-The Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory will be aware that the building trades in Darwin are heavily dependent upon government contracts. Is it a fact that the Government has frozen the letting of contracts to restore cyclone damaged Housing Commission homes in Darwin? Is it also a fact that no new contracts have been let since the present Government took office? If those are facts, will the Minister indicate when the damaged homes will be repaired, how long the tenants will have to remain in temporary accommodation and what arrangements will be made to cater for those in the building trades who look to government contracts for their livelihood? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Is it a fact that the Gunn Point prison farm in the Northern Territory has been forced to close down due to a shortage of  staff brought about by the Government's economy measures? If that is a fact, will the Minister advise where the 50 inmates previously housed at Gunn Point are at present and whether the shortage of staff poses any threat to security? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. No doubt the Minister has been advised that an independent member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has called on the Assembly to remain sitting until the Minister for the Northern Territory makes a statement concerning the availability or otherwise of loans for home builders. These low interest loans were to be made available to people in Darwin wishing to rebuild following cyclone Tracy. To relieve the uncertainty of people who have made arrangements for builders to commence work and who have arranged for bridging finance, and incidentally to assist the ailing building industry, will the Minister make a firm statement on the Government's intention in this matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. The Minister no doubt will be aware that  Mr Justice  Muirhead has again drawn attention to the inadequacy of the Fannie Bay gaol, calling it the worst institution of its type in Australia. Will the Minister give some indication of the progress of the Government's plans to replace the Fannie Bay gaol with a more appropriate institution? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Will the rail link to Alice Springs be broken for a period of at least four weeks; if so, will the Minister outline measures being taken to keep the people of Alice Springs and other centres, dependent on this link, supplied with perishables. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Has Gunn Point Prison Farm in the Northern Territory been forced to close due to a shortage of staff brought about by the Government's economy measures; if so, will the Minister advise where the fifty inmates previously housed at Gunn Point are at present and whether the shortage of staff poses any threat to security. 
Before I address myself to the motion let me through you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  congratulate our  President  on his election to that high office. Other speakers in this chamber have drawn attention to his courtesy and impartiality; I can add that his service on committee in the Northern Territory reinforces their statements. I welcome the opportunity to work under his direction and will be looking to him for guidance in the sessions to come. I congratulate  Senator Drake-Brockman  on being elected as  Chairman  of Committees and those other honourable senators who have been chosen to fill positions of responsibility in the chamber. I also extend my congratulations to those honourable senators who have already made their maiden speeches. It is obvious that each one brings considerable talent to this chamber and each one should make a significant contribution during his or her term of office. 
The first session of the Thirtieth Parliament will go down in history for a number of reasons; the events leading up to it, the stand taken by Labor during the opening ceremonies and the fact that for the first time in our history the two territories were represented in this chamber. Historians will record details of the struggle Labor had to win Senate representation for the territories and they will document the rejection of the Bill by this chamber, the Joint Sitting held to debate the issue and the subsequent appeals to the High Court by the 2 State Premiers. To introduce a lighter note, one might ask whether the traumatic birth pains were justified, whether the quadruplets were really worth the effort. I personally am reassured by the calibre of my 3 siblings and I certainly will make every effort during my time in this place to ensure that I am not found wanting. 
There was a good deal of discussion during the debate on the Senate (Representation of Territories) Act concerning the role of the Senate and whether or not it could still claim to be a States House. As a new senator I would certainly not attempt to define the role of the Senate but I am particularly attracted to a quotation from Quick and Garran where the authors speak of the Senate as being the vehicle 'to give them (the States) every facility for the advocacy of their peculiar and special interests, as well as for the ventilation and consideration of their grievances'. As a territory moving towards statehood, we certainly have peculiar and special problems, and it will be the task of my colleague  Senator Kilgariff  and myself to bring them forward in this chamber. Last year  Senator Kilgariff,  then  deputy  leader of the majority party in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, and his leader met with senior officers of the Northern Territory Branch of the Australian Labor Party at their request and assisted in the drafting of a letter to the then Minister seeking transfer of powers to the Assembly. I trust that this sort of relationship will continue and that at times Territory needs will transcent political boundaries and we will speak with one voice. Private discussions with the honourable senator and also with members of the Assembly encourage me to think that this will be so. We would then be filling the role of members of the States House as envisaged by the framers of our Constitution. 
Unlike his colleague from the States, the territory senator will be called upon to service his constituents in much the same way as a member in the other place. The population is not large, about 100 000, but spread as it is over approximately 1 400 000 square kilometres its needs cannot adequately be met by one member. Given the normal political climate of the Territory regardless of to which Party the member of the House of Representatives happens to belong to, roughly half the population feels that it is not being represented. It is an important and significant step forward to have territory representation in the Federal Parliament from both of the major parties. 
It is customary in a maiden speech to pay tribute to one's predecessors. This is obviously not possible in my case but mention might be made of 3 people from amongst all those who have fought for the constitutional development of the Northern Territory. I refer to Dick- now  Mr JusticeWard,  Jock Nelson and  Dr Rex  Patterson.  Mr Ward  served a record number of years in the Legislative Council and later the Legislative Assembly and on many occasions led delegations to Canberra seeking autonomy for the Territory.  Mr Nelson,  like his father before him, served as a member for the Northern Territory and fought for voting rights, an elected assembly and Senate representation. As to  Dr Patterson,  it might be said of him that he sacrificed his own political future by the conscientious way he handled his portfolio while responsible for the Territory. Territorians generally owe a debt of gratitude to these men and those who went before them. 
Other Opposition speakers in this debate have dealt effectively with the general and much of the specific detail of the Governor-General 's Speech. My task is to fill out further the picture by outlining areas of concern as they relate to the Territory. The past 3 years have seen a period of dramatic growth and achievement for the Northern Territory and we are anxious to make sure that none of the achievements are placed in jeopardy or the advances negated. Since the former Government assumed office in 1972 great forward steps have been taken in the field of constitutional development. We have achieved a fully elected Legislative Assembly, Senate representation and the development of local government in both European and Aboriginal communities. The present Government has set up a committee to investigate the transfer of powers to the Legislative Assembly. This committee, to be fully effective, must consider the staffing of positions created to service the functions passed to the Assembly. Consultations must be held with the Public Service associations to ensure not only that the Northern Territory Public Service attracts the best possible people but also that the rights of all public servants are protected. Free and open movement between the Australian Public Service and the Northern Territory Public Service, if only for the initial transition period, would seem to have many advantages. I understand that the attempt made by the previous Government to provide staff to service the members of the Assembly was frustrated by the requirements of the Public Service Board. It is important then that discussions be held with the Board so that arrangements can be made to second or appoint officers of appropriate level to provide the nucleus of a later expanded service. 
There has been a good deal of discussion about the granting of statehood to the Northern Territory. Honourable senators may recall that during the election campaign the caretaker Prime Minister visited Darwin and promised statehood within 5 years. This arbitrary figure was not well received by local members of his Party who, in evidence before the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory, had spoken of statehood being a possibility when the Territory had the population and development to support it. They suggested a population of about 250 000 and thought that this might be attained in 20 to 30 years. The GovernorGeneral's Speech introduced another note of caution and I feel that honourable senators need not fear the influx of 10 senators from the Northern Territory for some time yet. 
One of the most pressing tasks facing those responsible for the Territory is the rebuilding of Darwin, cruelly ravaged by cyclone Tracey just over 12 months ago. The former Government met the challenge of the moment by evacuating 36 000 people in 5 days and, with commendable support from the voluntary agencies, catering for their needs by organising emergency services, by establishing the Relief Trust Fund and, within a week of the cyclone, taking the decision to set up the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. Before the end of March 4000 damaged homes had been re-roofed and, where necessary, given temporary repairs to make them waterproof. At all stages the community was involved in planning the new Darwin, and citizens' action groups were sponsored and supported both in Darwin and elsewhere in Australia. 
But that is history. The task which lies ahead is to carry on the work which has been started. I have already expressed some concern over the freezing of contracts for the repair of damaged homes and the decision taken not to embark on new projects. The building trade is heavily dependent upon government contracts and if these are not forthcoming we could well see massive unemployment and an exodus of men whose expertise we can ill afford to lose. The Master Builders Association of the Northern Territory, a group which gave strong support to the present Government's campaign last year, has expressed grave concern. Its executive officer,  Mr M.  Elliott said in the  Northern Territory News  of February 26: 'There will be catastrophic consequences if the Government does not reverse some of its decisions '.  Mr Elliott  went on to say that the Government could not expect to turn off the tap for 6 months without some substantial ramifications developing. 
The situation has been compounded by the Government's freezing of low interest loans promised to people wishing to build their own homes. Some people are suffering extreme hardship because they have embarked on a program having been assured that they would get assistance. It is difficult to understand how a government committed to private enterprise can stand by and see building contractors go to the wall for the want of what is a fairly simple decision. A similar situation exists with the road making and bridge building companies. Unless work is forthcoming men will be stood down, equipment disposed of and experienced supervisors deployed elsewhere. This will mean that when funds are again available there will be no experienced work force ready to apply for contracts. We urge the Government to give careful consideration to this matter. 
As already indicated by my colleague,  Senator Kilgariff,  the cattle industry in the Northern Territory has been hard hit in recent years by a collapse of the world market. In response to requests for assistance the former Government gave generous support to the industry in the form of financial assistance to the Katherine meat works and low interest loans to pastoralists. There is an urgent need to develop overseas markets and provide adequate transport facilities to enable the producer to get his beasts from the station to the consumer at minimum cost. Research is needed not only in pasture improvement but also in management techniques. Work already started should be continued and expanded. 
The mining industry is the major contributor to the income of the Northern Territory. Again my colleague,  Senator Kilgariff,  spoke of the problems within the industry, blaming them on nationalisation and suggesting that taxation deductions would need to be reintroduced before the industry could again become viable. I have no knowledge of the nationalisation of any mines in the Northern Territory but certainly our Party maintains that the exploitation of Australian resources should be carried out by companies that are predominantly Australian-owned. We make no apology for that. We could also see the Government taking out some shares in a company if other investors could not raise sufficient funds to provide the equity. Many Australians are reluctant to subsidise the activities of foreign exploration companies, particularly when they hear stories of the abuse of the system.  Senator Kilgariff  spoke of the Territory becoming the warehouse for the rest of Australia. I support that view. It is commendable. What I fear is that the Territory may become a hole in the ground to satisfy foreign investors. That must not be allowed to happen. 
Discussions at the moment, of course, centre around the rich uranium fields which have been discovered in the Northern Territory. Those of us who have regard for the environment were encouraged by the assurance given in the other place that mining would not proceed until after  Mr Justice  Fox had completed his investigations. 
Mining should be undertaken only when we are confident that the waste material can be disposed of safely and that those involved in the extraction or treatment of the ore suffer no ill effects from exposure to it. If those guarantees cannot be given mining should not be undertaken and the Government can be assured that there will be massive and concerted resistance should it attempt to do so. 
In the past few years support has been given for the development of smaller properties. There are good markets locally for vegetables and tropical fruits. I urge the Government to continue support for smaller producers through not only research stations and advisory services but also financial assistance, especially for those prepared to join together in co-operatives. Local production of foodstuffs would solve many of the difficulties faced, particularly during the wet season. 
Prior to 1972 government policy in respect of Aboriginal Australians was to assist them to become facsimiles of their European counterparts. For the past 3 years the emphasis has been on helping the Aborigine to establish his own identity and assisting him to implement the decisions which he himself has made. It is generally agreed that to establish his identity man needs the security of his own land and his own language. In what was probably its greatest contribution in this area the Labor Government set up machinery to give Aboriginal people control of their own land. It is gratifying to learn that the present Government supports the Land Rights Bill and intends to proceed with it. It was envisaged by the former Government that the Bill would be referred to a committee of this chamber. It is vital that this be done as there are a number of matters which need further investigation and discussion. I refer here particularly to the clause dealing with the 2-kilometre limit and access to fishing grounds by non-Aboriginal Australians. 
A suggestion has been made that the Land Rights Bill should be enacted by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly rather than the National Parliament. I must report that the majority of people to whom I spoke on this matterthey were mainly Aboriginal people- would prefer to see the Bill proceed through the National Parliament. A number of reasons were advanced for that decision, many of which I could not repeat without being cautioned under the provisions of standing order 418. The general feeling is that the Bill should be referred to a committee and in due course should be presented as planned initially. 
The success of the bi-lingual program introduced by the former Government is so well known that I need not elaborate on it here. However, mention might be made of the support given to the preservation of Aboriginal culture in both the Northern Territory and the States. I refer to the programs developed in Aboriginal schools, the introduction of Aboriginal culture into the curricula of European schools and the support given to theatre and dance groups. It is to be hoped that the Government will continue with the implementation of the Woodward report and the Gibbs report, keeping to the spirit of their recommendations. Without due care the Aboriginal people could well fall back to the feudal system of bygone days. The Government's intention to 'promote self-management and selfsufficiency' is applauded. Let us hope that the former Government's other enlightened policies, particularly those relating to law enforcement and community development, will also be retained and pursued. 
Territorians will be pleased to learn that the Government believes that an education system must be based on equality of opportunity. They will interpret this to mean that the Darwin Community College, the transitional colleges and the SEBAC program introduced over the last 3 years will continue to be supported. They will accept the present cutbacks as temporary measures only and will look for that equality which is promised in the Governor-General's Speech. Some honourable senators may not be aware that the Government's economic measures have forced the Darwin Community College to limit the courses it can offer this year. In the general interest field of studies dozens of people were turned away hours after enrolment opened because the College did not have the staff to mount the courses called for. In the vital area of teacher training many Territory teachers wishing to upgrade their qualifications are unable to do so because of staff shortages. Many local apprentices have to be sent interstate because training is not available for the same reason. Educational facilities for children in the Territory have improved considerably over the past few years. I make a strong plea that any economies which must be imposed do not lower that quality of service which was being offered at the end of last year. 
I am particularly concerned that the highly successful home liaison officers who gave such valuable service during 1975 have not at this stage been re-appointed. They are badly needed particularly as so many children are living in temporary accommodation. There is a need for more special teaching aides to support the Department's policy on educating the physically or mentally handicapped in the normal classrooms. If these officers are not appointed the whole program will be put at risk and the children concerned, as well as the others in the classroom, will not receive appropriate education. 
While the term 'unique' is perhaps overworked it is important to realise that, as I indicated earlier, the Territory has special problems, special needs and a situation that is different from that in the States. An across the board decision may well bring special hardships to students and teachers particularly in remote areas. I give but one example- that of travel. In southern States travel may well mean little more than the desirable, but perhaps not essential, movement of senior officers interstate or interregion to discuss common problems. Travel in the Territory means the movement of teachers to outlying areas. It means the provisions of gas to a remote school. It means the movement of special advisers to assist teachers who are isolated from their peers and tackling problems which are, without a doubt, unique. The vote for travel in the Northern Territory division is less than 0.3 of 1 per cent of the total appropriation. Since this amount has been frozen, 60 advisers with their support staff are sitting virtually idle, occupied but not doing the job for which they were employed, at a cost perhaps of $500,000. Surely this is false economy. As one senior officer put it: You have to pay the bus fare to get to the bank'. Let us not cut out the bus fare. Let us have a little more understanding of the situation and some realistic decisions. 
If the present Government wishes to make a significant contribution in the field of education it might look to the area of vocational training of Aboriginal and other rural youth. The whole system of post-primary education of Aboriginal children is in danger of collapse because of the lack of both employment opportunities and appropriate training. Some ground work has been done and some guidelines set. The challenge is there to be taken up. The Government's stated intention of continuing financial assistance to voluntary welfare organisations will be welcomed by the Young Men's Christian Association, the Young Women's Christian Association, the Northern Territory Council for Social Services and other agencies at present operating in the Territory. We would welcome assurances that Australian Assistance Plan funding will be continued. Three regional councils for social development have been established in the Territory, and each is at a critical stage of growth. Unlike their sister councils in more populous areas the Northern Territory councils rely heavily on Federal funds, and if these are withdrawn the councils would not be able to offer the assistance which they are providing at the present time. 
My colleague,  Senator Kilgariff,  in his maiden speech likened the Territory to an adolescent. The analogy is a good one. The Territory is young, fast growing and full of potential. Like most adolescents it is impatient to stand on its own feet and make its own decisions. The future of the Territory will depend upon the help given to it at this particular stage. A great deal has been achieved over the past 3 years, many initiatives have been taken and many worthwhile projects commenced. While it is accepted that, as the Governor-General reminds us, 'decisions have to be made', my plea is that the Government will recognise the 'peculiar and special' problems faced by the Territory and push forward along the path blazed out for it by its predecessors. I thank honourable senators for their indulgence. 
-Did the Minister for Social Security recently state that people disadvantaged by floods in Queensland, northern New South Wales and Central Australia would receive special benefit payments? Did the Minister state also that it was not proposed that any direct compensation payments would be made by the Commonwealth to flood victims in Queensland and New South Wales? Do I take it from the Minister's statement therefore that direct compensation for personal injury and loss of property for Central Australian flood victims will be made by the Commonwealth? 
I seek leave to move that the Senate take note of these reports. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. The  Canberra Times  of today's date carries a story claiming that the Australian Government has cut or deferred capital works programs in the Northern Territory totalling more than $150m. Will the Minister confirm or deny the claim? Will he explain how the economy of the Territory is to be maintained if the claim is true, given the fact that it depends so much on the viability of the building industry and the fact that 85 per cent of the work carried out by the industry is directly funded by the Government? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. It concerns the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and its activities in the Northern Territory. Is it a fact that tenders are being called for a company to take over the exploration activities to which the Commission is committed by its agreements with certain mining companies? If this is a fact and no tenderer comes forward to take over this work, how will it be done? If there is a successful tenderer, what will happen to (a) the buildings and equipment at present in Alice Springs and Darwin; (b) personnel currently employed by the Commission in the Northern Territory; and (c) the data at present being held by the Commission following its research over the years? 
I welcome the opportunity to speak on this Bill. In common with my colleagues, I find nothing in the Bill to which I take exception. My complaint would be that it does not go far enough. There are a number of comments which I feel should be made about the Commonwealth Teaching Service and the way in which it is operating at present. I take the opportunity to do so at this time. 
It might be appropriate, perhaps, to give a little background to the Commonwealth Teaching Service. Honourable senators will recall that the decision to establish the Service was taken in 1970. The reason for this action was that South Australia had indicated that its teachers would be moving out of service in the Northern Territory within 5 years. That valuable service, which has been referred to already, would no longer be available. In February of 1972, the then Minister for Education and Science introduced the Commonwealth Teaching Service Bill. That legislation was passed and assented to by May 1972. The purpose of the Bill was quite clear. It was to provide teachers for schools where the Commonwealth had some responsibility, whether that responsibility was in Territories on the mainland or Territories overseas, or in the States. 
Honourable senators will recall that the Australian Council for Educational Research was approached and asked to give some help in the setting up of the Commonwealth Teaching Service. That Council was asked specifically to suggest the organisation of this Service, how it might be structured. It was asked to suggest a career structure for the people taking part in the Service and to suggest an appropriate salary scale.  Dr Neal  from the University of Alberta, formerly from Western Australia, and  Dr Radford  from the Australian Council for Educational Research were the 2 people chosen to prepare this report. 
When he was introducing the report the Minister said that he saw the main purpose as being to provide teachers for the 2 systems in the Northern Territory. Let me refer to the comment in this report. In introducing the Bill, the Minister said: 
A first purpose of this Bill will be to make immediate provision for Commonwealth staffing of the 2 -school system of the Northern Territory. 
He also looked ahead to the time when the Commonwealth Teaching Service would include:  all teachers employed in Commonwealth operated schools in mainland Australia - and might also include: 
. teachers in other schools, such as a number of teachers in Papua New Guinea and preschool teachers from the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 

 Dr Neal and  Dr Radford  summed up by saying: 
It is clear therefore that the Service will provide for both systems in the Northern Territory. Any recommendations we make must therefore have this in mind. 
I remind honourable senators of the 2 systems that were operating in the Northern Territory at that time. One was the Community School System. That was South Australian controlled, funded by the Commonwealth and headed by a senior officer from South Australia. The other system was the Aboriginal Education Branch of the Welfare Division of the Department of the Interior. That was headed by an officer of that Department, who was  Mr Gallagher.  It would be of interest to senators to know that a short time ago he was made a Fellow of the Australian College of Education for his work in this field. 
This Aboriginal Education Branch looked after Aboriginal schools, on settlements, on pastoral properties in remote areas, post primary education, Aboriginal colleges and Aboriginal preschools. Honourable senators will know of the outstanding work done by Joyce Gilbert, where the highest percentage of any group of children was attending preschool. The Branch also was responsible for European preschools. 
In 1972 a decision was taken to combine the 2 systems. I feel that the reason for that decision was pretty straightforward. Firstly, it was a natural development that the two should come together, so that there might be more effective utilisation of the resources available. The second reason might have been that with South Australia going, some structure would be needed to organise education in the Northern Territory. The third reason was to provide that equality of education which Labor saw as being necessary. 
Honourable senators may recall that the SEBAC report indicated that quite a deal of money would need to be spent to bring Aboriginal schools up to the same standard as those operating for European children. I have said before in this place that the Territory has unique problems in education. This has been referred to again today. Basically, the problems relate to the number of Aboriginal students in school and the way in which they are spread over the Northern Territory. I again quote from the Neal-Radford report which states: 
A staff organisation tailored exclusively to the community schools of the Territory might not adequately serve the needs of schools for Aborigines. And what might suit the Northern Territory as a whole might not be adequate for the Australian Capital Territory with its proximity, for example, to a concentration of professional resources available at short notice to give specialised advice. 
Such is the background against which the Commonwealth Teaching Service was set up. The first criticism- if I may use that word- which I make of the CTS as it is operating at the present time is of its inflexibility. Despite the recommendations of the Neal-Radford report, the system was developed pretty much with the Australian Capital Territory schools in mind. The Teachers Federation was involved in the discussions, which is a good thing; but, for some reason into which I cannot go into at this stage, the Northern Territory seemed to miss out. The system was not geared to the needs of the Northern Territory. 
One of the problems with the inflexibility of the system is that the Service insists that 3 years of training is necessary before a teacher may take his place in the Service. I would be the last to suggest that we ought to dilute the quality of our teachers. Certainly, I would not wish to do that. We want the best possible teachers in the Northern Territory. But I make the point that special needs call for special people. We have opportunities for music specialists in the Territory. We have positions for audio-visual people. We have positions for publications people. We have positions for head office personnel. All the people in these positions are required to have 3 years of teacher training. This seems unnecessary. One assumes that we could get a person with good qualifications in music and with perhaps one year of training who could do the job of a music specialist. Certainly in the audio-visual field we could get people with a lot of background in that area but not with 3 years of teacher training. 
I make the point to the Minister that perhaps special needs call for special qualifications. These qualifications might be academic or based on experience. If specialist people find that they will have difficulty getting promotion within the field, then we will find difficulty in recruiting people into these positions. 
In the Aboriginal situation I think there is a need to give special consideration to people who have particular abilities in working with Aboriginal people. Honourable senators will know that there are some people who, although not fully qualified, have developed a good empathy with Aboriginal people. They have been able to work with them in their homeland centres and on the outstations. Such people could do a lot for the Aborigines. But they cannot be employed because they are not fully 3-year trained. I shall speak about this matter a little later when I talk about assessment. I make the point here that special needs have been accepted. We have the precedent which was established last year. Honourable senators may recall that when the refugees left Timor quite a number of them came to the Northern Territory. Basically, they were Timorese and Chinese people. The Commissioner approved the use of 'teachers'; that is, people who had worked in Timor with the Chinese and the Timorese but who would not normally be accepted as teachers. We were able to set up a school to meet the needs of those people. So the precedent has been established for the use of teachers with what I call special qualifications. 
The second criticism I make- I hesitate to use the word 'criticism'- relates to another facet and that is the quality of graduates coming into the Territory. I make the point very strongly that the people who are coming are well trained in the usual sense of the word. They have had 3 years training at a college of advanced education or something of the sort down south; but their training is not appropriate to the needs of the Territory, particularly in respect of Aboriginal schools. I shall give 2 examples: Very little work is done on English as a second language in the average training college. Unfortunately, very little work is done in Aboriginal studies. Both of these areas are vitally important if we are to have people who can be effective in the small school situation. Even in the bilingual schools we need people who are able to teach English as a second language. In all schools- whether they are Aboriginal schools or community schools, as we still call them- we need people with a knowledge of Aboriginal culture and with an understanding of the Aboriginal people. Not only do we have many Aboriginal people attending the community schools but also the oilier children should have a good background of the Aboriginal culture which is so rich. I suggest to the Minister that the Authority needs more say in the training programs. I go a stage further and suggest that the training should be carried out in the Northern Territory rather than in the southern States. If we cannot get this, then at least the Authority should place the students when they come out to do practice teaching. There is little point in putting people into a European school in Sydney for practice teaching if they are going to work in an Aboriginal community. I think that point has been made. 
It is a great pity that the Government's economy measures mean that the community college is not able to cope with some of those teachers who wish to extend their training. That would be a good starting point for the full training of teachers in the Territory. I certainly support the statement which the Minister made in the Territory last week that we need more Aboriginal teachers in the sense of teachers of Aboriginal extraction. I add that we need better trained Aboriginal teachers. How do we get them? We get them by having better facilities, by having in the Territory a good college or training institution which can do the job. The Minister will know that some excellent work is being done at Batchelor, in the Aboriginal teacher education centre. Of course we need better facilities. As the Minister supports the need for these, we may see Frances Creek going ahead in the next 12 months. I think the Minister knows, as some honourable senators know, that there is an excellent site at Frances Creek. There is good accommodation and, best of all, it is very cheap, without the need for much repair work. I strongly recommend to the Minister that we look towards Frances Creek as being the centre for the training of Aboriginal teachers. I feel that there are 2 possibilities there. Being isolated as it is, we could have a complete campus or we could have an open town. This is a matter for decision. It will not matter much either way. I favour the closed campus. Let us hope that we will see that college being established next year. 
While we are talking about the college we must think of the quality of the entrant and the qualifications which he brings to the training college. In the past we have talked a lot about Aboriginality as being one of the basic qualifications. I certainly would not change that. We need people who have that qualification. But I hope to see more and more of our young trainee teachers coming in with a better standard on leaving primary and secondary schools. This ties in with comments which have already been made about the need to upgrade our post-primary schools. I shall have a little more to say about that in a moment. 
The third area at which I look is assessment. The procedures which work for assessment at the present time were developed by the Acting Commissioner and the Teachers Federation. The authorities did not take part in the setting up of assessment procedures. I think it is a great pity that that happened. Although this occurred in the past, I think the comment is worth making that the authority, with its inspectorial system, had a lot of expertise which it could have brought to bear on working out the assessment procedures. Nevertheless, for some reason, the Commissioner and the Federation diverged from the Neal-Radford report. They went away from it not only in assessment but also in introducing a 2-pronged corridor. Radford and Neal had suggested one. This reflected the views of southern Australians about inspectors being "monsters". It overlooked the fact that this was not so in the Northern Territory. Anyone who has worked in the system knows that the inspectors who worked in the Territory had a different relationship with the people in the field. The relationship was on a first name basis. The inspector was certainly a colleague to the teachers in the full sense of the word. In most cases he was a friend. He certainly was their mentor. He assisted them not only with their work but also with their professional development. 
The present system, with peer assessment, is very costly. The Minister will know how the schools are spread out through the Northern Territory. If the assessment is to be done properly, the  chairman  and 2 other members must visit the candidate twice, if not 3 times, during the year. With schools scattered all over the Northern Territory, this means cost not only in money but also in resources. I refer to the resources of the people who are being taken out of their schools to do this job of assessment. I put it to the Minister that many people working in the Territory have extreme doubts about whether the present assessment system is any better than the one which operated before in respect of the job that it is trying to do. At least one could say that an exhaustive review is needed. One was promised 2 years ago. I suggest to the Minister that we ought to go ahead with that review as soon as possible. An interim review was conducted last year but this was not enough and more needs to be done. 
I will dwell here for a moment on the problem facing the people in the non-teaching situation. As recently as last weekend I was told by the  chairman  of an assessment committee of how he sat on 2 assessment panels. In one case he gave a report which he classed as perfect, whatever that is. He and the 2 members of the panel wrote up the candidate in the highest terms. The candidate was not promoted. In the second case he, as  chairman,  submitted a minority report opposing promotion and the candidate was promoted. This happened simply because in the first case the person was in a non-teaching position. That person was a highly competent officer whom I know very well. We must find some way to overcome this situation. It is unfair not only to the people in the positions; it is unfair also to the Education Authority in the Northern Territory. Obviously, if people are treated in this way they will not be attracted to the head office to work as specialists. I ask the Minister to look very closely at the possibility of reviewing the situation in this area. 
-Perhaps we could form a committee and talk about them. I would be quite happy to throw my little bit of expertise into the ring. I wish to refer to the fourth aspect of the matter, namely, the power of the Commissioner. The role of the Commissioner has developed over the years perhaps beyond the spirit of the Act. I stress the word 'perhaps'. I see the Commonwealth Teaching Service as a recruitment, assessment and promotion organisation. Perhaps some of the Acting Commissioners might have seen the Commission's role as going a little beyond this and as becoming involved in the day-to-day running of the Education Authority. In fact, I think in some cases the Commissioner saw himself as the authority. 
The second half of the analogy is whether the Commissioner is too involved in matters which should be the responsibility of the authority. Perhaps we should look at the authority and clarify its position. Let me give one example which perhaps will illustrate the point. The Commissioner's office for some time has been preparing a handbook or manual on conditions of service. It is now into its fourth draft and the Education Authority has not yet seen the document. Yet it will be the authority which will be implementing the conditions and overseeing them. 
The authority surely must have the freedom to move teachers, to determine staffing needs, provisionally promote, and so on. In other words, it must have the authority to run the service. It must be accountable and it must be responsible. 
I think that it is a great pity that the Advisory Committee on Education in the Northern Territory was not proceeded with. I await the Minister's making his position clear on that matter later in the parliamentary session. My position is certainly quite clear. I favour autonomy for the Northern Territory. I think that we must have as much decision making as we can passed out through the sub-committees of ACENT until we have our own authority working in the Northern Territory as exists in the Australian Capital Territory. The pattern is there. I think that it can be followed. The sooner the Northern Territory becomes a Une in the Budget, the better. I certainly look forward to the time when we can cut the umbilical from Canberra and use the expertise which is available within the Territory. 
The last point I would like to deal with is that of vocational training. I think that this is most appropriate since the Bill is about technical teachers. The lack of motivation within the schools is the greatest problem facing Aboriginal education at the present time. This has its effect right down through the system. The young Aboriginal lad or girl of ten or eleven years looks to the end of his or her schooling and sees no employment available. Education has little relevance for them. Now that the home centre or outstation movement has been established, it is an ideal time to look at both employment opportunities, which I realise do not come within the province of the Minister's portfolio, and at vocational training, which certainly does. There is almost no vocational training available in the Territory at the present time. The centre at Batchelor has been closed down. The only work that is being done there is teacher training. As is the case in other areas of the community, that training involves only a small percentage of the people who are available. I am convinced that the officers in the Territory are waiting only for some guidance and some leadership to establish sound vocational training. 
Honourable senators will know that Aboriginal people make excellent tradesmen. I do not have to go into details in relation to that point. 
Honourable senators will know of examples from their own experiences. But there are problems in the training. The young Aboriginal lad or girl will not leave home not only because of the cultural ties which keep them there but also because they do not want to move into the city and face the problems that they see there. If they do move to the city- this has been established in the past in the Northern Territory- they find great difficulty in seeing a transfer from the skills which they learned in town to what they see back home. For example, an Aboriginal youth might learn to lay bricks in the town. When he gets back home, he does not see the same situation. Psychologically this should not be so. But it has been demonstrated over the years that there is this great difficulty in transferring. Many of the young people moving to the city find that the problems and temptations which face them there are too great for them and they succumb. Their training goes down the drain. I am sure that this can be reinforced by many other honourable senators. Aborigines have difficulty in relating to people they do not know. It takes Aborigines quite some time to settle into the training situation in the centre. 
I suggest that the answer is very simple. If the young Aboriginal people cannot come to the training, we should take the training to them. There is nothing new in that. It has been suggested already in the Stephen report and in certain inter-departmental committee reports of which the Minister would have seme knowledge. I will explain the scheme very briefly. The material to be taught is broken down into units, whether it happens to be material for the training of a mechanic, a carpenter or a builder. The body of knowledge is broken down into small units so that each unit can be handled in two or three weeks. The trainees then will live at their own settlement or perhaps travel just to the neighbouring settlement to be trained. The training will be done where the Aborigines live or in an area they know quite well nearby. 
The trainer, who would be a new person to enter the teaching force, would then visit to present module one, module two or module three of the course. He would do that work on the settlement. He would arrive with his van equipped with whatever he needed and train the people on the centre. In between visits, the trainees would work for the local tradesmen and reinforce what they had learnt from the trainer. The training, in every case, would be related to the needs of the community. Surely that is essential. I would see the training resulting in certification of some sort. Perhaps it would be a skilled trade training certificate or some certificate which would be recognised and accepted not only in the Aboriginal community but also in the urban areas. I make a strong appeal to the Minister to make school more meaningful and to give dignity to the Aboriginal people in this way. This matter is of particular interest to me. 
In conclusion, I commend the Bill for its provisions but again say that it does not go far enough. There are a number of aspects which should be looked at. I have tried to enumerate them today. The needs of the Education Authority in the Northern Territory are not being met at the present time. They are not being serviced by the Commonwealth Teaching Service in the way it was originally intended they would be. I ask the Minister to consider the matters which I have raised. We on this side of the Senate pledge any assistance which we can give to ensure that all children of the Northern Territory obtain that equality of education which is the present Government's avowed aim. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that as a result of complaints made by a number of citizens in the Northern Territory an inquiry is being held into postal services to remote areas of that Territory? If this is a fact, will the Minister give an indication whether any decisions have been reached and what these are? If it is a fact and no decisions have been reached will the Minister indicate when they can be expected? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The Minister will be aware that all capital cities with the exception of Darwin are included in the computations of and are given a consumer price index. Over the years civic leaders, employee and employer organisations and statisticians have asked that Darwin be included with the other capital cities. Recent discussions in Darwin have once again highlighted the need for a consumer price index for Darwin as an objective base for wage negotiations for both employee and employer. Will the Minister raise this matter with the Treasurer and ask that arrangements be made to compile a consumer price index for Darwin as a matter of urgency? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. The Minister will appreciate that parents and teachers are concerned about the fate of the commissions set up by the Labor Government, particularly the Schools Commission. It is understood that the operation of these commissions is being investigated by  Sir Harry  Bland. Will the Minister indicate whether, as part of the system of open government favoured by the present Government, the findings of the Bland Committee will be made public and subjected to public debate before being implemented? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The Minister will no doubt be aware that substantial cuts have been made in the budget of the Northern Land Council which has been told to operate on a budget of $40,000 until 30 June 1976. This figure is $50,000 short of the original budget and $20,000 short of the figure negotiated and agreed upon when the Minister,  Mr Viner,  was in the Northern Territory during late February. Will the Minister advise whether the Northern Land Council will be given additional funds for the rest of this financial year or whether the substantial cuts indicate that the Minister does not support the work of the Council and agrees with the Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly,  Dr Letts,  that it will be redundant when the Legislative Assembly takes over the implementation of the Land Rights Bill? 

 - Mr President, like my colleagues on this side of the Senate, I support the States Grants (Universities) Bill. It is rather fortunate, as far as I am concerned, that the Senate is debating cognately a number of Bills dealing with education as I wish to address myself particularly to the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Amendment Bill in that group of Bills. As I have mentioned before, following Quick and Garran, I see the role of a Territory senator as being the advocate or having the advocacy of peculiar and special interests. Certainly technical and further education is a particular interest of the Northern Territory, because we have so little of it. The situation in the Northern Territory in this respect is of specific concern, so I will address myself to the Bill dealing with technical and further education. Might I suggest that I look briefly at the present situation and the problems that we face now and then make some recommendations. 
The background to the situation in the Northern Territory at present is that prior to 1972, as honourable senators will know, we had 2 systems of education operating within the Northern Territory. The technical and further education component for the Europeans, if I can use that word, was handled by South Australia, funded by the Commonwealth. This was mainly at the Darwin Adult Education Centre, which obviously was centred in Darwin. That was about the only centre in the Territory. At this stage, I wish to pay a tribute to the then principal of the Darwin Adult Education Centre,  Mr Harold  Garner, an educator and innovator of the first order, whose contribution to education in the Northern Territory has not been adequately recognised. 

 Mr Garner was responsible for developing technical and further education in the Northern Territory, that is, in the Darwin area. He had very inadequate buildings in which to operate. He had a very small staff. Yet, he was able with the facilities at his disposal to introduce excellent technical and further education on a limited basis. At that stage, the Darwin Adult Education Centre provided tertiary tutorials. These were from Queensland. Honourable senators will know that assistance was given to Queensland at that time to provide tutorial assistance and excellent correspondence courses for the people in the Territory. Many honourable senators will know also that, at that time, the External Studies Department arranged for its professor, in many cases, and certainly its senior lecturers, to visit the Northern Territory and assist those people who were studying externally. 
The Adult Education Centre provided apprenticeship training and trade training and, that very important aspect for an area as isolated as Darwin is, the recreation and creative or leisure time activities. I am referring here to the hobbies courses, the drama courses, the yoga courses, the choirs and so on. As well as this- this is part of  Mr Garner's  genius, I think- he managed to introduce also diploma courses and other courses called tor by both the Public Service and private enterprise. If a group said that it wanted to have a course running, he would arrange for this to be done. He also arranged for diplomas for those people who could study with institutes in other States. A good many of the accountants at present operating in the Northern Territory would have been trained at the Adult Education Centre. 
The other side of the coin is the Aboriginal situation. This was handled basically by the Social Welfare Division of the Department of the Interior. Let me elaborate a little on what was offering prior to 1972. Most of the vocational or technical training was given in the form of onthejob training. This was where an Aboriginal or a group of Aboriginals would be attached to the carpenter or the mechanic or some other worker on the settlement or on the mission. The Aboriginal would get his training from this person. Many problems were associated with this sort of training. In many cases, the mechanic or the carpenter was far too busy to provide any training. He had too many jobs in front of him. There were too many cars or too many trucks broken down. So, he was too busy. 
Not only this, but also he was not able even with the best of intentions to give the sort of education that was needed. He had not been trained as an instructor. He had been trained as a mechanic or as a carpenter. So, he was not able, as I say, with the best of intentions to do much for the Aboriginals in the area. He had a lack of material in front of him. He was not able to call on modular units or any sort of programmed learning which would enable him to teach the people mechanics or carpentry. Often there was no commitment on the part of the students. This is a point that we have discussed many times. I have no doubt that honourable senators have raised it here before. For some reason that we found very difficult to pinpoint, quite often the student was quite happy to become the toolbag carrier and was not particularly interested in learning to become a qualified person. 
The vocational training courses that were offered prior to 1972 provided some excellent courses for nursing assistants and for teaching assistants, but they just about stopped there. I have mentioned already in my maiden speech some of the problems faced by the young people who undertook this type of training. They found difficulty in transferring the skills which they had learnt in town. There was once again the difficulty of motivation. They were not willing to travel or to move into the areas where the training was available. 
There was another facility that was operating prior to 1972. That was operated by the Aboriginal Education Branch. That was known simply as Adult Education. It comes well within the definition of technical and further education. Various courses were offered to the people out on the missions and settlements including general education, literacy courses and leisure activities. But once again the problem arose that apart from the teachers the rest of the staff were not trained in the art of instruction. Obviously the teachers were limited in what they could do in the way of adult education. There was another complication. This was that at night both students and instructors were tired. As  Senator Kilgariff  will tell honourable senators, in the Centre it is very difficult to leave one's fire on a cool winter's night and move up to the school or to the shop to get some training. Central courses were offered, mainly in the area of leadership. The courses which were offered in leadership by this particular branch were most successful and filled a great need for the Aboriginal people at that time. That was the picture prior to 1 972. 
With the amalgamation of the 2 departments in 1972, there were certain changes. The most significant one I suppose, was the setting up of the Darwin Community College. I wish to read from the Ordinance which outlines the functions of the Darwin Community College. It is in these terms: 
The functions of the College are: 
To conduct an institution for the provision of Darwin and other such parts of the Northern Territory as the College considers necessary or desirable of education and training of such kinds as the Council with the approval of the Minister determines or as the Minister requires; 
To make assessments from time to time of the kinds, fields and levels of education and training that in its opinion should be provided by the College to meet the educational needs of the Northern Territory. 
The College has power to do all things that are necessary or convenient to be done in or in connection with the performance of its functions. 
So, the College was set up and virtually took over the duties of the Adult Education Centre, and expanded them. 
Again, university tutorials through people from Queensland were arranged, as were diplomate and associated courses, and the College established courses of its own. For example, the Department of the Northern Territory indicated that it would like some welfare officers trained. It threw this matter to the Community College for it to organise a welfare officer course for the Department. So, this was arranged and organised and the College had graduates in the first and second years of the welfare officer course. The College also presented trade and apprenticeship courses. The trade course followed basic standards but provided one innovation in that an 18-weeks bricklaying course asked for by the Master Builders Association was available. The provision of such a course ran perhaps a little contrary to the normal apprenticeship course in bricklaying. The College had leisure and creative activities, the same course as the old Adult Education Centre provided. It produced short courses for any of the local groups or local departments on demand. 
The Department of Education expanded its Aboriginal education centre. This is perhaps one of the significant features of the Northern Territory's contribution. The Department appointed Aboriginal adult educators who were Europeans but who worked in the Aboriginal education field. They set the level for these people at grade 2 or band 2. Many honourable senators know the level of band 2. These educators were given Aboriginal teaching assistants to work with them. The job of the adult educator was to get out into the Aboriginal communities, whether they be missions or settlements, to identify the needs, to suggest to the groups some particular needs, and then to arrange courses for them. In addition to this, they were devising programs with the assistance of 3 band 3 officers who made up courses for every settlement and mission which required them, produced such learning materials as audio-visual aids and so on, and introduced something quite new to the Territory, the roving 'tech' instructor, who moved around the communities giving specific assistance. The program that started this movement off was an outboard motor maintenance course. It does not sound very important to honourable senators that Aboriginal people should have an outboard motor maintenance course. They should remember that the Aboriginal people who are having to use these units either for leisure or for their business, such as fishing, in many cases have no idea how to maintain them and would forget to put oil in the motor, check the plugs or do whatever else is required. 
-The community identified the need and the Education Department met the need. 
-That is right. I will come back to that later. I think the question relates to the important involvement of the community in any decision-making in education. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs, for its part, decided to move away seeing that other people were taking over certain responsibilities. The Department saw a new role for itself in the matter of setting policy and it saw other  departments  as having the job of carrying out whatever was needed. The Department of Labor set up a committee to investigate vocational training and technical education, not technical and further education but within the field. 
I think it might be of interest to the Senate if I have a word about the Stephen Committee, as it was called, a committee which investigated technical training needed for Aboriginal people. On the committee was an assistant secretary from the Department of Labor, Miss Stephen, for whom the committee was named, a representative from the Department of Education and 2 representatives from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It is interesting that members of this group found as they moved around the communities that the old men were unhappy to see the young people go away. They gave many reasons for this. They said that they would lose control of the people and that they would not be able to bring pressure of the old laws upon the people. They said that the young people moving away would learn bad habits. They said that the girls if they left would get into trouble. But basically, underneath was the thought that they wanted the group or clan, whatever one wants to call it, to stay together and to learn skills which could then be used in the community and not outside of the community. 
It is interesting that the young people in many cases accepted what had been said but in some cases- I think it was quite a significant groupsaid that they did not really care what the old fellows said and that they would like to go into town for training. I would like to raise an interesting point here. The group found- many of the rest of us have found also- that Aboriginal young people tend not to take a job but rather to work with a particular person. In other words a young man will not say that he wants to be a carpenter, a mechanic or something of the sort, but he will say. 'I would like to work with that man'. 
While this has advantages in the settlement it has many disadvantages when one thinks in terms of training because the young man will not train with someone else. 
After looking at all the training that was available in the Territory, the Stephen report suggested on site training or near on site training- I have mentioned this already- where a person who lived at Yuendumu could train at Yuendumu or could train at Papunya as long as the training site was in his own area. Members of the Committee saw the young people being employed by the community, in garages, in the building trade and in whatever jobs that were there. They saw the trainers. I have already mentioned in this chamber that trainers would visit and give instruction on modular techniques. They saw the tradesman as reinforcing training in between visits of the trainer. Let me come back to  Senator Baume  's point. The technical instructor who was on the community would give additional assistance in between the visits of the trainer. He would give some sort of theory training- although I do not like to use the word theory'- the book work that went with the trade training. I would like to come back and perhaps later talk about that. 
Where are we at the moment? This is a point I would like to have a look at. The Darwin Community College cannot adequately meet the needs of the community. It cannot fill the role for which it has been established. There are a number of reasons for this. The College services only the main centres of Darwin, Alice Springs and Nhulunbuy, and a few courses are conducted in Katherine. With the number of staff available at present the College cannot offer the courses that are being called for. Again we come back to  Senator Baume  's point. The community of Darwin set up the needs for the Darwin Community College. A council was established to say exactly what sort of technical and further education was needed in the Territory, and the Darwin Community College was the result. Right from the beginning it was realised that in many cases the classes might be small. Obviously if people wanted something specialised and we had somebody who could offer it, the classes could be down as low as one or two people. This was accepted because the College saw its role as meeting the needs of the Darwin community and not forcing the people to move away. 
As a result of the present economy measures the teaching staff of the Northern Territory cannot upgrade their qualifications. I have mentioned this already. It is particularly unfortunate because the teachers need their qualifications to get their promotion and obviously the students need the advantage of better trained teachers. Many of the apprentices cannot get the sort of training they need and have to move interstate. One of the aspects of the apprenticeship training is that the sort of training that the Apprenticeship Board wants to offer cannot be provided by the College because the apprentices have to fit in either with block release or day release or whatever suits the staff position at the College at the time. There is no alternative available for those people for whom either the block release or the day release does not suit. The training cannot meet the demands of the community in that vital area of leisure and creative activity. I think I have already mentioned in this place that within one and a half to two hours of enrolments being commenced some of the courses were completely booked out and many people were queued up waiting to get in. They had to stop taking enrolments because there were not enough teachers for additional courses to be run. So we have a shortage of staff and a limited range of activities for people to undertake. 
One case that comes to mind, a somewhat pathetic case- I know it is only one small case- is that of a woman in Alice Springs who had been waiting for years for the Alice Springs Community College- an annex of the Darwin Community College- to be opened. She wrote to me with much indignation to say that she had passed her first year dressmaking course and could not do her second year and she was very unhappy about it. The reason was quite simple. Only 2 people wanted to do the course and therefore it was uneconomical to run it. I am told by the Darwin Community College people that they need 20 per cent more money at present to be able to offer the courses that they offered last year. We have slipped back a little. 
As I indicated earlier the Education Department has worked very well in the area of general education, literacy, social education and some supporting work for the trades that are being learnt. But I make the point again that this is all for Aborigines. Nothing is available for other people away from the main centres. 
I would like to run through the main aspects. At the moment there is nothing much for people in remote areas. There is only a part of the program and not technical education in its narrow sense.  Dr Anderson  of the Educational Research Unit of the Australian National University has been commissioned by the Darwin Community College to investigate the needs of postcompulsory education in the Northern Territory.  Dr Anderson  had organised for his research workers to visit and discuss the problem with the people in the Northern Territory.  His  research workers have held meetings with the Darwin Community College Council, staff and students, talked to the Department involved, to the apprenticeship boards and to the employees and the employers. After some frank and open discussion the group is to produce a report which I think will be available in April or May and which will no doubt find its way here. The group conducted a very good seminar in Darwin towards the end of last year and called on the groups I have mentioned to come and present what they saw as the deficiencies in the system in the Northern Territory. The group was very fortunate to have  Dr Chris  Duke and  Dr Elizabeth  Summerlad. They were commissioned to look particularly at the Aboriginal situation. Those honourable senators who know the work of these 2 people, who are Canberra residents, will know that they have a very solid background in Aboriginal education. They were able to prepare a very effective draft report. 
It is interesting that  Dr Summerlad  knows many of the young people personally, having been at Kormilda College for two or three years full time and on a visiting basis. The group has been out to settlements and missions and talked to the people concerned, to the young people and to the older people about the wishes they have for their children. Basically they are unhappy with the situation as they find it, but as I will indicate later on the group suggested that there be some sort of co-ordinating authority within the Territory. To complicate the issue, at the present time secondary schools in the Northern Territory do not cater for the non-academic student in relation to enrolment. I am not being critical of the high schools, but simply stating a fact. This is the way in which they have developed. It is most unfortunate because it means that there is no introduction to trade training. There is no preparation for technical training. Of course it also means that there are some pretty unhappy and disgruntled kids who are being thrust prematurely into the work force. Certainly they are not prepared for the work which lies in front of them. 

 -As Senator Kilgariff says, that situation exists throughout the Northern Territory. My colleague,  Senator Button,  had some interesting things to say about the philosophy of education. He looked into the future and spoke about developments which we might see in the years to come. Whatever one's philosophy of education happens to be, surely any system must meet the needs of the student and, through him, the needs of the community. Whichever way we look at it, it is the community through the student or  vice versa.  That is why the Advisory Council on Education in the Northern Territory is so important. I trust that the Government will look at the possibility of seeing ACENT develop within the Territory. 
I come back to what  Senator Baume  has said. This is important for the identification of needs within the community. It is the community which sets the needs of all students. Along with other honourable senators who have spoken I say that the needs of many students- I might even say the bulk of students- are not necessarily academic or geared towards a university course. More and more students are going on to various forms of higher education. This is a good thing. But the number would surely still be fewer than 50 per cent. At this point I make a plea to teachers, parents and the community generally to think about the possibility of trades. It is unfortunate that over the years we have built up a situation where many people within schools and many parents have said that the kid is no good at school and that he might as well be put into a trade. This is a most unfortunate attitude. We will have to work hard to eliminate it. As I tried to explain recently to apprenticeship people, trade means the building we are standing in, the clothes we are wearing, the car we drive and the technical equipment around us. Schools are not catering for people who have interests in these fields. Schools are not catering for the preapprenticeship student. They should do it and they must do it. I am not thinking here only of the number skills, reading and writing. I am thinking also of attitudes, such as attitudes to work, attitudes to life and attitudes to others. 
I do not want to move into  Senator Button's  field of philosophy, but surely education is the changing of attitude. If we do not change attitude then we have not educated. 
I suggest that some sort of structure is necessary. I see three alternatives at which we might look, namely, a council of community colleges, a board of technical and further education or a technical and further education branch of the Department. The council of community colleges has been suggested by the principal of the Darwin Community College to the Anderson inquiry. The job of the council would be to allocate funds to colleges and to assume responsibility for overall planning. I suggest that although the council might co-ordinate what exists, there are many disadvantages because what exists is fairly limited. We would have a duplication of administrative services. The council would find difficulty in coping with the remote areas. It would be inclined, as the college has been since its inception- I think this is a problem which faces most colleges of this type- to be academically oriented. We have a grand plan with the Darwin Community College, but while the staff keeps vying for university positions, university conditions of pay and for prestige, we will not get what we want out of the college. 
A board of technical and further education has been suggested. Obviously the board would be made up of representatives of the various government departments, the employers, members of the community and so on. Basically, it would be a co-ordinating or advisory body which would promote, encourage, develop and maintain but it would not run technical and further education. I see this as its major weakness. It would work through agencies which are not yet set up to do this work. Perhaps I have gone ahead of myself a little because I have said that the disadvantage with this group is that it would allocate the resources but it would not run the program. It would have all the problems faced by statutory bodies or commissions. The body I suggest is a technical and further education branch of the Education Department. If the Minister looks at the Education Department he will see that it is geared to setting up immediately a technical and further education branch within the Territory. This branch would simply be an extension of what is being offered. That is why I went to some pains to explain the work being done by the Aboriginal Adult Education Section. The people who are in that section at the moment have a certain expertise. They have the ability to get in and do the work. They have the experience to work with the Aboriginal communities. They would be able to develop a close liaison with the schools, which is necessary to give some meaning to the school program. After all, there must be job opportunities, as has been mentioned before, right from the trade group through to the university. There must be a job at the end of the work. There certainly would not be an advisory body but it could be easily set up. We could set up something like ACENT or something like the advisory bodies which the other States have. 
I have tried to show that there are technical and further education needs in the Northern Territory, particularly in the remote areas. I have suggested 3 possible models to overcome this need and I have indicated that I favour the third. I am prepared to elaborate on my reasons if anyone is interested. I have suggested that at the present time secondary schools are not catering for the non-academic student. I make a plea to the Minister, as other honourable senators in the chamber have done today, to make technical and further education one of his priorities. In the short term, he might assist the Darwin Community College with staff and finance. In the longer term he could set up some sort of machinery to give that equality of education which is the aim of the present Government. 
-The Minister for Education will be aware that the Commonwealth Teachers Federation held a stopwork meeting in Darwin yesterday to protest about the shortage of single teacher accommodation in the Northern Territory. Will the Minister advise the Senate what action is planned to overcome the shortage of accommodation which threatens the quality of education available to the children of the Northern Territory? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister indicate what action he intends to take in the matter of Aboriginal employees working on communities in Central Australia being dismissed following a directive from the Alice Springs Regional Office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, in view of express pre-election promises that there would be no cuts in Aboriginal Affairs spending or in Aboriginal Affairs programs. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, relates to the critical unemployment situation in Darwin at the present time and the problems encountered by people wishing to receive the unemployment benefit. The Minister will be aware that at the end of February, the period for which  the latest figures are available, 1116 people were registered as unemployed in Darwin. The figure would be much higher now. In 1975 there was an average of 60 claims a week with a waiting time of 2 weeks for processing. The figure is now 250 a week with a waiting time of 6 weeks. My question is twofold. Will the Minister make some arrangements for additional staff to be sent to Darwin to assist with the processing of claims? Will the Minister give some consideration to the plight of those people who are ineligible to claim unemployment benefit as they have no residential address and are forced to camp out or squat in vacant buildings? The matter is urgent as doubtless the number of unemployed will rise with the onset of the dry season. Many of the older residents in Darwin see a situation developing which is analogous to that of the period just prior to the war when there was massive unemployment and when clashes occurred between the police and the unemployed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) Have tenders been called for a company to take over the exploration activities to which the Australian Atomic Energy Commission is committed to by its agreements with certain mining companies. 
If the answer to (  1  ) is in the affirmative, and no tenderer does come forward to take over the Commission's activities, how will it be effected. 
If there is a successful tender, what will happen to (a) the buildings and equipment at present in Alice Springs and Darwin, (b) the personnel currently employed by the Commission in the Northern Territory, and (c) the data at present being held by the Commission following its research over the years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Are the port facilities in Darwin outmoded and in need of upgrading at the earliest possible date. 
Will the Minister investigate the possibility of widening the front of the wharf apron on berth 1 and 2 by at least 20 feet to facilitate the handling of cargo. 
-Can the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development inform the Parliament whether the Government can guarantee continued financial assistance to Aboriginal housing societies throughout Australia? If the answer is in the affirmative, what forms will such assistance take? 
-The Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory will know that the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund is required to issue monthly reports of its activities. The last report issued was for the month of January. Could the Minister advise why no reports have been issued since that time? It was envisaged that the final report of the Trust would be a comprehensive document which might act as a manual for future committees. Could the Minister advise whether this report is in course of preparation and whether it might be tabled in the Parliament? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, concerns the provision of education for the handicapped child. The Minister will be aware that in some States the responsibility for the education of the blind, the deaf and the mentally retarded rests with the parents. Under the Labor Government Schools Commission, grants for handicapped schools provided government funds to assist in this field. Will the Minister encourage State governments to assume responsibility for the education of handicapped children within State schools and, on the recommendation of the Schools Commission, make funds available for this purpose? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did an advertisement appear in the  Northern Territory News  on 15 March 1976 calling tenders for a security patrol service for the Australian Army at Darwin in the Northern Territory. 
What Army facilities are to be patrolled by a civilian patrol service. 
Why cannot this patrol work be carried out by members of the Armed Forces. 
Will the Government be letting out for tender the security patrolling of other defence establishments. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that the 2500 people living on Groote Eylandt have no resident doctor and that the only service available for emergency cases is that supplied from Gove, which can be provided only during daylight hours and weather permitting? If this is a fact, will the Minister indicate what steps are being taken to resolve this unsatisfactory situation? 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
As has been indicated by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  the bilingual program in the Northern Territory is in its infancy. The Minister mentioned the work of Doctors O 'Grady and Hale who were invited to the Northern Territory to investigate the program in 1974. After they had visited the Territory they made this point: 
It is of course just a beginning and has a long and difficult road ahead of it. 
No doubt the report which has been tabled tonight indicates some of the achievements and some of the problems which we see in the program. I suggest we look at what we mean by 'bilingual education'. In the United States of America when an Act was being prepared on bilingual education the drafters of the Act used this definition: 
Bilingual education is the use of 2 languages, one of which is English, as mediums of instruction, for the same pupil population, in a well-organised program which encompasses part or all of the curriculum and includes the study of the history and culture associated with the mother tongue. A complete program develops and maintains the children's selfesteem and legitimate pride in both cultures. 
How will this be done? What steps must be taken to develop this sort of program? I suggest that the first step will be that the people who are involved in the education program must learn to recognise and to respect the language and culture of the community. Honourable senators will know that this was not always so. It is not many years ago that children were punished for using their own language in the school and in the playground. Schools at that time were very much foreign institutions. No Aboriginal culture was included and the idea seemed to be that the children should be made as much like Europeans as possible. In fact, a commentator writing generally of this period stated: 
From the 1950s to the early 1970s government involvement in Aboriginal affairs in the Northern Territory was guided by the premise that the disabilities suffered by Aboriginals would be overcome if they could somehow be moulded into facsimiles of white urban and rural Australians. They had to have the same standard and type of clothing, housing, education, food, etc., as white Australians and even the same attitudes. 
I suggest that this attitude is still with us at this time. Many well meaning people say that the Aboriginal must be given the same chance, the same facilities, not realising what this implies. There have been some dramatic and drastic changes in the past few years. In the first place, Aboriginal culture was introduced into the schools. Instead of having prints from overseas, barks were hung on the school walls, artifacts were used to decorate libraries and so on. Aboriginal artists were paid to teach the children dancing and singing in their own language and their own culture. Aboriginal artists were also paid to come in to teach the crafts of the Aboriginal people. It was most important for them to develop the skills of their fathers. There was a use of Aboriginal names instead of European names. This caused difficulties only for the teachers who had to try to say them. 
There was a suggestion that the vernacular should be used for the establishing of literary skills. It is educationally sound that the child's first language should be the one used to teach literacy skills for the very simple reason that he is fluent in that language. The problems faced by teachers in the early Aboriginal schools were that they tried to teach oral English and, at the same time, they tried to teach literacy in English. They failed. The child was not fluent in English. As a matter of fact, it is amazing how few teachers realised how little English a child needed to appreciate what the teacher was trying to say. The child learnt to recognise signals rather than listening to the language of the teacher. I think it is generally accepted that man needs at least language and land to establish his identity. Of course this was the reason for the two-pronged attack used by Labor over the last 3 years- language through the bilingual program plus use of both languages on the settlements, in the churches, in discussions, in decision-making and so on; also the Woodward report, leading to the Lands Commission and land rights for Aborigines. This led one commentator to speak of the great need of Aboriginals to return to the land that supports the whole basis of their personal and communal psyche'. Unless man establishes his identity he floats in a vacuum between the 2 cultures. He is without pride and without purposea straw in the wind- and he is prey to the pressures and temptations which surround him. 
The second step in this process is to develop literacy skills in the vernacular; in other words, to teach the child to read in his own language- to give him that complex set of skills that we call reading. Step 3 is a movement from literacy in the vernacular, or his own language, to literacy in English. Sarah Gudchinsky, who is a world authority on these matters, has demonstrated this to be the most effective method of teaching literacy and of moving into literacy in English. I think that in Australia we have some advantage in the fact that the Aboriginal had no written language before and so there is not the problem with orthography that there is in some places. So the program might be said to be not only bilingual but also bicultural. The other skills needed within the schools would be an ability to teach both in English and in the vernacular, as appropriate. Watts, McGrath and Tandy reported:   the Aboriginal language would remain as the appropriate language for arts in that language and for Aboriginal studies (conducted sometimes by Aboriginal members of the teaching team and sometimes by Aboriginal adults from the community.) 
Of course in practice English is introduced gradually in the schools-very little in the first year, leading through to a good deal in the last years of primary schooling. The question might be raised by some: Why bother to teach English at all? Why give literacy in English? It is only fair to say that for secondary schooling and for later studies- either university or other types of tertiary education- books are available only in English for use by the Aboriginal people. There are a few problems on which I should like to draw very quickly before making some suggestions. O 'Grady and Hale again said: 
A thread which will run through our recommendations, though not  formulised  in a single statement, has to do with the principle that the success of any educational program depends upon the extent to which the school is an integral part of the community which it serves. 
But as we know, some communities are not involved in education, although programs are introduced only when they are asked for. The people of the community are too busy with other matters. They are busy with land rights, mineral rights and so on. I think that they do not get involved because they do not fully understand the program. Perhaps the community is not as committed to education as the upper middle class of which we hear so much in our own communities. Parents, if asked whether they want education, will say they do but they do not really understand the time factor involved. They are not, perhaps, future oriented. One is reminded of the joke about the boy who went to pre-school for the first day and when he came home his mother said: 'Did you learn anything?' He said: 'No, not much. I have to go back again tomorrow. ' Certainly many of the Aboriginal people feel that if they attend a short course in bricklayingperhaps for 2 weeks- they are then accomplished bricklayers. If they attend a course in carpentry for 3 weeks they feel that they should be accomplished carpenters. They do not understand the problems. We must appreciate, I think, that some of the Aboriginal people have different priorities. 
A few other problems that I must mention are the problems facing those who are intimately involved in this area. I make these suggestions to the Minister for his consideration. There is a problem of finance. The Director of Education in the Northern Territory,  Dr Eedle,  has said that finance is not always the problem, and of course it is not always the problem. But in this case it is. Money is needed to pay those Aboriginal people who write the stories which are the basis of the program. Unless we have this reading material the program cannot go forward. In fact, I am prepared to say that unless this material is produced the program will collapse. It is as simple as that. Unless we find the money to get people to produce the readers and the primers needed in the program the program will collapse. 
The Minister in his statement mentioned the turnover in European staff. I shall mention an additional problem that he did not draw attention to and that is the fact that in many cases 60 per cent of the teachers who go out to the schools come straight from college, and understandably, when they go into the bilingual situation, they take fright at the immensity of the task which is in front of them. The remedy is pretty straightforward although again it involves finance. We must have further training in English as a second language, anthropology, linguistics, teaching techniques and so on for these people, preferably at the Darwin Community College. But we need money for this further training. The consultative committee must remain, not just as a name but as a group of people who are to set the guidelines, to monitor the program and to write reports which could be sent overseas, where we have gained some reputation for such reports. Aboriginal teacher training is a most important aspect. Aboriginal teachers are probably the most stable element of the program. The Minister has drawn attention to this. We must have facilities for training. We must have the right sort of training. I make the plug once again, if the Minister is listening, that we should have Frances Creek developed as a teacher training institution. 
The bilingual program is a great step forward and I can say very sincerely is a breakthrough in Aboriginal education. It has attracted attention from all over the world and we in Australia have reason to be proud of this. Its influence is felt not only in the schools which it serves but also in the community schools. Not long ago a European lad won the bark painting competition at his local show. European children are taking part in the non-sacred corroborees- the play corroborees and even our balandas are learning to play the didgeridoo. I suppose this is reasonable- one does not have to be a Scotsman to be able to play the bagpipes. I congratulate those responsible for the program and urge the Government in the strongest possible terms to continue support of the program, despite the Government's austerity measures. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Schools Commission been instructed to prepare a revised report on the recommendations contained in its Annual Report; if so, does the Minister intend to issue any guidelines to the Commission. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, have the guidelines been formulated and passed to the Commission; if so, will the guidelines be included in the revised report. 
3 ) When will the revised report be issued. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Is it a fact that the strength of the Northern Territory police force is at present well below the numbers recommended by the McKinna report and below the ceilings imposed by the present Government? Is it also a fact that the present resignation rate in the Northern Territory police force, apart from normal retirements, is of the order of 2 officers a month. If these are facts, will the Minister indicate what steps are being taken to ensure security for the citizens of the Northern Territory? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Is it a fact that earlier this month 3 boys, aged 13, 14 and 16 years respectively, spent 3 days and nights in the maximum security section of the Fannie Bay gaol while on remand? If this is a fact, will the Minister explain to the Senate how such a situation could be tolerated, especially as the Fannie Bay gaol has been described as the worst institution of its type in Australia? Will the Minister give an undertaking that other and more appropriate remand facilities will be provided on any future occasion when they are required for offenders in this age group? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the  President  of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory threaten to recall the Assembly and question the  Deputy  Leader of the Majority Party in the Assembly if the Minister failed to provide information to Members concerning cuts and deferrals in public works programs for the Northern Territory. 
Has this information been provided; if so, will the Minister now make the information available to the Senate. 
-The Minister representing the Minister for Health will be aware that the Department of Construction is building a hospital creche at Nhulunbuy for the Department of Health. That creche was due to be finished and opened before Christmas 1975. Despite the fact that finance is available, the building is still not completed. In view of the urgent need for this facility in Nhulunbuy, will the Minister investigate the reason for the delay and ask that the completion of the building be given some priority? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How much rent does the Darwin commercial television station NTD 8 pay for the use of the Government television tower to transmit its programs. 
How much does NTD 8 pay for the use of the Government building which houses both NTD 8's and the Government transmitters. 
How much does NTD 8 contribute to the salaries of Government technicians who maintain the transmitters. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
When will the Secretary of the Department of the Northern Territory,  Mr Livingston,  move permanently to Darwin and meet not only his staff, but the people of Darwin, and fulfil his duties. 
When will an announcement be made about the appointment of the Administrator of the Northern Territory. 
I present the following petition from 557 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Federal Government has announced its intention to withdraw all services on the Darwin/Larrimah railway link. 
That the withdrawal of these services will cause serious economic and social hardship to the people of the Northern Territory especially those in Darwin. 
That the officers at present employed by the North Australian Railways will suffer hardship through absence of alternative employment. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will reconsider its decision to withdraw the services and allow the North Australian Railways to continue to operate at its present level. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, concerns the present financial position of the North Australia Railway and is in 4 parts. Firstly, what was the cost in 1974-75 and 1975-76 of the re-sleepering program of the North Australia Railway? Secondly, what was the cost to the North Australia Railway of postcyclone Tracy benefits paid to employees? These benefits would have included rest and recreation fares, R and R paid leave, hard living allowance and time lost while on railway pay but not engaged in productive work. Thirdly, what is the cost to date of post-cyclone Tracy repair work for the North Australia Railway? Finally, can the Minister advise whether the 3 items mentioned above are included in expenditure figures and costed against NAR operational expenses? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that the Department recently purchased Mount Allen Station? If so can the Minister tell the Senate who carried out the valuation of the property, whether the valuation included stock, what price was paid for the property and what assistance will be given to the Aboriginal people who will run the property? 
-This report will be welcomed in the Northern Territory. Those of us who have an interest in technical and further education, particularly that of the Aboriginal people, have looked for some time for provision for the rural areas. In my evidence to the Katherine Rural College Planning Committee I suggested that there be some decentralisation with the courses presently being offered in Darwin being located in Katherine. I congratulate  Mr Dodd  and his Committee on the work that they have done and I look forward to studying the report in some detail. When the Labor Government commissioned the report in 1974 there was strong pressure from local people for a college at Katherine. There seemed to be a strong need for this facility. The report on postcompulsory education in northern Australia presented by  Dr Anderson  and his team raises some doubts. On page 15 of the report they note that the terms of reference of the Katherine study suggest that there will be a college of independent status at Katherine. Anderson's study casts considerable doubt on the validity of this assumption. They put forward evidence to suggest that the population of the region would not provide sufficient students to make the college viable. They also suggest that the college would have difficulty in attracting and retaining the right sort of staff. 
I have no wish to cast a damper on the idea of a college at Katherine, but I raise this matter simply to suggest that the Minister will have the advantage of additional information when he makes his decision on the most appropriate facility to meet the needs of the region. More data will also be forthcoming from the working party which has been set up recently to look at Aboriginal employment and the training facilities which could be developed in this area. In this regard, I am particularly pleased to see that the efforts of a small group of people over the last three or four years have not been in vain, and I commend them for their endeavours. Without any doubt there is a need for some sort of training and further education for all people of the region, both Aboriginal and others, and I look to the Government to provide appropriate education at all levels. I cannot conclude without making another plea for itinerant trainers, properly equipped, to move into isolated communities as part of any scheme. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that many of the 300 Timorese refugees at present living in Darwin wish to make application for emergency housing and are prevented from so doing because they do not hold permanent resident status. 
Will the Minister indicate whether a decision has yet been made on the issue of permanent visas to these people or whether some other arrangement can be made to allow them to apply for emergency housing. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Government guarantee continued financial assistance to Aboriginal housing societies throughout Australia; if so what forms will the assistance take. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) When will an appointment be made to the position of Administrator of the Northern Territory. 
Will the Minister expedite an appointment since the position has been vacant since November 1975, and the present situation where the Acting Administrator is also Deputy-Secretary of the Depanment of the Northern Territory and Deputy-Chairman of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission is unfair to the officer concerned and not in the best interests of efficient administration. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that unless the present staff ceiling of 205 is lifted to at least 283 for the 1977 academic year, over 1600 students will be denied access to the Darwin Community College; if so, will the Minister indicate whether staff ceilings will apply next year and if so, whether those at the College will be lifted to meet the needs of the community for which the college was established. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Will the Minister indicate what progress has been made in the rationalisation of the operation of the Northmeat Abattoirs at Katherine and the Wyndham Meatworks. 
Can the Minister indicate whether or not the Northmeat Abattoirs will operate this season, and if they are to operate, what will be the opening date for their activities. 
If the Nonhmeat Abattoirs do not plan to operate this season, will the Minister advise what arrangements the Government will make to assist those cattlemen in the Northern Territory who would normally use this facility. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Do new uniforms at present being issued to the members of the Northern Territory Police Force have provision for the policeman's number to be displayed; if not, is this due to an omission or a result of a policy decision. 
Should a citizen be able to identify a policeman by his number and should this be prominently displayed, as in other police forces. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Has a case been made in the Northern Territory for a Royal Commission into the transport needs of the Territory, following upon the Government's decisions to withdraw all services on the Larrimah-Darwin rail link; if so, would a Royal Commission be justified in view of the fact that the Bureau of Transport Economics is already conducting such a survey. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Did the Government announce that the Katherine meatworks will open in July of this year for a short season; if so, will the Minister give the Senate some indication of the longer-term plans of the Government in this regard so that pastoralists may be able to plan their ongoing program with some confidence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What was the cost in 1974-75 and 1975-76 of the sleepering program for the North Australia Railway. 
What was the cost to the Railway of post Cyclone Tracy benefits paid to employees, including rest and recreation fares, rest and recreation paid leave, hard-living allowances and time lost whilst on Railway pay, but not engaged in productive work. 
What is the cost to date of post Cyclone Tracy repair work for the Railway. 
Are the items mentioned included in expenditure figures and costed against the Railway's operational expenses? 
I present the following petition from 673 citizens of Darwin: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned residents of Darwin respectfully showeth: 
Whereas residents of Darwin whose homes were destroyed or damaged in the cyclone of December 1974 desire to rebuild their homes and the Government has promised to assist these endeavours by making available low-interest finance through the Home Finance Trustee, 
And whereas the Minister for the Northern Territory has now announced limitations on the amount of funds to be made available for the purpose this financial year which will unduly prolong the rebuilding of Darwin with consequent prolongation of the already lengthy period of living under deplorable conditions endured by many. 
Your petitioners therefore pray that the Senate will urge the Government to continue funding all applications for loans from the Home Finance Trustee as and when received to allow the rebuilding of homes to proceed without interruption during this year and successive financial years until the residents who suffered loss of accommodation in the cyclone are adequately housed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Institutions for the Aged 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. The Northern Territory Arts Council is deeply concerned that there appears to be no grant for it in this year's Budget for the Northern Territory. Will the Minister advise the Senate whether this is due to an oversight or to the fact that the Government has taken the decision to cease such funding, which has been made available by all governments since 1969 in order to enable the Council to make what has been a significant contribution to the cultural life of the Northern Territory? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services, concerns the 140 Department of Defence houses situated at Tindal in the Northern Territory. As the Minister will know, a decision has been taken to call for tenders for the removal of most of these houses. In view of the shortage of accommodation in Katherine, the high cost of new houses and the relatively low cost of renovating the Defence houses, will the Minister review his decision so as to ensure that people now living in sub-standard homes can be provided with more appropriate accommodation? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by  Senator Wriedt.  Three of the 5 aspects of the amendment have particular relevance to the Northern Territory. I support the call which he made to condemn the Budget on the grounds that (a) it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; (b) it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly to those most vulnerable to hardship notably Aborigines, the unemployed and migrants; and (c) it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment. I propose to direct my remarks to the Northern Territory; my colleagues are quite competent to handle the other areas. If we look for one word to sum up the effect of the Budget on the Northern Territory we have to use the word 'disaster'. The people in the Northern Territory at the present time speak of 3 recent disasters. They speak of cyclone Tracy; they speak of the change of government; and they speak of the present budgetary policy. They are not sure which will have the greatest long term effects. 
I think that we must see the Budget as part of a package. As far as the Northern Territory is concerned, we cannot see it just as it stands at the moment. We have to think of the May cut-backs and the disastrous effects they have had. We have to think of the present Government's staffing policies, including staff ceilings. We also have to look at the Budget. These 3 components come together to form a package which has had an effect on the Northern Territory which I have called 'disastrous'. Many people in the Northern Territory see the policy of the present Government as one which is consciously winding down the Territory through its failure not only to give support but also to give any son of incentive for development. We see the complete disintegration of the economy as a result of the 1 976-77 Budget. 
I think it is fair to say that in a Budget we usually look either for progress or for a maintenance of present levels. In this Budget we can see no progress and no maintenance of the present level. In fact we can see that the Territory is slipping back. The people in the Territory see this as yet another example of the breaking of promises that were made on the campaign trail and that have been made since. One of the more recent comments made by  Mr Sinclair,  the Minister for Primary Industry, was: 
Australia cannot afford not to develop the potential of the northern areas . . . Australian government would encourage the use of the potential of Northern Australia in the interests of balanced development. 

 Mr Sinclair made it quite clear in his address that he was talking about local industries of the north and, perhaps more importantly, the infrastructure needed within the Territory and within northern Queensland to support them. I think it is painfully obvious that there is no balanced development as was promised by  Mr Sinclair.  If we looked at the rather generous handouts we would assume that perhaps the Government was pinning all its hopes on mining as being the one thing that would save the Northern Territory. But of course mining, while it is most important and will be a great factor in the development of the north, is not labour intensive; it does not have a great deal of allied industries; and it does not have a great deal of service industries. Mining tends to be isolated. Those who have been to the north will know what I am talking about. 
Let me then look at 4 main areas of the Budget: Firstly, the broad picture in the Northern Territory, including the effect of the Budget on the Northern Territory; secondly, the unique situation of the Territories, and the Northern Territory in particular; thirdly, the interrelationship of Government policies and the Budget; and, fourthly, an examination of some of the areas in a little more detail. Firstly, I will look at the broad picture of the Budget as seen by territorians. So that there can be no claim of bias I will read to honourable senators an extract from the Northern Territory  News  of 18 August. Those honourable senators who are familiar with the Northern Territory will know that the Northern Territory  News  is a link in the Murdoch chain and of course is very strongly proCountryLiberal Party both in its editorials and in its method of reporting news. This is what the Northern Territory  News  had to say: 
The Budget is a stand still Budget. It does nothing that will get the Territory moving ahead as a whole.  Mr Lynch  hopes that the business community will rise to the bait and start to invest again. It may be a worthwhile gamble (and that's all it is) but it won't work in the Territory. Private enterprise is simply not big enough to pick up the tab in the Northern Territory which relies on the government's hip pocket more than any other area in Australia. 
Taking that summation of the broad picture of the Territory, let us look at what is happening in the Territory at the present time. The first thing that we see in the Territory is massive unemployment. I was very pleased to hear the comments made by  Senator Carrick  today in answer to a question, because since the Territory is a Federal responsibility no doubt in the very near future we will see steps taken by  Senator Carrick  and his Government to do something about the massive unemployment in the Northern Territory. The picture of unemployment, as I said before, is a result of a package- the May decisions and Government policies, all leading towards the present Budget. 
I was very interested to read this morning, when travelling to Canberra, an article which appeared in  Time  magazine which stated as a fact that the Government in framing the Budget had accepted that there would be cuts in real wages and that there would be- I am quoting the words from  Time- at  least 5.2 per cent unemployment'. We can confidently predict, then, that the figures will remain the same no matter how they are juggled. Let us look at the July and August unemployment figures in the Northern Territory. In Alice Springs 6.6 per cent of the work force was unemployed in July and 6.5 per cent in August. In Darwin 4.7 per cent was unemployed in July and 4.3 per cent in August. In Katherine 5.3 per cent was unemployed in July and 6.8 per cent in August. Average unemployment in the Northern Territory for July was 5.3 per cent, and for August 5.4 per cent. The Northern Territory has the rather unfortunate distinction of having the highest unemployment rate in Australia. The national average rate of unemployment is 4.4 per cent. The Darwin figures seem a little lower than the others; honourable senators will recall, of course, that the slack would be taken up here by moneys spent by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission- a Labor initiative which was designed to carry on. There was no suggestion that its activities would be chopped off. The planners of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission carefully made sure that it would have to go forward. 
I should like to compare the unemployment figures for July 1976 with the unemployment figures for July 1974. My friends opposite will remember that 1974 was the middle of that terrible period when Labor was in office and when all the problems were caused in our community. Alice Springs had 1.6 per cent of its work force unemployed. The figure at present is 6.6 per cent. In July 1974 Darwin had 2.7 per cent of its work force unemployed. The figure now is 4.7 per cent. Katherine had 2. 1 per cent of its work force unemployed in 1974- in the middle of Labor's term of office- compared with the current unemployment rate of 5.3 per cent. The figures, of course, did not include that vast number of Aboriginals who have moved off stations due to the slump in the beef industry, nor do they include those people who are not prepared to register for unemployment because of the conditions being set by the Department of Social Security at the present time. A very grim picture faces school leavers at present. No doubt, the picture is the same all over Australia. The Australian Council of Social Service is particularly concerned with this problem and had this to say:  . . lack of employment . . . constitutes a factor of social emargination in a society where the participation in the productive process is highly valued. The indelible effect on the young who constitute a large percentage of the work force cannot be over-emphasised- the long term cost is immeasurable. 
I repeat that the long term cost is immeasurable. As well as being concerned about the European children or those young people who are leaving school in November or December this year, in the Northern Territory we are faced with another problem. I am referring to the group of Aboriginal people who also will be leaving school in November and December and who will be leaving school more or less ill equipped to take their place in the work force. They will add to the numbers of the young people who are at present unemployed in Aboriginal communities throughout the Northern Territory. Add those to the present figures that I have stated and it presents a very grim picture. 
I should now like to deal with apprenticeships in the Northern Territory. For the first time in the Northern Territory that anyone can remember, there are not enough apprenticeships available to cater for those people who are looking for them. In the past, if a young lad or girl was looking for an apprenticeship it was always available. This is not so in the present situation. I think that it is fairly indicative of the state of the community. So, what is the result of this massive unemployment of which I speak? Firstly, people are living in sub-standard conditions because they are unable to repair the buildings in which they live or because they are unable to rent better accommodation. Many people are leaving the Territory taking with them the skills that are needed there. I think this is one of the most critical factors we have to keep in mind. We cannot afford to lose from the Territory those people who have skills that are needed there. Another point- perhaps it is the most significant- is the undesirable social conditions of those without the dignity of work. I do not think I have to elaborate- certainly not to honourable senators on this side of the chamber- the details of the indignity of those who are without work. I turn now to the building industry. What do we find occurring in that industry? Honourable senators opposite can ask: 'How important is the building industry in the Northern Territory?'  Mr Barry  Wyatt, a strong supporter of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party, when speaking in his capacity as  President  of the Master Builders Association, said: 
The economy of the Northern Territory as a whole depends on the viability of the building and construction industries as the largest employer of labour and the biggest consumer of a wide range of raw materials and manufactured goods. It is not a matter of a couple of builders going broke- it will affect many people in allied industries. 
That is the point to which I wish to refer. That is the scene in Darwin. Is it any different in Alice Springs? A week ago I was talking to a group of builders in Alice Springs who said that of the 18 builders in the town there was work for four under the present Budget. The question was thrown at me: 'What will happen to the other fourteen?' I throw this question back at the Government: 'What will happen to the other 14 builders?' I will add to it this rider: What will happen to the other people, those who are there to service the building industry- the allied industries and the service industries as we have called them? I do not think that I need to elaborate on these points. In the Northern Territory building is going ahead at a much slower rate than ever before. I will refer later to road building but I pre-empt my remarks by saying that the picture is just as grim for road building. 
Why are things so bad in the Northern Territory this year? I have said that there is a conscious attempt- some of us in the Northern Territory believe this- by the Government to deescalate the development of Territories. I do not like the word 'de-escalate' but it gives the impression of slowing down. Why is this so? 
Perhaps it is to remove that pace setter image that the Territories have had for some time. Honourable senators will remember that it has been said that the Territories would set the standards and that the States would follow. Perhaps the Government is attempting to deWhitlamise another unfortunate word but one which has currency at the moment- the territories. The Labor Government said that the territories would act as models and that they would be there for the States to copy. Perhaps this Government believes that the Territories just do not fit into its wonderful federalism plans. Many people in the Northern Territory feel that this is probably the basic reason for the Government's action- that it believes that the Northern Territory just did not fit into its plans and so it must be slipped to one side. 
Honourable senators will remember, of course, that our present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  invented Statehood for the Northern Territory. At present the feeling is that he might need a new sales manager. The concept is not selling very well at the moment and there is certainly nothing in this Budget which will help to sell it. I think a more important point- one which will be accepted by all honourable senatorsis the dependence of the territory on government expenditure. I think this is the key to the situation in the Territory at the present time. The present Government has failed to understand how much the allied industries and the service industries of the Territory are dependent on government expenditure. This is particularly so in the main centres but it also applies outside those centres. Most of the buildings are government financed, as are homes, hospitals, schools, roads and so on. These have all been constructed as a result of government expenditure. The latest figures show that roughly 34 per cent of the population in Darwin are government servants. If we add to that figure a contingent of servicemen from the 3 Services we have a rather solid group of people who are servants of the Government but who require others to service them. 
Another point which we must keep in mind- it is one that appears to have been overlooked- is the fact that there is very little secondary industry in the Northern Territory. If we fail to realise that we will fail to appreciate the present situation. Economists speak of the multiplier effect within a community. If we inject a certain amount of funds- particularly government funds- into the community the effect is multiplied within the community. The economy is stimulated. There is nothing new about this. It has been talked of for years. The opposite situation exists in the Northern Territory. We seem to have- if I can use this expression- an inverse multiplier. Lack of stimulation and lack of incentive means that allied industries will wind down, that service industries will wind down and, in the final analysis, the Territory itself will wind down. Let us not fool ourselves. I am not being dramatic about this. The situation is rapidly approaching when the economy of the Northern Territory will be winding down. If it does, of course the big firms will leave the Northern Territory and, once again, like the people who move out, they will take their expertise with them. If the money comes later there will be no resources available to get on with the job. Let me remind honourable senators again that mining is not enough in the territory. If we are to maintain the territory at its present structure we will need a solid Public Service infrastructure and a solid economic infrastructure with which mining could work. I think I have made the point here many times, and others have made it too, that across the board decisions are seldom beneficial. Certainly this does apply in the Northern Territory. If in some places a cutback in government spending might work then fair enough but, as I have indicated in my quotations from the  Northern Territory News  and other sources, it certainly will not work in the Territory. A cutback in government spending in the Northern Territory such as we are seeing at the present time will mean a slowing down of the Territory. One would have thought that after 23 years in government the framers of our present Budget would have accepted this proposition. 
Let me move on to the third section I mentioned as part of the package, that is, the Government's staffing policies. These fall into 2 main areas: One deals with ceilings and the other with replacements. I shall come to ceilings in a moment. I wonder how many honourable senators really appreciate the situation that exists at the moment with respect to the replacement of any Australian Public Service position, say in education. Firstly, when a person resigns the Department must be advised and a letter must go in justifying the appointment of someone else. This must then be referred to the Public Service Inspector who may not approve but may only disapprove and then, if the position is going to be filled, that recommendation has to go to the Minister. Can honourable senators imagine anything more ridiculous than the situation that would exist if the cleaner were to resign at Croker Island, which has a fortnightly mail service? How many months, if not years, would it take to get a replacement cleaner for the school? Yet this is exactly the situation that is prevailing at the present time. 
I shall mention ceilings a little further on but let me take a look at education, because it is the area I know best in the Northern Territory, and see what effect this Government's policies- part of the package- are having on education. The situation has developed whereby the physically and mentally handicapped children are going to be told to stay home because the Department of Education cannot cope with them. There is a distinct possibility not only that no further people will be taken in but also that the physically and mentally handicapped students in the schools will be sent home simply because we have not any teacher aides. It is not possible for us to replace our special teacher aides. I think I have spoken before in this place on the way in which the system in the Northern Territory is structured for making education available to the physically and mentally handicapped within the schools but requiring the use of teacher aides. 
We have the ridiculous situation that the schools which open next year will not be able to have any APS staff unless, of course, one is taken from one of the present schools. If, for example, a school were to open up at Tiwi a secretary and a teacher aide would have to go there from another school, and so on. Obviously this would mean a lowering of the standard of education provided. This is particularly important in the area of the Aboriginal teaching assistants and the other Aboriginal people working within the Department of Education. As I said before, for teaching every assistant to be recruited a special case has to be made via the Department to the Public Service Inspector and then to the Minister before the work of the school can go ahead. I do not know how the rest of the Territory sees this, but a good number of teachers see it as a patently transparent attempt to prevent employment and nothing else. There can be no justification for referring to Canberra the appointment of a teaching assistant to Croker Island. 
One wonders at some of the comments that were made by the present Government during Labor's term in office about the dangers of centralism and about the problems of having to refer everything to Canberra. It is working pretty well for the present Government at the moment. I see it no lesser terms than being a vicious and unnecessary attack on the wonderful advances that were made in these 2 areas during the last 3 years- the areas of Aboriginal education and special education. 
May I stay with the Department of Education and indicate one more area of Government policy which is causing a lot of concern, that is, the lack of co-ordination in the Budget cuts. The Department of Education has been given plenty of money to hire vehicles. The Plant Hire Organisation in Darwin which handles vehicles for hire has had its money cut so that it can make available to the Department of Education only 3 cars a year for all the senior officers and 60 advisers to travel throughout the Territory. This shows a shocking lack of co-ordination and is a waste of resources. 
I do not think the honourable senator understands the situation that exists in the Northern Territory. The situation he mentioned does not pertain in the Northern Territory. Nevetheless, this shows the lack of co-ordination that exists. Perhaps the situation mentioned by the honourable senator should be adopted in the Northern Territory. Perhaps this is similar to the social security situation where, despite the fact that we have more unemployment than before, we have fewer officers to deal with the unemployed. In the week before last 570 people in Darwin were waiting for their claims to be processed. I imagine this would be duplicated in the other centres. 
It is not surprising that we find a low morale in the Public Service at the present time. I wonder what the reasons are. The first is quite obvious, that is, that the Government, the employer of the public servants, has joined the game of knocking the public servants. The Public Service is under attack from its own boss. I give an example in the following extraordinary statement made by the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  when speaking of one isolated experiment: 
This established the principle that it is almost always cheaper to have work done by a competitive tender than for a Government department to do it. 
This is the policy which will operate. 
-That statement shows that that honourable senator does not understand this area either, because the people who handle the work say that this is not so. It is very difficult to service the public when there are cutbacks in the Public Service. Natural wastagethat delightful term which has been inventedmeans that anyone at all can go from within a department. It might be the office boy or it might be someone fairly senior; but this wastage will occur and, of course, there will be no replacement. Public statements made by the Government deny the professional approach and the dedication shown by many of the officers working in the Northern Territory. Add to this the little things like the closure of the railway, the threatened closure of the Australian National Line, the increase in service charges and increases in the cost of living, and it is not surprising that the public servants working in Darwin at the present time have a low morale which obviously leads to the inefficiency which it would appear that some of the Government supporters would like to see. 
Let us look at a number of specific areasfirstly at Aboriginal affairs, because it is a fascinating area of the Budget that is full of surprises. Honourable senators will remember the famous Ellicott telegram stating that there would be no cuts.  Senator Coleman  and others have dealt very well with this. Then we have this delightful economic legerdemain which says: 'You have had a $33m cut but somehow you are better off'. I have not quite worked that one out but it fits in with some of the other comments made. Then we had the recent Viner letter which says that there will be more funds after review. Of course, as in the old days, nobody says where this money is coming from; nobody says we are going to pluck this money out of the trees. Is this yet another example of efficient government, which was the main promise made by the present Government during its election campaign? Does this show efficiency? 
I can understand that Aboriginal affairs is a sensitive area for the Government.  Senator Cavanagh  tonight outlined very clearly some of the major achievements of Labor during its 3 years in office. I remind the Senate of three of the major ones. For the first time the Aborigines had land rights; for the first time we had a bilingual program based on the assumption that for an Aborigine to establish his identity he needs his land, his language and his culture. Perhaps the most important area of development in Aboriginal affairs was that of self-determination.  Senator Cavanagh  dealt very well with this. He spoke of the dignity being achieved by the Aboriginal people. He made the point, which I support entirely, that there was more real development since that term is becoming popular, in terms of self-determination for Aborigines in 3 years of the Labor Government than in the 23 years previously. Of course, when we look at this we find that the Government has a job to do. Again, we need to de-Whitlamise. We need to wipe out the past 3 years. We hear most astonishing statements about gross extravagances, inefficiency and white men leading the black man to death. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  made reference to this aspect in his Budget Speech. There are references to the fact that the housing associations that have been established are completely useless and a gross waste of money. One or two selected examples were used to show that this was so. I think that  Senator Cavanagh  dispelled those thoughts. The Government seeks to say that the business enterprises had been most ineffective and wasteful. 
What is the actual situation in Aboriginal affairs at the present time? The majority of the housing associations are just getting on their feet. The majority of the business enterprises are just getting on their feet. There have been some real achievements. People are learning budgetary control within their businesses. That is not something that comes very easily. The cuts that have been made will disrupt the achievements being made and will disenchant the Aboriginal people. I think that this is the most important part. They will destroy the white-black relationship that has been built up over the past 3 years. 
-I did not know that there were a great many Aborigines in Tasmania. I have learnt a lot more about Aborigines than senators on the other side who are trying to interject. The problem is, of course, that the expertise of which we spoke earlier will be leaving. The managers of the housing associations to which  Senator Cavanagh  referred, those special sorts of tradesmen who had built up a good rapport with the Aboriginal people, will go. 
Let us consider the business enterprises. I wonder how many of our experts on the other side know the real value of a socio-economic enterprise, the one which has to be subsidised as it cannot be viable, because it is set up for something else. It is set up to provide employment for Aboriginal people in their own areas. It is set up in areas where it is known that the economic venture will not be viable. But it is set up on the sound proposition that it is far better to pay a subsidy than to have people sitting down and receiving unemployment benefits. Apart from this, food and services are being provided at extra cost, and clothing and craft factories have been developed. The cut in expenditure in this area is from $4m to $750,000. 1 refer also to the recreation and culture programs in the Aboriginal area- an area of particular interest to  Senator Webster  as most of these were run by the 
YMCA. Money has been provided only to maintain what is happening at present. There is not enough money for expansion in an area where much expansion is needed because of the present unemployment situation in the Northern Territory. We have hardly moved beyond the pilot stage and the chopper has come down. Again, this shows a lack of understanding of the real situation in the Territory. I make a strong plea at this stage to the 'ad hocracy', the economic planning or whatever it is called to continue the good work started by Labor in this vital area. 
I now move to the subject of roads. I will deal very briefly with new works and maintenance. There has been a cut of nearly 50 per cent in the new works for developmental roads. The 3-year program drawn up in 1974 and 1975 and prepared for the Public Works Committee hearing has been put off for 12 months. This means that there has been- I use that swear word again- a deferral. The best part of $ 19m has been saved at the expense of development and at the expense of the tourist industry. The picture with regard to road maintenance is even grimmer. At first sight there appears to be a cut of $lm- bad enough but not too bad. On investigation we see the real situation in which of the $ 10,600,000 appropriated for the Stuart and Barkly Highways only $3,400,000 will be spent. With respect to work carried over from last year, bringing the total to $ 12,800,000, only $5m will be spent. It is this duplicity which is the most disturbing factor in reading the Budget. 
The point that concerns territorians most is the fact that the standard of maintenance of roads in the Territory has fallen far below the accepted level. Thinking back to those wonderful little housekeeping homilies that we were treated to during the election campaign, I wonder whether the planners and the Government realise that a stitch in time does save nine and that there is a false economy in their policies. If the Government wishes to use those sorts of ideas it should do so. If it does not repair at the moment, it will have to rebuild later. I draw attention to the lack of co-ordination in terms of roads. The railways have gone and the  Darwin Trader  appears to be going. There is less money for road maintenance and even less for new expenditure. Is this the sign of an efficient Government, the one that presented itself as an alternative last year? The big firms will go and take their expertise with them so that when money is available we will not be able to do the job. The policies of replacement of labour are tending to drive people to contract labour which is not available in the Territory. We will have the criticisms of day labour and there will be nothing to replace it. 
I turn briefly to education. On the surface things look OK but  Senator Carrick  seems to have forgotten the long range planning that he talks about. Capital works have been cut. This means that the schools whose construction was planned in the next two or three years will not be built. They will not be ready when the children have grown up and are ready to move into them. What will happen? Obviously, demountables will be needed and these are expensive and not as good as permanent buildings. Demountables are difficult to move so they are quite often a write-off again. This is a wasteful, cents-wise dollar-foolish situation, brought about by a pointless adherence to an inappropriate policy. The worst aspects of this policy are the maintenance cuts. This is an area of absolute disaster. There is rapid deterioration in the Territory. If we lose a couple of windows in a demountable, at the end of the wet we have lost the floor as well. There must be maintenance. If we do not have maintenance the policies will be wasteful. We need to set a good example on the settlements and missions by keeping our buildings up to scratch. This opportunity will be lost because of the cut in maintenance funds. 
I have already spoken about the problem of staff ceilings in education. I have referred to the problem at a place such as Croker Island. I have spoken of the need for a pool of teaching assistants from which teachers could be drawn and utilised wherever they are needed. I just make the point to the Minister for Education that we in the Northern Territory are interested in staff and not money. There is little point in making money available if the staff ceilings mean that money cannot be spent. I have already mentioned the car hiring situation which is farcical. Perhaps a solution will come from the other side of the House. I hope we can see that come about. I mention once again the shortage of staff at Darwin Community College which means that courses cannot be made available and apprentices are forced to travel interstate for theneducation. 
I now move to the area of social welfare. One would think that in an area like Darwin, in the wake of a cyclone, there would be good social welfare services. Unfortunately, this is not so. We needed $ 1.2m to maintain general welfare at the 1975 level. We received $900,000. The appropriation for miscellaneous relief last year was $305,000. This year it is $120,000. In 1973-74, $1,383,000 was allocated for general welfare. In this Budget the figure is $903,000. There has been no allowance for inflation and no allowance for the growth which is needed in the Territory. There has been a rapid deterioration in the services available because of the reduction in funding and staff. I was talking yesterday to a social worker who told me that there is enough money in the deserted mothers fund to cater for 72 cases for the year. Last year, he was one of 14 social workers and he personally dealt with 76 cases. If one multiplies 14 by 72, one sees that there is not much money available. Services are falling well below standard in the areas of family welfare, child welfare, rehabilitation and parole. At present unfortunately almost nothing is being done for youth in the Northern Territory. There is some assistance to voluntary organisations but the youth section of the Department of the Northern Territory is not operating. 
It is fair to say that throughout the Territory virtually no welfare services are available in Aboriginal communities. The voluntary groups which are operating in the Territory and trying to fill the gap are extremely worried because they think they will not get support. The community creches, run by a particularly good organisation operating in Darwin, at the moment are operating on donations from the Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund and they are not sure what is going to happen when that money runs out. There is a move to repair the inappropriate rehabilitation and training centre that the  former  Liberal Government designed and built but the community, hopefully, has stopped it. There was a move to try to establish the only unit that perhaps we did not want. As I indicated earlier, there is no provision in the social welfare field for the physically and mentally handicapped. We have the shocking situation that a parent still has to have his child arrested and charged under the Mental Defectives Ordinance before assistance can be given to the child to travel interstate. 
Tourism is one of the Territory's largest industries and has perhaps the greatest potential. I realise that at the present time throughout Australia there is a slump, but there seems to be no reason why the Northern Territory tourist industry should be cut by approximately 25 per cent. To add to this, the vote for the public relations section of the Department of the Northern Territory dropped $51,000 and that for the Northern Territory Reserves Board was cut by $359,000. It is almost as if there was a policy designed to keep out the tourist. If one wanted to make a cliche one would say: 'No tell, no keep and, obviously, no care'. A lot of publicity has been given recently by the Minister to the fact that an inquiry to cost $30,000 has been instituted to look at the tourist industry. That sum is for 2 years. I think all honourable senators would have to admit that this is just a gesture because $30,000 would not pay the salary of the officer concerned with any sort of support for 2 years, let alone the travel and support that he would require. As I mentioned earlier, tourism has been affected by roads. A cut in the road maintenance will have an adverse effect on the tourist industry. 
Lastly, let me look at the beef industry and how it has been affected by the Budget. After some pressure assistance has been given to the beef industry this year, but we still have no clear picture of what the Government intends to do and we get no indication from looking at the Budget.  Senator Cotton,  the Minister for Industry and Commerce, made this statement the other day:  the appalling extent to which the average Australian, both employer and employee, expects the Government to come to his aid when the going gets tough. 
Then he said: 
Industry needs to realise that the high levels of support currently enjoyed in some areas must come to a gradual end . . . 
I trust this is not the policy which the Government is going to pursue with the beef industry in the Northern Territory. Assistance must be given, the sort of assistance that the Labor Government was giving, such as financial assistance in the terms of loans and rural reconstruction, although these things have been laughed at by honourable senators opposite. We need a strong advisory service within the Territory to give advice not only on how to raise beef but also on how to operate the stations, and we need more advice and assistance with marketing. There is no doubt that now the time is ripe for an investigation of the industry, the processing of the beasts and the marketing of the beasts. I welcome the emergence of the Pastoralists Union, the emergence of the small independent producer. For too long the larger companies, often foreign owned, have dominated the market. I and most others in the Territory would see the meatworks in the Territory operated by those involved in the industry, obviously with some Government backing. 
I think I have shown that the Budget has been a disaster for the Territory in those areas we have looked at and I am going to ask the Senate to support the amendment. If by chance the amendment is not carried, and I am told that that is a distinct possibility, I would ask the Government, in its  ad hocracy  or what it does in respect of economic planning, to consider the special needs of the Northern Territory: Let us have more realistic ceilings and appointment conditions for the Public Service. Let us have more government expenditure to stimulate the economy. Let us have a restoration of funds for Aboriginal housing and enterprises. Down here the National Country Party and Liberal Party group talk about turning on the lights. Their colleagues in the Northern Territory talk about putting the Territory back on its feet. This Budget leaves us flat on our backs in the dark. There is an old saying: 'With friends like these, who needs enemies?' I paraphrase that and say: 'With improvements like we see in the Budget, who needs problems?' I ask honourable senators to support the amendment and put us in the Territory back where we were under the Labor Government. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education. The Minister will be aware that the Executive Member for Education in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has called for an inquiry into all aspects of education in the Territory. Will the Minister please indicate to the Senate whether such an inquiry will be mounted? 
-The Minister for Social Security will be aware of the problems being faced at the present time by the community creches in Darwin. Can she give some indication of when a decision will be made concerning availability of funds to enable this most worthwhile service to continue operating? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Are new staff and funds to be made available this financial year to enable the Commonwealth Statistician to compile a consumer price index for Darwin. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government's decision to suspend the activities of the Interim Land Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Ward, placed in jeopardy some Aboriginal land claims that are also the subject of future negotiations with mining companies. 
Will the Government, in view of this situation, allow the Commissioner to continue sitting until the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill becomes Law. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Has the Government purchased a car for the personal use of the wife of the Administrator of the Northern Territory. If so, will the Minister indicate the details of the purchase, price paid, and whether the transaction was handled under Tender Board procedures. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the present position with regard to the building of a medical centre to serve the people of Groote Eylandt. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) On what dates has the Northern Territory Consultative Committee met since it was established earlier this year. 
Has consideration been given to including on this Committee a representative of the Australian Labor Party. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Has the royal assent been given to the Northern Territory Parks and Wildlife Conservation Ordinance 1976. If not, will the Government give an assurance that consultations will be arranged with Aboriginal groups to discuss the Ordinance, with particular reference to section 122 dealing with the traditional use of land and water by Aboriginals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister explain why the Government has withdrawn its direct grant to the Northern Territory Environmental Council, in view of the Prime Minister's election promise to continue urban programs. 
Will the Government, in line with its stated policy of support for community environmental organisations, be prepared to subsidise the Council on a realistic three-to-one basis as it is not able to raise sufficient funds to continue its vital work. 
-I present the following petition from 29 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct of indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general enquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the enquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-The Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory will be aware that before cyclone Tracy a proposition was put forward to enable people in Darwin to buy government land at reserve prices. The scheme was not proceeded with due to the disruption caused by the cyclone. Would the Minister indicate whether the Government intends to reintroduce the scheme and, if so, when this might be done? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory please indicate to the Senate what assistance is being made available to pastoralists and others who have suffered as a result of the recent bushfires in the Northern Territory? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received a submission from the Executive Member for Education and Law in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly concerning staff ceilings imposed on the Darwin Community College. If so, will the Minister indicate what levels of staffing the Government is considering and when these will take effect. 
-My question refers to an answer given by the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory on 23 September in reply to a question asked by me concerning the availability of assistance to pastoralists and others who had suffered as a result of the bush fires in the Northern Territory. On that occasion the Minister indicated that where benefits were thought to be necessary they would be made available. I am advised by the Department of the Northern Territory that no funds are available to give financial assistance to victims of the bush fires. Will the Minister indicate what steps are being taken to allocate funds to the Department for that purpose? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
When will the preliminary report of the Bureau of Transport Economics, relating to transportation in the Northern Territory, become available to the people of the Territory. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. In his annual report the Director-General of Social Security,  Mr Daniels,  has drawn attention to an alarming situation which exists at the Darwin office of the Department. He quoted figures to show that prior to the cyclone the Darwin office had a staff of thirty. After the cyclone only nine remained. The disturbing fact is that by June 1976, despite additional demands made on the office through an increase in unemployment, the staff had risen to only fifteen, one-half of the precyclone figure, to serve a population of 43 000. Will the Minister give an assurance that the staff at the Darwin office will be increased to the precyclone level to meet the needs of the Darwin community and to overcome the delays which have been the subject of previous questions from me during this year. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Are the States now in the position of ascertaining whether they can find any money for Australian Assistance Plan funding which is to be given to them at the end of the financial year. 
Has the Minister pointed out to the Ministers for the Capital Territory and the Northern Territory the virtues of the program, so that the Commonwealth will take responsibilities for the needs of its citizens in the Territories. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services, refers to the office accommodation provided for the Australian Legal Aid Office in Darwin. On 23 June the Attorney-General, in reply to a letter from me, wrote in these terms: 
I agree that the present accommodation is inadequate and unsuitable. 
He advised that the Minister for Administrative Services was having the matter investigated as a matter of urgency. In view of the fact that an additional staff member is to be appointed next week, I ask the Minister: What provision has been made for alternative accommodation for the office? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will the Minister undertake to have discussions with Co-ord, a transport company in the Northern Territory, to see what can be done to remedy the late arrival of containers transported by road to Katherine from Alice Springs. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs inform the Senate whether  Mr Hay  has completed his examination of the land claims submitted by or on behalf of Aborigines in the Northern Territory? If the inquiry has been completed, will the Minister indicate when  Mr Hay's  report will be tabled? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What arrangements have been made for restoring the Darwin Public Library and to provide library services to the people of that area? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Education. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Department of Education did not give the funding of Dripstone High School sufficient priority to enable it to be included in this year's estimates? Does the Minister believe that the estimates relating to secondary school age children in Darwin between 1 977 and 1 980 now indicate an urgent need for the immediate commencement of construction of a fourth high school? If so, will the Minister indicate when such a high school might be opened and available for use? Will the Minister indicate what plans the Government has to accommodate satisfactorily all secondary school age children in Darwin in the years 1978, 1979 and 1980; that is, until the completion of the fourth high school? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that there has been a good deal of concern over the use of members of the Defence Forces in the recent raid at Cedar Bay in Queensland? 
Will the Minister give an assurance that members of the Defence Forces will not in future be utilised in civil actions? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
When will telephones in the remote areas of the Northern Territory be connected to automatic exchanges. 
What method does the Government intend to use to effect its program. 
How much will it cost subscribers beyond the 12 kilometre mark per half kilometre. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister give approval for the return of a Volkswagen Kombi van to the Darwin Regional Council, seized on 2 1 September 1 976 in connection with an alleged contravention of the Customs Act, to enable the Council to carry out its valuable work in the Darwin area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What steps are being taken to allocate funds to the Department of the Northern Territory so as to enable the department to give financial assistance to victims of bushfires in the Northern Territory. 
I present the follow  ing petition from 180 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and hearing of Aboriginal claims. The hearing of Aboriginal claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions. Aboriginals should not be penalised. 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation from Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoralstations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
b) The control by Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on needs as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
The restoration of all powers vested in Land Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1975 Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to over-ride Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest be itself reviewed by both Houses of Parliament. 
A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory Borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. An advertisement in the  Australian Financial Review  of 8 November calls for an investor to develop in the Northern Territory a large international hotel complex, including a casino. The advertisement claims that local government assistance in the project is assured and says that the results of a feasibility study, together with Federal Government correspondence on the matter, will be made available. As the Lotteries and Gaming Ordinance of the Northern Territory does not make provision for casinos, will the Minister explain to the Senate the Federal Government's involvement and table the correspondence referred to in the advertisement? 
I wish to take a few minutes of the Committee's time to talk briefly on 2 aspects of unemployment in Aboriginal communities. I speak only briefly because the matter has been mentioned before but I rise because the situation certainly is no better but is getting worse. The first problem I mention is the problem of council workers employed by the village councilspeople who carry out the normal municipal functions in the Aboriginal communities. I have visited a number of these communities recently. I should like to give an example of one. The smaller communities are in trouble, not the larger ones. The example I wish to give is that of Ngukurr, which is on the Roper River. According to my information the money supplied by the Government will run out towards the end of November and from that time on 54 workers will receive unemployment benefit. I have reported this matter to the Director of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in the Northern Territory and perhaps something has been done. But the general principle remains the same- that the smaller communities are experiencing a lot of trouble. I bring this question to the attention of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle). 
The larger communities, as I have mentioned, do not have the same trouble. Probably because they have more money they have more flexibility. It is also a fact of course that some of the larger communities have industry, which many of the smaller ones do not have. I think the Minister will be aware of the problem of unemployment benefits in an Aboriginal community. I think  Senator Kilgariff  has already introduced into this place the phrase 'sit-down money'. This is what the unemployment benefit is regarded as. The problems of unemployment will be known to the Minister. Firstly the individual loses dignity and takes part in gambling and excessive drinking and so on. Of course then money is short and, as many people will know, it comes from the child endowment payments and from the age pensioners. When a large number of unemployed people are present within a community, that community disintegrates and lays itself open to that criticism which people are prepared so readily to give to Aboriginal communities. 
Another aspect of general unemployment is the lack of opportunities for young people. On the settlement I mentioned, the  chairman  of the group told me that not one person under the age of 20 years was in employment. This is a shocking situation. I am pleased to see that a working party has been set up to look at the training of Aboriginal people. But this has been done before, and my complaint is that unfortunately once again this is putting the cart before the horse. There is little point in training Aboriginal people if there are no employment opportunities. I suggest very strongly here that the creation of employment opportunities is the obvious first step. 
It has been quite clearly indicated to those of us who have been in Aboriginal communitiesmost honourable senators have- that Aboriginal people can learn trades and can learn them very quickly; but they must see the need for the training. They cannot see the point in training in isolation. Let us face it, why should they? There is no doubt that in the Northern Territory there has been a blueprint for training for Aboriginal people for many years. But I repeat that it is pointless implementing this blueprint unless there are employment opportunities. As we have mentioned before these in the main must be in the community, not away from the community. I do not think I need to go through the arguments for that again. The Department of Education has indicated that it can do its bit. Let us see the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of the Northern Territory do theirs. 
I move to the second problem that I want to mention, and that is the problem of the Aboriginal public servant. I have spoken before- I notice again that  Senator Kilgariff  raised this matter tonight- about the inappropriateness of Public Service procedures in the Northern Territory. I do not need to go through the details;  Senator Kilgariff  has mentioned them for the Committee. I use as an example again the community to which I referred earlier. While I was visiting that community the head teacher indicated to me that there was a shortage of teaching assistants, those Aboriginal people who are so vital in the education program and who assist the teachers. As soon as I got back to Darwin I went to see the Director of Education who told me that there were 40 vacancies for teacher assistants but that the applications for those vacancies could not be processed through the Public Service. 
What a ludicrous situation it is that out on the settlements we have a need for these people, the teachers are screaming out for the assistants, the assistants need the jobs to get the money, and yet the procedures have been set up in such a way that these people are prevented from being employed. I ask the Minister for Social Security to ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to look at this Public Service procedure. Surely something can be done. The obvious thing to do is to give authority to the local Public Service inspector to approve of such appointments rather than the cases having to come to Canberra for consideration. There is growing up in the Northern Territory a general feeling that the procedures are a devious device to avoid spending money. Perhaps I am naive, but I cannot believe that that is so. The small amount of money that would be be saved would be saved at a great social cost. 
So I ask the Minister to look at a couple of areas. Firstly I ask him to look at the employment situation in the Northern Territory to get a clear picture of just how critical it is. Then in the short term perhaps some money could be provided to the Aboriginal communities to help to keep them running. That money could be provided in the form of project money, of which the Minister will be aware. Certainly keeping a community running can be seen as a special project when we have the situation of 54 people from a small community such as that on the Roper River being out of work. The Minister has plenty of other opportunities such as those provided by the Regional Employment and Development scheme and other schemes to supply that money. In the longer term, surely we can develop industries among the Aboriginal communities so that there will be employment opportunities for the Aboriginal people. If we are going to have an investigation surely we should investigate that matter rather than the techniques of training. 
I notice that some thought has been given to paying the unemployment benefit in a large sum to the councils on the communities. I would caution the Minister against doing that. It seems to me that it would create too many problems. Surely a direct grant would be a better way in which to handle the situation. However, I know that that matter is being investigated. As a special plea in this area I ask that special consideration be given to young people. No one under 20 years of age is employed from the small community to which I have referred. What point is there in having an education program if there are no employment opportunities at the end of that program? In the second area, I ask the Minister to look at the Public Service procedures and to consider the situation that exists in the Northern Territory. If we need a more unusual example of the problem of the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory, perhaps I should refer to those Aborigines who move out of their jobs more frequently than others. Perhaps the first step towards overcoming the problems involved in that regard would be to give the local Public Service inspector power to approve the appointment of these people to positions. In conclusion, I support what my colleague,  Senator Kilgariff,  said about the health situation in the Northern Territory. It is good to see that the wonderful programs initiated by Doug Everingham are appreciated and will be continued. 
I present the following petition from 1 7 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1 976 does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 1 2 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and nearing of Aboriginal claims. The hearing of Aboriginal claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions, Aboriginals should not be penalised; 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation from Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control of Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on need as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
The restoration of all powers vested in Lands Councils and the Land Commissioner in die 1975 Land Rights Bill . . . 
A provision that any Government decision to over-ride Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest be itself reviewed by both Houses of Parliament. 
A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia do humbly pray that the Australian Government: 
Extend the freeze of alienation of vacant Crown land in the Northern Territory. 
Give urgent consideration to amendments to the Northern Territory (Land Rights) Bill 1976 to give effect to: 
The restoration of the role of land councils and the Land Commissioner. 
The removal of distinction between 'needs' and traditional claims. 
The re-introduction of the 1975 Land Rights Bill's provisions regarding mining. 
The withdrawal of power from the Northern Territory Assembly to make laws over sacred sites, permits and entry to pastoral properties. 
The control of all roads throughh Aboriginal land being held by the Aboriginal people themselves. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 92 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government will: 
Take heed of this Petition in respect of the proposed closure of the Alice Springs Railhead. 
Accept that such closure, before the completion of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Rail Link, would: 
Cause massive disruption to Northern Territory transport links. 
Impose an even greater freight penalty on the Central Pastoral Industry. 
Result in the loss of employment to Railway Staff and staff employed in ancillary industries. 
) Require ancillary industries to undertake a major reequipment and relocation program, to deal with road freight deliveries for a short term operation. 
Overtax the sub-standard road to South Australia and reduce the number of transport links to southern and eastern States by placing total reliance for deliveries on this unreliable, damaging and dangerous highway. 
Result in higher freight costs which must be reflected in increased charges for consumer goods. 
Further reduce the Defence capacity of Northern Australia. 
Have a detrimental effect upon the Tourist Industry which is vita) to the Northern Territory economy. 
Agree that the proposal disregards the National responsibility to develop and defend Northern Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I am surprised at some of the introductory comments made by  Senator Martin.  Personally, I found  Senator Melzer  's speech very much to the point regarding the problems of apprenticeship. She stressed the problems that are faced by apprentices. No doubt, in the work that she had before she came here, she would have had experience of several hundreds of these problems.  Senator Martin  also questioned the emphasis that we place on technical and further education. I thought it would be fairly obvious by comments which have been made by many speakers today that technical and further education has been chosen for special attention because it is an area of great need, and the area is one which has been overlooked for many years. I was interested to hear one of the earlier speakers on the other side say that this matter was looked at 16 or 20 years ago. The only comment that I could make is that one would never know because, until fairly recently, very little had been done in the field of technical and further education. 

 Senator Martin also spoke at some length about Aboriginal education. I can understand her interest in the subject when I look at the standard of Aboriginal education in the State from which she comes. The system in the- Northern Territory is not without its defects. But there is no doubt that in the years 1972 to 1975 there were some quite significant advances, I feel. As a matter of fact, I am rather tempted to launch into these advances and comment on what  Senator Martin  has said. But obviously I would use up time which I had hoped to use on something else. Let  Senator Martin  be assured that I certainly appreciate her interest. 1 would welcome the opportunity of showing her some of the things that have happened in the Northern Territory. I think there is much evidence of the achievements of the last 3 years. If perhaps we could do that, it might as she says help her to educate herself. At the same time, she could educate me by telling me what she means by 'sacred cow' and 'noble savages'. 
I rise to support the amendment and to speak generally on the 8 Bills. I think that is a much better proposition than to spend a few minutes on each Bill. I make no apology for the fact that I will relate my comments to the Northern Territory. I have said before in this place that I see my role quite clearly here as being to put the case for the Northern Territory and to speak about it. But that is not the only reason why I will relate my comments to the Northern Territory. 
There are two very good reasons why I should do so. The first, as  Senator Martin  has quite clearly said, is that the Government has particular responsibilities for the Northern Territory, directly in the running of the schools and indirectly, perhaps, in the assistance which is given to the people in the Northern Territory, the same as it is given to people in the various States. This is why the Bills that we are discussing tonight become particularly relevant. 
There is a second reason. This is that we in the Territory are moving towards statehood or some form of autonomy. I think it is most important that we at this stage start to enter at the lower level, as it were, and help to get ourselves adjusted to this new role that we are to have. 
The first comment that I wish to make is to mention ACENT- the Advisory Committee on Education in the Northern Territory. I have mentioned this before, but I must again bring it to the attention of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  I ask the Minister once again to give serious consideration to the establishment of the Advisory Committee on Education in the Northern Territory. The Minister and others will recall that last year there was a meeting- a particularly representative meeting- to discuss the setting up of ACENT. Some very good recommendations came out of this meeting, but up to this point, although there has been a report, nothing has been done. If we see this as a step towards our own authority and our own autonomy as the Australian Capital Territory has, we ought to see the setting up of ACENT as being the necessary first step. It can, as it were, set the scene for what is to happen later. I make a plea to the Minister to look again at the establishment of an advisory committee on education in the Northern Territory. 
The second area I would like to look at is the involvement of parents and the community generally in education. I was most encouraged tonight to hear  Senator Knight  say that this is a plank in the Liberal-National Country Party platform. The Government parties want to see community involvement. I was a little disturbed earlier this week to hear the Minister, in reply to a question, comment about parental involvement. He had been questioned about whether there were any parents on a committee, and he made the point that people who were on the committee were themselves parents and this satisfied the need of parents being represented. I must put to him very strongly that of course this is not so. It is illogical to suggest that simply because a person is a parent he necessarily represents the views of the parents of a particular group any more than a teacher would necessarily represent the views of all teachers. So I would ask the Minister to look at this point carefully. If we are to have parents on a committee, let some organisation of parents select people who reflect their views, who are able to collate the views of the various parents and who have some accountability to these parents for what they say. We will recall, of course, that the Labor Government set aside a certain amount of money in its Budget to support and encourage parental involvement in education. I notice that none has been set aside by the present Government. This seems a great pity. 
I draw to the Minister's attention the next topic I wish to mention- the Katherine Rural College. We all know, because of a report that has been presented to the Minister, that a very good committee was set up to look at the needs of technical and further education and agricultural education in the Northern Territory. It made a study of the situation and presented a very good report. It came up with some very clear indications of a need for training in the Northern Territory and the need to provide agricultural and technical education to all young people in the Northern Territory- not only the Aboriginal people but also the European people, but it did identify a special need for Aboriginal people. The Schools Commission report states: 
We recognise that a serious problem exists in the field of technical education with regard to Aboriginal people. In our experience one feature of successful schemes for the education of Aborigines has been the recognition that a special approach is necessary. 
Honourable senators will recall that in this place I have mentioned a number of times the need for training for Aboriginal young people and the need to train them in their own communities. It is interesting that the Katherine Rural College Planning Committee said much the same thing. In its report it said: 
Aboriginal students be encouraged to enroll in short intensive courses at the College, with the bulk of the training being given in the home community. 
I repeat: 
. with the bulk of the training being given in the home community. 
I think it is clear from what I said earlier that the Katherine Rural College, like colleges in other areas, could act as a centre from which trainers would take their equipment from the college and work in the community. Some short courses would be offered for those people who need them and the rest could be taken out to the community. The Katherine Rural College Planning Committee also drew attention to the need for training of apprentices. This ties in well with what  Senator Melzer  said earlier. At present too many people are going outside the Territory for their training. Too many are going to Queensland and southern centres to get the training which they ought to be able to get in the Northern Territory. As I have mentioned before in this place, the Darwin Community College cannot cope with the needs of the apprentices because of the shortage of staff brought about by staff ceilings; but that does not mean that at this stage we should not draw attention once again to the need for centres to be set up within the Territory for the training of apprentices. Not only is it expensive to send young people interstate but it is also highly undesirable. I think parents will agree that it is much better to have the young men and women stay at home than go interstate. If training is offered within the Territory young people will not be forced into taking education in the long blocks but rather can perhaps attend on a day basis if that is thought to be desirable. As it is now, if people have to move interstate they must go for a long period to cut down on the cost of expensive travel. So I would urge the Minister to see the establishment of the Katherine Rural College as a real priority. It has suffered the fate of quite a number of other things at the moment. It has been cut out. 
I move to the education of the isolated children. I was very pleased to hear  Senator Davidson,  who is the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts, comment on this subject. I had rather hoped that perhaps  Senator Martin  and some other members of that Committee would comment on what is a very important area. I was a member of the Committee for only a short time, so I can say without any conceit that its report is a very good report with some very good recommendations. The whole area was very well researched over a period of three to four years, and the Committee came up with some very good recommendations which I suggest the Minister might well look at. I was certainly a member of the Committee long enough to see the problems faced by isolated children and their parents. In the area of education and what was offered to the children, particularly the older students who were looking perhaps at secondary education up to matriculation level the basic problems for parents were finance and the picking up of their children and so on. All these things have been explained very carefully in the report. I urge the Minister to consider all the Committee's recommendations. I will mention a small number on which action could be taken immediately. Recommendation No. 5 states: 
The Commonwealth Government review its educational policy in the Northern Territory to ensure equal education opportunity for both Aboriginal and European children. 
There are a number of reasons why this has been put in. There is certainly what some people have called a white backlash in the Northern Territory. Some of the people living in remote areas felt that the amount of money that was being spent on Aboriginals was in excess of what was being spent on the European children, and there was some reaction. I have my own views on the greater needs of the Aboriginal child, but one can see why the European parent should take the view he has. I commend the Committee's recommendation as a very strong recommendation. Recommendation No. 1 1 states: 
The payment of benefits under the Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme to be continued and that levels of assistance and application of the means test for additional allowances be reviewed annually so that allowances are paid at a rate commensurate with education expenditure. 
There is no doubt that the Minister has had plenty of information on this matter. I have personally sent him a number of letters and a number of telegrams which I have received from parents who have complained about the small amount of assistance which is available to the parents of isolated children. Action could be taken on that recommendation immediately. Another one on which action could be taken immediately states: 
The Government examine the taxation deductions presently allowable for educational expenses incurred by parents with a view to increasing the maximum deduction allowable. 
Action could be taken on that in the very near future. Another recommendation states: 
The Commonwealth Government review as a matter of urgency those decisions which have resulted in making mail delivery services financially prohibitive for families in remote areas. 
Obviously education in remote areas cannot be based on correspondence without using the mail system. The mail system has made the cost of correspondence education prohibitive to some parents. Certainly some assistance could be given in this area. The last recommendation I mention- I would like to read all of them- is recommendation No. 21, which states: 
The second component of the Correspondence Allowance paid as reimbursement of expenditure on the employment of a governess or domestic help be increased and regularly reviewed by the Commonwealth Government. 
I have mentioned only those matters which are of direct concern to the Commonwealth Government because they are matters on which the Minister can take action almost immediately. I recommend strongly to him, as  Senator Davidson  did, that he look at these recommendations which have been put forward in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. 
I move to the area of special education, particularly as it relates to the Northern Territory, although it is something which applies to the whole of Australia. I was very pleased to hear the Minister outline his philosophy on special education. Strangely enough, it is identical with my own. Honourable senators may recall that he suggested in the case of a child needing special assistance or special education that he should be given a number of alternatives. He should be educated with his peer groups as the first choice. He should be allowed to remain in the class with the rest of the children of his own age. If that is not possible, the second choice is to put the child in the class and withdraw him for short periods to give him assistance. If that is not particularly appropriate, the third choice is to have a class in the school building so that the child can be in contact during recess times and in the general context of the school with his own age group. 
It has been tried in the Northern Territory and it is a good system. The fourth choice is to have a separate building, and the final choice is to send the child interstate. As I said before, I agree entirely with the proposition put forward by the Minister but I would remind him that, unless it is to be only a pious hope, it needs some assistance. A system like that cannot be run unless the Government is prepared to outlay some finance and make some arrangements. The first step is that the teachers who are working with these children would need to have teacher aides to assist them. So the present staff ceilings will have to take a bit of buffeting. We will have to have a look at the need for teacher aides. I have already drawn this matter to the Minister's attention and I am pleased to say that earlier this year he was able to give us some encouragement by making more people available. But we still need more in this area. We are going to need more teachers- not many more but a few more- because obviously such a child cannot be put into the class and be counted as one student. He would normally be counted as five. More equipment will be needed to meet the special needs of this child and there will need to be adequate teacher training to prepare the teachers to move in and work with these children. This is an important point which is relevant. 
It may be appropriate at this stage to mention the area of teacher training. I certainly do not intend to enter into the argument of whether we should educate our teachers or train our teachers. Most educators take a view on this subject. Some say that we educate in universities and that we train in colleges. There is some sort of suggestion that the training may be a lower level than the education. I do not intend to enter that debate. What I am concerned with is that we prepare the teachers to move in and implement the objectives of the Department. I think that that is a very broad definition which is suitable. Unfortunately, there is some concern in the Northern Territory that the preparation of teachers up to this time has not been adequate. In fact the Northern Territory chapter of the Australian College of Education has been moved to mount a survey to find out whether teachers have been adequately prepared, how they themselves see their training, how the children see the training and how the administrators or supervisors see the training. I hope that perhaps later I will be able to present the results of that survey. 
Teachers in the Northern Territory have special needs. I know that that is said in relation to every State but we must look at the situation in the Northern Territory, we must think of the numbers of Aboriginal schools, we must think of the problems of special education where the teachers are removed from contact with their colleagues and are unable to get advice and assistance as can perhaps be done between Sydney and Melbourne or between Melbourne and the suburbs. The other factor is the high migrant population. I think that I ought to say something about migrant education because the funds in this area have been cut. This is an area of particular interest to the Northern Territory. We have a high migrant population. I suppose that it would be as high as anywhere else in Australia, if not the highest. There is need for a lot more assistance than is being given at the present time both for children and for adults. I have mentioned before the need for a migrant centre. Perhaps the Minister would be prepared to discuss with his colleagues the possibility of establishing a migrant centre for Darwin which could not only service the children and adults of the Darwin area but also act as a centre for the rest of the Territory. There is need for more programs within industry. Again this means that we want more staff. There is need for special assistance with home education. As many honourable senators would know, there are some ethnic groups in which the women of the family are not allowed to go out to classes. That particular group represents a high percentage of the migrant population of Darwin. We ought to be able to provide education for these people, not only in English but also perhaps in general broadening of civic knowledge. 
I have paid tribute before to the schools set up for the Timorese refugees. Honourable senators will recall that at the time of the most disturbing situation in Timor quite a number of Timorese people came to Darwin-Chinese Timorese and indigenous Timorese- and we were able to set up very quickly and very effectively a school to meet the needs of those children. Let us have the same son of speed in setting up schools for the other migrant populations of Darwin. I draw attention also to the need for the Department to move progressively to Darwin. As I mentioned before, we are moving towards a situation of autonomy within the Territory and hopefully we will soon have our own authority. Let us move towards this situation by establishing all sections of the Department in the Darwin area. Obviously it would be more efficient. Obviously it would be more responsive to local needs. There have been some problems this year with planning which may not have happened had the planning branch been in Darwin rather than in Canberra. I have no doubt that this will strike a chord with the Minister because it would be in keeping with his federalism policy. 
I must not finish without mentioning the Dripstone school, about which the Minister has received a few letters and about which a petition has been lodged. I know that the Minister is very conscious of the situation in Darwin. I will not canvass the arguments that were put forward before but I ask the Minister if perhaps later he could confirm that the building will start in March of next year, as the rumours have it. I mention also the Darwin Community College. I have raised this matter before and I have raised the problems that are faced by the College because of the shortage of staff. I do not think that I need to put the arguments again. All we need from the Minister is a little sympathetic consideration of the problems faced by the Darwin Community College. 
To sum up, I ask the Minister when he is considering these Bills to look at the establishment of the Advisory Committee on Education in the Northern Territory as a step towards our own authority within the Territory and as an involvement of the parents and the community generally in the education scene in Darwin. I ask him to look at the possibility of establishing the Katherine Rural College in the very near future to meet the needs of the rural area. I ask him to look at the needs of isolated children, to take account of what  Senator Davidson  has said and to take account of the financial hardships suffered by the parents, to which I have just briefly alluded. I ask him to look at special education and at the particular needs of the Northern Territory where at the present time it looks as though the philosophy which he espoused is not currently being followed. The last area that I mention is that of teacher education. 
I conclude my few words tonight with a quotation from  Dr Anderson  who would be well known to the Minister, who gave an address to the May conference of the Australian College of Education. The address was entitled  Labor's Achievements in Australian Education 1972-1975.  Dr Anderson  had this to say in conclusion: 
At the beginning of this paper I referred to the general sense of excitement which permeated education circles in the early days of a Labor Government. That excitement now perhaps seems a long way off, a long time ago. In the wake of a euphoria of spending has come the more sober mood in education today. At this point, however, there appear to be important new directions in Australian education, directions embodying partnerships which in former dmes were only dreamt about. 
I suggest to the Minister that we do not destroy those new directions about which Professor Anderson spoke, but build on them and continue the good work. 
-The Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory has no doubt read in today 's  Australian  that an independent member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has criticised the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund for the allocation of sums of money in the Fund for a proposed community cultural centre in Darwin. That member has suggested that the money be recalled and distributed to what she describes as people in distress. As  chairman  of the Trust Fund, what action does the Minister for the Northern Territory intend to take to counter the criticism raised by the independent member? Does he intend to re-form the committee which disbanded when the final allocation of funds was made on 30 September? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
In view of the lack of a composite set of accounts on which to base an analysis of the Northern Territory's financial arrangements, how does the Treasurer intend to establish a relationship between the level of expenditure and the total level of taxes and charges to be levied in the Northern Territory. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What was the purpose of referring the Bureau of Transport Economic 's report on the provision of general cargo facilities at Darwin to the Department of Construction. 
If the Department was directed to review the cost of the Bureau's proposal for a land-backed wharf, has the review been completed. If so, what are the findings. 
Will the Minister give an assurance that some action will be taken in the near future to upgrade the wharf facilities at Darwin. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the 
Northern Territory. I ask: Has legal action been taken against the Department of the Northern Territory following the slaughter in October this year of SOO privately owned and branded cattle on the Daly River Wildlife Sanctuary? I further ask: Has the Government made an offer to the 2 parties concerned, Tipperary Station and the Unia Association, to settle out of court? If so, what was the quantum of compensation offered? Will the Minister ask the Minister for the Northern Territory to make a public statement on the matter to explain how, during the control exercise, SOO privately owned and branded cattle were slaughtered? What steps have been taken to ensure that such an incident does not occur again? 
As other speakers on this Bill have indicated, the purpose of the Bill is to amend legislation enacted under the Labor Government to provide $15m to match the States dollarfordollar in approved lending in 1976-77 under the beef carry-on finance scheme. I would call this a scheme to provide low interest finance to specialist beef producers who would be viable in normal market conditions. I find the amount of $15m very interesting. It has been indicated earlier that in August 1975 the present Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  when talking about the Labor Bill, said that $39.6m was not enough and that the National Country Party suggested that $100m was necessary. Now that that Party has the opportunity to provide funds, we find that it is suggesting that $15m will be sufficient. I think it would be agreed by all honourable senators that the situation in Australia is much worse now than it was in August 1975. This deterioration has been brought about to a degree by  Mr Sinclair's  action in Canada earlier this year and by actions of the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, in Washington. Both of these visits were reported on in the  Australian Financial Review  of 1 December. The article states: 
Three things rankle with Administration officials: What is seen as tardy action by Australia to cease using the loophole' of the Puerto Rico free-trade zone for getting meat into the U.S. market. 
Similar reluctance to deal with the problem of low-priced Australian beef coming into Canada, thereby sending Canadian beef onto the U.S. market. 
The strongly-worded letter of protest sent by Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser to President Ford shortly after quotas were finally introduced in October. 
The  Australian Financial Review  went on: 
. America's toughened stand on Australian meat imports. 
It is likely to be carried through into next week's negotiations, where Australia could be hard-pressed to improve on this year's import entitlement, under quotas, of 632 million pounds. 
What I want to do is to comment on the situation in the Northern Territory, rather than on the Australian scene, and on the problems faced by the industry there. In case honourable senators are under any delusion that there are no problems in the Territory, I cite 3 comments made by 3 leading Country-Liberal Party members in the Northern Territory.  Dr Letts,  the Majority Leader in the Legislative Assembly, said: 
General economic crisis in the Australian beef industry has been more severe in the Northern Territory in its effects than in other beef producing areas. 

 Mr Les MacFarlane, who is the  President  of the Legislative Assembly, was reported in the  Northern Territory News  of 6 May 1976 as follows: 
MLA  Mr Les  MacFarlane of Moroak Station said today that the Territory's cattle industry had suffered a disaster comparable with Cyclone Tracy. 

 Mr Rex Jettner, who is the  Chairman  of the Primary Producers Board and, I understand, the  President  of the Country-Liberal Party, was reported as follows: "The Territory beef industry was near the stage of total collapse', the  Chairman  of the Primary Producers Board,  Mr Rex  Jettner said today. 'Without Government input the industry was at the point of no-return for many producers and there would be 'poverty-stricken evacuation of properties'.' 
Let us look at the situation in the Northern Territory. I think it is fair to say that the Northern Territory is different from the rest of Australia for a number of reasons. Perhaps we can look at the reasons why the Territory is different and why it needs different treatment. The first is that the Territory beef producer is basically in a monoculture situation. The majority of beef producers in Australia, as honourable senators would know, have either mixed or alternative propertieseither cattle running with wheat, sheep, dairy cows, vealers and so on, or cattle running in conjunction with cropping, such as sorghum in Queensland. Where there is this sort of diversification the producer does not have all his eggs in the one basket, as one might say, and he is not as hard hit when the industry collapses. In the Territory producers produce beef or nothing. When beef fails the people are really in trouble. 
The second problem- I call it a problem because I think it is a problem- is the dependence on the United States market. In the Territory 95 per cent of the industry is concerned with export marketing and the bulk of the exports go to the 
United States, mainly in what is called the 'certain class' of beef which is desired by the United States. Of course, that is a very fickle market. If that particular market for that certain class of beef goes, the industry is in trouble. The second reason why I think it is a problem that we are related so much to the United States is that United States standards of slaughtering are very high. I am not critical of this; but, as I shall explain later, this has an effect within the industry. 
Another problem for the Northern Territory is that the beef industry is seasonal. That means that there is a cash flow only during the dry season. The cost of slaughtering in the Northern Territory is much higher. Figures given to me by one of the producers indicate that in 1975 slaughtering cost $83.60 in the slaughter house or the abattoirs. There are problems associated with seasonal workers. These people have to be accommodated, have to be brought in from interstate and have to have particular conditions negotiated for them. This all adds to the problems in the Northern Territory. It is not a stable situation. Of course, as the industry is seasonal, it cannot take advantage of market fluctuations. There are vast distances to be covered in the Northern Territory. I know that this problem is shared by Queensland and Western Australia, but only to a degree. I think it would be agreed that the majority of producers in Queensland would be nearer the abattoirs than are most of the producers in the Territory. Certainly, there are vast distances to be covered, compared with those in the southern States. 
I should like to commend the Government for the fact that the Minister for Primary Industry did make available to the producers in the Northern Territory 25 per cent of the freight costs, which is a great help to the producers. I think that that figure might rise in some areas to 50 per cent. As I said before, different conditions exist in the Northern Territory; therefore the problems require different treatment. I shall come back to that a little later. Let us look at the situation today. We have had 2 good seasons in the Northern Territory, yet we have declining markets. I should like to read a telegram which is a little abrupt but which gives the story. The following is taken from the  Northern Territory Rural News Magazine: 
The economist for the Northern Territory Primary Producers Board says that it can be seen that there have been dramatic increases in labour costs, freight charges and fixed costs, that is, administration and finance, overhead, depreciation, maintenance, stores, selling expenses and katherine freezing storage. While these cost factors soared the price paid for beef on the U.S. market has risen only IS cents per kg since 1969, from 89 cents in 1969 to 104 cents a kilo in 197$. The result has been that while producers received 62.08 per cent of the price paid for their beef in 1 969, in 1 975 they scored only 1 8.77 per cent. 
So not only have the markets deteriorated but also there has been a decline in the return. This decline in markets has led to a serious situation, which would be known to many honourable senators here, of too many cattle in the Territory. Most of the properties have too many cattle, are overstocked and have all the problems which go with overstocking. It was mentioned by one of the honourable senators who spoke this afternoon that there was encouragement given by  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Sinclair  a few years ago for people to build up the cattle numbers on their properties. At the moment, since we cannot sell these cattle, we have all the problems that go with overstocking- destruction of pastures, erosion and se on. So I repeat that not only have the markets not improved, they have declined, but also the return to the producer is much less than it was 6 years ago. So it is not surprising to learn that most of the pastoralists in the Northera Territory are in a debt situation. They need cash flow at present and I will come to that in a moment. 
The degree of the problem in the Territory might be assessed more easily if we note that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has revealed that there was a loss of $ 1 3m in the industry in 1975-76. Unfortunately the result of this is that management on properties is being wound down. Fences that ought to be repaired are not being repaired. Pasture that ought to be looked after and improved is not being looked after let alone being improved, and there is no attempt at stock improvement. The situation is so drastic that one of the senior officers of the department said to me that there is a possibility of returning to an almost no management situation with no fences and the stock running wild. Men all over the Territory are leaving their stations to the bank and walking off. I had another letter today from one of the leading pastoralists in the Territory indicating that yet another group of men had been forced to walk off their properties and leave them to the bank. This means a loss of skills to the Territory. People who have worked in the Territory for years and have built up great expertise in the beef industry are walking off and it is very unlikely that they will be coming back. So we have a situation today where there is a general feeling of lack of confidence and this is not surprising. 
Let me sum up briefly the reasons for this lack of confidence. Firstly, access to markets is being restricted despite devaluation. Secondly, shipping freights are continually rising. It has been indicated that most freights to the United States will rise by 22 per cent on top of the 12 per cent announced in October. This will make it almost impossible for producers in the Territory to ship out to the United States. The cost of food, fertilisers, veterinary supplies and so on are all increasing at present and despite the fact that people involved in the industry are Country Party people there is a lack of confidence in the current Government's handling of the economy. My feeling is that in the Territory, and this has been put to me by a number of people, there is a lack of confidence in long range planning. We must plan at least two or three years ahead when running a station and when we have a limited killing season we can have no confidence in the Government. 
Most people would sum up the major problem in the Northern Territory in one word- 'markets ' -and this was suggested on both sides of the House during the debate. But it is not only that. I want to make the point quite strongly that responsibility for finding markets lies with the Department of the Northern Territory or the Government, because the Government is the Department of the Northern Territory. The department has to admit that over the years very Little, if anything, has been done by it to find markets and the reason for this of course is that it does not have the staff to do the job. It is no criticism of the department if it does not have the staff. Let us look at some of the possibilities that could be investigated in the Northern Territory. In 1974 an Egyptian living in Katherine, who is known to a number of Territory people and is now an Australian citizen, went home to Egypt for a holiday. When he came back he made the suggestion to the cattle producers around the Katherine area that they should sell to Egypt and that they should kill the cattle according to the religious traditions of the Islamic faith- because there was a good market in Egypt. Unfortunately, for some reason the Katherine meat works was not interested. The Cattlemen's Association went cold and Western Australia got the market, not that I deny it to Western Australia. It went out and looked for it. 
The Northern Territory needed this market and could have done a lot with it. Unfortunately, producers in the Territory got the feeling from this exercise that the public servants were not really interested in the industry and this feeling pervades a number of associations in the Territory. It is a great pity that this opportunity was lost. Surely it is an indication that the Department of the Northern Territory and the pastoralists should work together to look for markets. Obviously it is not enough for just the department to do it. The pastoralists are the ones who are particularly interested. Let them get together and go looking for markets. We are very close to Asia. Surely we could send a small team to look at the possibility of markets over there. The information that has been given to me is that there is a possibility of 7500 tonnes being sold on the Asian market. This would be basically in small lots but 7500 tonnes is quite an amount and would help the industry in the Northern Territory. 
I now come back to the problem I hinted at before, the high cost of killing. The figure given to me was $83.60 and this was based on United States standards. The Katherine meatworks did not have an automatic plant. Perhaps we could look at the possibility of killing by Australian standards. If these are acceptable to Australia they should be acceptable to Asia. There is one pastoralist in the Northern Territory who is selling buffalo on the South Australian market at 23.5c a pound and making a profit. Perhaps we could look at the technique that he is using to see whether it could be transferred to the other areas of the beef industry. So let us look into the possibility of selling beef to Asia. 
Another area which certainly could be investigated is the possibility of live exports. I attended a meeting two or three weeks ago which was called at the insistence of the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union to have a look at the possibility of selling livestock overseas. The department was represented, the buyers were represented, there was one pastoralist and one member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I was there representing the Australian Labor Party. It seemed to me to be an excellent way for the industry to have a look at itself for the buyers, the producers and the unions to get together to see what could be done. The information given to us there was that there is a potential market for 25 000 beasts a year. Certainly there would have to be some assistance given by the Government. The excellent wharf which used to be at Darwin was pulled down a few years ago. To replace it would cost $100,000 including providing permanent races and yard facilities. Portable facilities could be set up for $50,000. It seems to me that the Government might look into that matter as an excellent investment and as a way of getting some of the cattle moving out of the Northern Territory. 
Another suggestion which was made to me by one pastoralist in the Northern Territory, and it might make some people smile, is flying out the surplus young cattle. Apparently the possibility is there. For about $100 a head we could send the young stock overseas. This would of course include some breeding stock. 
-That is right-flying out the live beast. Is this figure of $100 reasonable? 
It is not being stopped in the Territory, shipping through Darwin. 
It was the union which took the initiative here to get the live export market moving. It was not the producers or the department, it was the union. 
It was Prendiville in this case. This is something that might be worthwhile looking at. I move now to one of the problems in the industry and that is the meatworks or abattoirs. I will look basically at the Northmead works near Katherine which, as most honourable senators will know, is 46 per cent owned by the Hooker Corporation and at the present time is run by the Wyndham group. The meatworks at Katherine has been a problem for some years. The previous owners claimed that they did not make a profit at any time. Certainly last year they had some trouble opening and honourable senators might recall that the Labor Government lent it $1.4m on very favourable terms to get the meatworks operating. This year they opened late, and I think the basic problem was industrial trouble caused by certain unusual conditions of wages which had been set by the former operator. However, I do not want to go into that. As I mentioned previously, the equipment is not up to date, the plant is labour intensive, and the method of handling damages the carcass and reduces its value. I am advised by the people there that the abattoir needs to handle 30 000 carcasses a year to be reasonably efficient. This year it handled 13 500, with a return to the grower of $300,000. There is a need for automation; there is no doubt about that. It has been said for years, and I hope that the new owners of the plant will look at that. There is also a need for better communications between management and the workers. Seasonal workers or itinerant workers present something of a problem and require a different handling situation. Certainly, it is my observation that there is a need for better communication than exists at the present time. 
At one stage  Mr Sinclair  said 'a beef crisis was a social and economic crisis'. May I briefly look at the social and economic crisis in the Northern Territory. I shall deal firstly with the families who live on the stations. Mostly they are people who have lived there all their lives. Many of them were born and grew up on the stations and are second generation families. They have problems in educating their children and providing opportunities for them. I will not elaborate on this, but I bring it to the attention of the Senate. I draw attention also to the problems of the Aboriginal stockmen. I have raised this matter before in the chamber without getting an answer. I suggested then that unemployed stockmen should be kept on the station and that preferably employment should be found for them but certainly they should be given social security benefits and not forced to gravitate to the smaller towns to live on the fringes. 
Those are the 2 main points I wanted to deal with. May I suggest very briefly, because I know we want to move on, what the Government might do about the situation in the Territory at the present time. The first thing is obvious, and that is to assist with finance, to accept the Industries Assistance Commission recommendations and look at debt reconstruction, either by extending the payment time for loans or preferably by making a grant. There is no reason why we cannot write off some of these debts. I think that is the advice which  Mr Sinclair  has given and which was referred to earlier today. No State-type situation exists in the Territory and it is therefore the responsibility of the Federal Government to look at the problem. 
We need household support for the people living there so that they will have a reasonable standards of living. We need farm build-up to make sure that properties are not only kept in order but also improved so that when the market improves they will again be viable. As well, they need carry-on finance but, as has been suggested by one of the speakers on the other side, we have to be careful that we do not impose too great a debt. There needs to be an equitable share of the reconstruction.  Mr MacFarlane,  to whom I referred earlier, had this to say: 
The Territory fared very badly when compared with other States which received State assistance matched by the Federal Government. For instance, last year Canberra had matched the $ 10m loan granted by the Queensland Government to the beef industry. But the Territory got only $600,000- 
That is the same figure as for this year- about one-third of its due on cattle population. 
The Government can also assist with advice to the people in the industry at the present time. Perhaps there should be some lease aggregation. That is something which most of us would fight. We do not like to see a man lose his property but it is fairly obvious that in some areas, particularly in the Centre, some properties will have to combine so that one family can have a decent living and others can be given assistance with retraining and support to help them move elsewhere. Since the people in the Territory in the industry need a cash flow, we must actively seek markets and I have suggested earlier that this should be done in co-operation with the growers. 
One point raised by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  in another place and by an honourable senator here today was that there must be a greater return to growers than they are getting at present. I quote what  Mr Sinclair  said at Roma, Queensland, on 20 November this year: 
Whilst returns to beef producers have been entirely unsatsifactory, the same cannot be said for the balance sheets of most meat exporters in 1975-76. 
He went on: 
But any suggestion that there is a confrontation with the exporters is not the wish of the Government. 
While there might not be a confrontation, it is fairly obvious that something needs to be done and some firm action taken. To assist the industry in the Territory, the Government could provide staff for market research, again in cooperation with the growers. It could provide staff for research into management and productivity, the two areas of the industry in the Territory which have a definite need. I will not dwell on that; I think it is well understood. The last point I want to make in relation to Government assistance is to suggest that sympathetic consideration be given to those who have borrowed, either by reconstructing the loans, extending the time or by giving holiday periods for repayment. Alternatively, as I suggested earlier, the loan could be converted into a grant, as has been done in some States. 
What is the effect of devaluation? In the Territory, where the industry is well established, one would have hoped that devaluation would assist the industry. One of the reasons put forward for devaluation was that it would help the mining industry and the primary producers. Unfortunately, as far as the Territory is concerned, the season is closed and there will be no help there. By the time the season opens again the cost of equipment will be higher, the cost of labour will be higher, the cost of veterinary supplies will be higher, and so on. One wonders whether there will be any assistance at all to the industry. When considering the United States markets and some of the Territory's other markets, one wonders whether the devaluation will be of any help at all. The rnining industry in the Territory will profit, but one wonders whether any of the other industries will. Let me refer again to a statement by  Mr Sinclair.  On 5 September 1975, he said. 
The economic problems facing the beef industry are generating grave social problems for the families of beef producers and their employees. These social problems will become more pronounced as long as the Government fails to act to assist the industry. The total failure to act will bring down on Australia not only an economic tragedy but also a widespread, lingering social tragedy. 
I plead with the Government not to see the future of the Territory solely in terms of mining. Beef production has been the biggest employer of labour and has given good returns to the Territory. Perhaps we could latch on to one of the catch-cries of the recent election and call on the Government to put the industry in the Territory back on its feet. I support the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
Has the Government, under Public Service Board Regulation 97C, paid out any money for re-imbursement of higher electricity charges following increases in electricity charges for the Northern Territory of 39 to 50 per cent. If so, how much has been paid and how long is it expected that reimbursement under this regulation will continue. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and relates to comments made by the Minister for Transport during his recent visit to Darwin. The Minister then said that the future of the  Darwin Trader  was very delicate. Can the Minister indicate what further losses the Australian National Line can incur without necessitating the withdrawal of the  Darwin Trader!  Does the Minister agree with the Executive Member for Transport in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly that the Minister was living in the past to suggest that Darwin waterside workers were the main threat to the  Darwin Trader,  given that their last industrial action was in April 1975 when unions affiliated with the Trades and Labor Council took action? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What travelling allowances were paid to each Member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly during the last financial year. 
-My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, relates to the staffing situation at the Darwin Hospital. In view of the long waiting list for elective surgery on the one hand and claims that routine maintenance cannot be carried out because of shortage of staff on the other hand, will the Minister obtain figures comparing the present staffing level with that of pre-cyclone Tracy. Will the Minister agree that the Hospital has been disadvantaged by having its staff ceilings set on December 1975 figures, given that December figures are always lower than those at any other time of the year because it is the time when most staff move away from the tropical areas? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I rise to support my colleague,  Senator Keeffe,  in the discussion of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. I shall confine myself to that Bill and leave the other two associated Bills for later discussion. I do not think that any doubt has been indicated by previous speakers that the Bill before us is a vast improvement on the Bill which was introduced in June of this year. That must be recorded as a tribute to the individuals, parties and groups around Australia, who presented some information to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  I think it will be acknowledged that it was a credit to the Minister that he was prepared to accept some of the recommendations and amendments put forward by these groups. But let us make sure that there is no cause for smugness on the other side of the House. The fine words that have been spoken ring a little hollow when we remember that had it not been for the shameful events of 1 1 November last year this legislation would have by now been enacted and Aboriginal people would have had land rights. 
-That is right. Although we have said that the Bill is much better than the June Bill, it still does not go far enough. We will make objections to it but we will leave those, as  Senator Baume  suggested, to the Committee stage. 
I want to indicate the broad range of objections which we are to make. The first one is the role of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. This has been softened to a degree by the comments made by  Senator Baume  reminding us that everything discussed in the Assembly will be discussed with the Minister first and that this Parliament will have the right to give or deny assent. That mechanism is valuable. The second objection we have is that the Bill as it stands abandons the needs criteria. This is one of the strongest platforms of the Bill introduced by the Labor Government. The rights of the traditional owner are the only rights that are being looked at. This Bill has overlooked the needs criteria which is so important, particularly to those people who live on the fringes of towns or in towns. It limits the powers of the Land Commissioner. Those of us who saw the work done by  Mr Justice  Ward will realise that it is unfortunate that this aspect of the legislation has not been allowed to stand as it was before. Despite the comments made on the other side of the House it gives- this must be agreed- undue emphasis to the wishes of the mining companies. We seem to have adopted an approach very similar to the approach we use to our overseas investors, that of the frightened fawn. We seem to be seeing in mining the panacea for all our economic ills. 
The concept of Aboriginal land rights is extremely complex. I personally believe that it would take Aboriginal people to explain it. Since we do not have a group of Aboriginal people here, we must do the next best thing. I have tried to do this. I have travelled around the Territory asking Aboriginal people, Aboriginal communities and Aboriginal groups: 'What do you want me to say about land rights?' I have a lot of very interesting information in transcript form, and I will quote quite a lot of extracts from the transcript. Perhaps this will interrupt my speech. It will not flow as well as some we might hear but I think it is pretty important that we hear what the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory say. To save having too many quotations I have included a number of these in the text and I will refer to them as I go along. I have information drawn, not only from Aboriginal people but also from other people in the Territory who have spent many years working in the field. Let me make the point very strongly at this stage that I do not claim to be an expert on Aboriginal affairs. All I can claim is that I have been involved for a number of years in observing what has been going on in the Northern Territory. I have worked under the 2 governments which have been working with the Aboriginal people. So I have some little background that perhaps I can bring to the debate. I want to give some background information in order to clarify what we really mean by land ownership in the Northern Territory. This is important, because it will help us in the debate. If I may make a comment about the other place, it is clear that in that place there was not a full understanding of what we mean by 'land ownership'. The first point that must be made- I think we all agree on it- is that the Aboriginal concept of land ownership is not the same as ours and that if it is a different concept we will need a different system to embrace it. 
We hear a lot about traditional owners, but what do we mean by 'traditional owners 7 I can speak only of the Top End of the Territory; others can speak later about other parts. There, under a patrilineal descent system, land is recognised as belonging to a clan. There is no doubt about it. Everybody knows that certain land belongs to a certain clan. We have to be careful, because a person will speak of 'my country', meaning the place where he was conceived; but that is not necessarily his traditional land. The way he will get land is by patrilineal descent. However, there are variations. I would like to mention one of these, because it does affect our understanding of this subject. The first quotation I have relates to Groote Eylandt and the transfer or giving of land. This comment was made by Jambana: 
My grandfather came from Mainland. Now we are here in this place (Groote) now Maminyamanja- Clancy's grandfather and my grandfather (real grandfather) had a meeting. After the meeting he said now this place here is your place now, you can own this place. It s nothing to do with Maminyamanja now. 
I said to Jambana: 
So the land was virtually given to the Lalaras? 
He replied: 
Yes, given to the Lalaras. 
That was 2 generations ago- approximately 50 years ago- and it has been accepted that now the Lalaras are the owners of that piece of land. I then asked what would happen if a young fellow from the other group came back in 50 years time and said: 'That land used to belong to my grandfather. I want it back'. The group was adamant that this would not happen. A promise had been given- that was the phrase that was used- and the land is accepted as belonging to that group. The Aboriginal people know who owns the land. I am told, and I accept the proposition because I have been told it in so many places, that the Aboriginal people will always know who owns the land. This has a particular effect on any legislation we introduce. 
I want to raise an extra point here, and that is that the traditional owner is not the only one who has decisions to make about the land. I will read an extract which will make it clear that another group of people, who might be called managers or something of that sort, also have decisions to make. So, we have to be very careful when we talk about the traditional owners as the only ones having some influence or part in decisionmaking. I read from some work of Beulah Lowe, who will be well known to a good many honourable senators. This quotation indicates the responsibility and interest of some other groups: lt will be seen, then, that many different clans have rights over a certain piece of land. For example, part of Milingimbi is owned by the Walamanu clan. Even though the original members of this clan which actually owned this part of Milingimbi are all dead, there are still members of the Walamanu clan alive, whose clan territory is Bunbuwa These Walamanu people are therefore regarded as the owners of this pan of Milingimbi. However, these people stand in the relationship of mother's mother and mother's mother's brother to Djawa, Djilminy, Rungurr, etc., of the Gupapuynu clan, so Milingimbi also belongs to these men. In addition, members of the Wangurri clan, whose country is Cato River in Arnhem Bay, the Wubulkarra clan and others also have rights over this pan of Milingimbi because they all belong to the Mandjikay group of clans which have the fish nuykal' as their totemic ancestor. This fish swam from the 
Cato River to Howard Island, to Milingimbi and other places, thus joining all the clans of the places he visited into one 'mala '(group). 
So, it is not a simple situation. We cannot just talk about the traditional owners as if they were a single person; so we see the appropriateness of the trusts that are being set up by this Bill. It is an attempt, and a good attempt, to fit the Aboriginal law into the present Austraiian law. There is no doubt that there will be some confusion, and I do not think there is any doubt that there will be need for further explanation by people in this Parliament, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and members of the land councils. There is confusion between land trusts and land councils. This was exemplified in the debate in the other place. We must make sure that we are clear in our minds as to what we mean by 'trust' and council'; but I will not go through it at this stage. I stress at this stage the need for flexibility in the implementation of this Bill. As this is a second reading debate and we are not attacking anyone, I make the point strongly that flexibility must be exhibited by whoever has the responsibility of implementation. 
I would like to go into a little background as to the attitudes of the major political parties over the last few years. I will refer to a document which was produced by a senior officer of the Department in Darwin and which was sent out to the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory to help them understand what is going on. It is prepared in question and answer form and part of the document reads: 
Question- What was the attitude of the major political parties towards Aboriginal land rights before 1 970? 
Answer- Whilst a number of individual parliamentarians developed an interest in traditional claims to land before 1970- and several were active in assisting Aboriginal bodies in this field - 
I imagine that the officer was thinking of Kim Beazley, Gordon Bryant and others- 
Political parties as a whole did not regard it as a major issue or as a matter which needed a special mention in their platforms. At this time, of course, public interest in the subject was not significant either. 
Question- Were any official statements made by the Government about land rights before 1970? 
Answer- Yes, but they did not favour Aboriginal claims to traditional lands. Two statements by the then Minister for the Interior (who was responsible for Aboriginal matters in the Northern Territory),  Mr Peter  Nixon, in August 1968 and September 1 970, made it clear that: 
The Government believes it wholly wrong to encourage Aborigines to think that because their ancestors have had a long association with a particular piece of land, Aborigines of the present day have the right to demand ownership of it. '  (Hansard3.9.70) 
Question- When did changes in political policy on land rights first occur? 
Answer- There is considerable evidence of 're-thinking' in all parties before the 1970s, despite the statement quoted above, but no party formally committed itself to recognition of traditional land rights until the Australian Labor Party, at its Conference in June 1971, pledged itself to grant land rights when it should come to office. The A.L.P. platform did not, however, specify how land rights would be granted or on what basis- only that these rights would be granted. 
Question- What about the Liberal-Country Party Coalition? 
Answer- Until the A.L.P. Government was formed in December 1972, the official policy of the coalition parties towards land rights remained unchanged. A major policy statement by the then Prime Minister in January 1972 on Aboriginal Affairs recognised Aboriginal interest in obtaining secure tenure to land and indicated the Government's willingness to assist in this. Traditional rights to land were not mentioned, however, and in fact a subsequent statement by the then Minister for the Interior,  Mr Ralph  Hunt, in February 1972, made it clear that no such rights would be recognised. 
So, with this sort of attitude within the parties, let us look at the annual reports of the Welfare Branch and see how this was implemented within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, or the Welfare Branch as it was from 1970 onwards. It is quite clear that from the 1950s to the 1970s the attitude that existed was that the disabilities of the Aboriginal people could be overcome if they could be moulded into facsimiles of white Australians. We had a situation in which the Department or the Welfare Branch attempted to provide clothes, European education, European food, health services and so on to the Aboriginal people in the same quantum as would be supplied to a European community. I have mentioned in this place before that one of the outstanding teachers of the early 1950s said that he would do a much better job if he could change the colour of the Aboriginal children's skin; he was trying to do everything else. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before dinner I said that the policy of the 1950s to the 1970s was that the 'disabilities could be overcome if Aboriginals could be moulded into facsimiles of white Australians'. I finished on the point that serviceshealth services, clothing, food, education and so on- had been provided. By the end of that time there was some quite clear, tangible,  visible  evidence of the 'success' of that scheme. Roads were through; schools were operating on a curriculum which belonged more to Europeans than to Aboriginals, but they were operating and a lot of children were in attendance; the Government had established some economic, so-called, projects. But it was quite clear that the Government was not happy about what was going on. In 1 972 the McMahon Government put out a statement which indicated that it was not happy with the way the policy was proceeding and was going to change it. The evidence of that failure was all around. There was a great deal of alcoholism. I suppose it would be very facile to blame the Government for that, because in 1963 and a little after legislation had been passed allowing the Aboriginal people to drink. Obviously that would be a too simplistic way to approach it. There was a lot of vandalism. There had been a decline in social discipline throughout the settlements and missions, and many people who had been trained were not applying the skills they had gained. It was clear that the Aboriginal people saw the policies as being European and therefore irrelevant. So the alcoholism, the vandalism, the decline, were all symptoms of something else. 
It is interesting to note that at that time land was being allocated, but allocated in a way similar to European allocation. In other words, there was no recognition of traditional ownership. Bulman, Yugal Pastoral Company and other properties were given land under the European system, and the proposed subdivisions had no regard at all for traditional owners. The seeds were sown for a good deal of inter-clan trouble. In 1972, with the advent of the Labor Government, many changes occurred because of the recognition by the Labor Government of the value of land, the value of language and the value of culture to the Aboriginal people. There was a policy within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs which allowed the department to shed control of institutions such as schools, hospitals, forestry developments and so on. The Government introduced bold innovations at that time, which have already been mentioned, which enabled self-examination by the Aboriginal people and enabled them to work towards establishing their own identity. One of the major innovations was the encouragement of assistance towards establishing homelands centres. The people were encouraged to move out to their own areas and to establish their living on a particular piece of land. Money was given in direct grants to give the Aboriginal people the opportunity to guide their own affairs and to make their own decisions. The bilingual program introduced education in Aboriginal languages. 
The results were quite dramatic. For the first time we saw changes in the dynamics of Aboriginal society. I am not suggesting for a moment that there were not mistakes. It was quite clear that at that time people believed that the Aboriginals possessed a degree of knowledge and expertise in financial matters which most of us do not have. So there was quite a deal of what one might call a waste of money, waste of vehicles and so on. I personally do not regard it as waste because I see it as educational, but nevertheless it gave people the opportunity to say: 'This will not work'. I nave made those points to indicate that the policies of the parties reflected back in the attitude of the department. I should like to read a summation of the situation by a man who has had well over 20 years experience working with Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. Speaking of the work of the Labor Government, he said: 
Generally, the gain has been to the base of Aboriginal culture and through that to a strengthening of the personal ability of individual Aboriginals to cope with the existing circumstances in which they find themselves. It is essential that administrative convenience and financial economies do not interrupt this process if the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory are to effectively manage their own affairs, control their destiny by free choice and, most importantly, for the health and self respect of their whole people, are able to exploit that part of their assets that they need to exploit in order to pay for those things that they want from other Australians. Any return to the controlled, mendicant societies of just a few years ago would interrupt a process that has brought out, for the first time, the inherent strengths and stability of Aboriginal society and demonstrated, for the first time, that Aboriginals have the capacity and will to be an effective unit in the larger Australian scene. 
I should like to turn now to a consideration of the role of the Legislative Assembly and of the attitude of the people in the Northern Territory towards the Assembly playing a part in land rights legislation. I wish to read a number of quotations which I think will be self-explanatory. Taking just one isolated Aboriginal,  Mr Wiyandiji  Nunggula of the Allawa Tribe, who would be known to quite a number of people here, he had this to say: 
Many Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory do not agree with the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly are not genuine regarding the Aboriginal land ownership policy. 
We feel that the Legislative Assembly will favour the white pastoralists, who is one who comes and goes, who lease the land but do not value the land as we the Aborigines do. Who does not recognise the traditional land holding rights of the Aboriginal people, who are residents on the land. 
Referring now to some of the evidence which I took on the trip, a group at Ngukurr answered some questions which I put. I asked: 
Where would you see the legislation being passed? All in Canberra, or some in Canberra and what they call complementary legislation in the Legislative Assembly? 
The answer was: 
We had a meeting down the village, and the people told me very strongly that they wanted it all decided in one place, instead of two places, and that one place is better in Canberra, or else one lot of decision made here, and one lot of decision in Darwin. 
I said: 
And what was the main reason? 
The answer was: 
Well the people up in Darwin know what is going on here and know what could benefit the Aborigines. They would stop a lot of goodness out of it in the Territory. 
Moving to a group which has been working in the Territory, the missionary group, I will deal firstly with the Victorian Council of Churches, who supported  Mr Justice  Woodward in this way: 
We concur with the view that 'land rights legislation should not be capable of being affected in any way by Northern Territory ordinances' ... In particular we consider that the following matters should remain the responsibility of the Australian Parliament and Government: 
Protection of fauna on Aboriginal lands; 
Right ofentry on Aboriginal lands; 
Protection of sacred sites; 
Turning from the smaller group to the larger body, the Australian Council of Churches, this was its recommendation: 
Withdraw from the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly powers to make laws over sacred sites, entry permits, fishing rights and control of territorial waters, etc 
The Northern Land Council and the Central Land Council have also suggested that no legislation should be enacted in the Legislative Assembly. It should be remembered that the land councils are the Aboriginal people, so that what has come from them is the wish of the people. If I could refer now to another quotation from the transcript, on the visit to Yirrkala of a man called Gatjil, one of the leading young people of the Northern Territory said: 
My main concern is for the aspects of the Bill which go to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. We have had some strong arguments with the Legislative Assembly, particularly when they were at the annual council meeting at Elcho Island. 
An elder of the group, Roy Marika, who would be well known to a lot of senators and others, spoke in the language, and Gatiil translated. He said: 
Well, unfortunately the people in Darwin, who have been in the Territory for so long, claim to be experts in Aboriginal affairs. Unfortunately, they are the ones who are in the Assembly already and they are saying that this is what should happen to the Aboriginal people, saying that the Parliament in Canberra is not doing what it should do. 'We are the experts and we know how this legislation should go through'. 
I said to them: 
Would you claim that these people are not experts? 
The reply came: 
No, of course not. 
Statements that have been made have led  Mr Viner  to make some of the amendments which he has made. I am pressing strongly the view that he look further at the evidence in front of him and consider that no legislation whatsoever should pass through the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. It is the wish of the people of the Northern Territory- I am only speaking for them- that this legislation should be enacted in the Federal Parliament. Of course this has led to a conflict between  Dr Letts  and  Mr Viner.  An article in the  Northern Territory News  of 1 April 1976 states: 

 Dr Letts criticised the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Ian  Viner, for having preconceived ideas on the Aboriginal land legislation. 
 He made up his mind without consulting the people of the Territory. 
One senior adviser told him that the bill should not go through the Assembly because you can 't trust the Assembly. ' 

 Dr Letts said there were frightening prospects for pastoralists who had land on tenure. 

 Dr Letts said the proposed bill posed the single most detrimental legislation to the Territory. 
Perhaps I should read a comment from the statement of  Dr Letts  in the Legislative Assembly to indicate the attitude or philosophy of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Speaking of this Bill, in March  Dr Letts  said:  . . it is the duty of this Assembly to bring to the notice of the Federal Government certain aspects and effects of recent Aboriginal land policy which can only be detrimental to the future of this nation, including its Aboriginal people. 
He went on to say that he believed Aborigines seek correction and justice in respect of past mistakes but they do not, to the best of his knowledge, seek to achieve this by turning the sword of discrimination against their non-Aboriginal neighbours'. I think those words sum up the attitude of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I turn now to land councils. The Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is opposed to land councils. In the  Northern Territory News  Dr Letts  was reported as saying that there was no need for Aboriginal land councils as they were unnecessary bureaucratic bodies. The headline in this newspaper of 4 March this year stated: 
I was going to make that point,  Senator Baume.  The comment was made that no new roads would be built without consultation and there would be consultation and not necessarily disagreement. It would be a matter of whether the road would serve the whole of the people of the Territory and whether it would interfere with sacred sites. 
I want to deal now with the subject of mining. Again I will be brief because other speakers from this side of the House will deal more fully with this subject. I indicated in my comments about the chap who was speaking of the Labor Party's achievements that the ownership of minerals is vitally important. Honourable senators will remember the comment about the resource which they had to sell, the proceeds of which they could use to buy what they needed. The comment that came through strongly was: 'If we had our minerals we could sell them and we could break our dependence on the European people and move ourselves forward'. The Aboriginal people have a clear idea of the place and value of minerals. They have a clear idea of ownership. They make it clear to us who owns the minerals and which areas belong to that person. They make it clear also- which I find fascinatingthat the owner has a responsibility to share. This was put in a very unemotional way- again at Groote Eylandt- when it was said to me: 
Well what we're doing on this manganese business, with Gemco doing it here on the island, Maminyamania should be getting that money, but that's not fair. Not fair for the other clans. Now every clan they're involved with this money, the whole community on the island. Another thing, half of the money goes to the government for the people for the whole of the Northern Territory. 
That person was asked whether he meant the Aboriginal Benefits Trust Fund and he said yes. He was asked whether he was happy with that arrangement and he said yes. When we discussed this matter at Roper River the need for assistance for those people on whose land minerals have been found came clear when David Daniels had this to say: 
Before they say yes, the Northern Land Council or whoever has the legal backing should go and assist the Aboriginals straight away, wherever they got a mineral find, and really get it legally set up for the Aborigines. Because Aborigines will say yes. They've done that to a lot of places now. Gove, Groote Eylandt, . . . because they said yes. It should be more looked into before they say yes. 
I sum up that point by saying that ownership is vital and that the exploitation of the minerals is what the people need to buy what they want. 
I have tried to present the Aboriginal point of view and the point of view of some other people in the Northern Territory on this most important subject. As I said at the beginning of my remarks, I believe that the Bill is an improvement but it falls short of the ideal. The amendments which the Opposition will be proposing later bring the Bill much closer to the ideal. The eyes of the world are on us. The Government has an opportunity to make a significant contribution and one which will last. The Government has an opportunity to gain credibility in the eyes of the Aboriginal people. Many honourable senators have seen the document which was sent down from a meeting held on Elcho Island earlier this year in which the people said: 
We are grateful to the Labor Government for respecting our tribal law and allowing us to keep it without change. We regret that we must state that since the Liberal Government, led by the Honourable Malcolm Fraser came to office, certain changes that it has brought about give us cause for much unhappiness, and we do not like the signs we detect, in the policy of the present Government. 
It think that this Bill is an opportunity to overcome that attitude and that image.  Senator Baume  was correct when he said that this is a most historic Bill. We have waited many years for it. Let it be writ large without imperfections. The dignity- perhaps even the survival- of a wonderful race of people hangs in the balance. We must not let them down. 
I conclude my remarks by quoting part of a letter which was written by an Aboriginal man and which is headed 'From Black to White'. The man is James Galarrwuy Yunupingu, who would be known to a number of people present. He said: 
The land is my backbone. I only stand straight, happy, proud and not ashamed about my colour because I still have land. The land is the art. I can paint, dance, create and sing as my ancestors did before me. My people recorded these things about our land this way, so that I and all others like me may do the same. 
I think of land as the history of my nation. It tells us how we came into being and what system we must live. My great ancestors who lived in the dmes of history planned everything that we practice now. The law of history says that we must not take land, fight overland, steal land, and so on. My land is mine only because I came in spirit from that land, and so did my ancestors of the same land . . . 
My land is my foundation. I stand, live and perform as long as I have something firm and hard to stand on . . . 
Without land I am nothing. Only a black feller who doesr 't care about anything in the world. 
He finished it in a most unusual way- remember that this is a letter from black to white- by saying: 
My people don 't want to be like you ! 
I plead with the Senate to give very careful consideration and thought to this Bill and to the amendments which will be moved later this evening. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. The provision of dental services at the Darwin clinic has reached the farcical point where intending patients are put on the waiting list to go on the waiting list for treatment. Will the Minister indicate what positive steps are being taken to resolve this untenable situation? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Are samples taken from the sea in the area adjacent to the Nabalco treatment plant at Gove. 
Will the Minister table the results of any tests taken in May of this year. 
I present the following petition from 56 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That we the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia express grave concern at the proposal to divide the Torres Strait Islands and its people by proposing a seabed boundary between Papua and Australia, south of Saibai, Dauan and Boigu. 
Respectfully request that any international boundaries between Australia and Papua be set in such a way that the traditional life style and rights of the Torres Strait Islands people can be continued without interruption and unimpeded. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Primary School at Fraser 
-My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, follows questions asked previously by both  Senator Kilgariff  and myself concerning the supply of electricity to the Darwin area. The Minister will be aware of reports of frequent blackouts and selective interruptions to the Darwin power supply. My information is that the problem is two-fold- shortage of staff at the power house and inadequate capacity of the generators to meet peak load while allowing for maintenance. Will the Minister see whether more staff can be provided and will he take action to ensure that an additional generator is procured to enable regular maintenance to be carried out so that a reliable power supply can be provided for the people of Darwin? 
I rise in this debate to speak briefly on the Public Service Amendment Bill (No. 2). As has been explained by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  the purpose of the Bill is to facilitate the transfer of officers from the Australian Public Service to the Northern Territory Public Service. This is a most important step for the Northern Territory, following as it does the decision of the Labor Government to establish a fully elected Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and to arrange for the transfer of powers to give the people of the Northern Territory greater involvement in the decision-making process. Like my fellow senator from the Northern Territory I welcome this legislation, but I have some reservations which I shall come to in a moment. 
I agree with the Minister that the Northern Territory should be given greater control and that arrangements should be made for the governance of the Northern Territory to reflect the views and the aspirations, not only of some of the local communities but the majority of the people in the local communities and of all communities, not only Darwin itself. The Minister in his statement said that he was looking for a viable and efficient Public Service. I think we ought to go one stage further than this; we want something better than a service which is viable and efficient. The setting up of a new Public Service is a most exciting, challenging situation. I think those people who have served in the Public Service would agree that the opportunities are there for people to enter and to give us the best possible Public Service. I agree with the Minister that one of the jobs we have in front of us is to protect the rights of those officers who are moving to the Northern Territory. 
The reservations I have about the Bill relate in the main to the haste- I would call it unseemly haste, although one of the newspaper reports mentioned 'irresponsible haste'- with which the Bill is being introduced and things are being implemented. Only recently we had a situation here in which a Bill was brought in and we had to deal with it late at night. It came back later to be corrected. The situation where a Bill has to be corrected is deplorable, but when we are dealing with people's lives it is just not a tenable situation. We cannot afford the luxury of what we might call experimentation when we are dealing with people's lives. My information is that the people of the Territory are particularly disturbed about the haste, especially those who are at the moment based in Brisbane. 
Let us look briefly at the situation in the Northern Territory. Approximately one-third of the officers involved are on leave at present. This is fairly standard at this time of the year. People move out before the wet. The Northern Territory Commissioner has only just been appointed. He arrived in the Territory this week and he has yet to prepare his determinations. It is fairly obvious that he will not do this in two or three days. This has resulted in a feeling of uncertainty among public servants in the Territory. From my understanding, no one has yet been advised whether he is to be transferred. So we have this feeling of uncertainty. People are being asked to make decisions before Christmas. Christmas is about 2 weeks away. With the Public Service grinding to a halt, as it does before the Christmas season, I think it is fair to say that this is unseemly or irresponsible haste. 
I have always agreed with the dictum that justice must not only be done but must be seen to be done. I think we could transfer this to the present situation and say that arrangements must be not only fair and reasonable but must be seen to be so. I think it must be agreed that the Minister and the Department are not giving people any time to make decisions which have to be made in the best interests of all concerned. It is fair to say that people have some fear of change, particularly abrupt change. They need time to adjust and to adapt. The decisions which people are being asked to make involve a career for the rest of their working life. The decisions involve the education of children. With examinations just over and people waiting for results, they are not sure what they will do next year. With the state of the economy and unemployment they are not sure whether the children will be employed. So they are reluctant to break away and move to a new area when so many factors must be considered. 
I do not think the department or the Minister have considered the social situation of the families concerned in asking them to make a decision of this social magnitude so quickly. There is no reason why the legislation should not be deferred and not implemented for 6 months. As my colleague  Senator Kilgariff  said, secondments could be made. Temporary appointments could be made. The executive to work the Legislative Assembly could be set up. I agree entirely that this is most important and that it should be done, but it could be done other than by permanent appointments. The branches and the boards that have been transferred could continue operating as they are operating at present. Things could go ahead normally. It would give people an opportunity to look further at the Northern Territory ordinance which sets up the Public Service. 
The comments that have been made to me on the legislation are that it has some very rough edges, that it has a few omissions. There have been discussions with the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association. I commend the Minister for having these discussions. As a result there have been some improvements, but the legislation could still do with further improvements. I wonder whether the Minister realises that the setting up of a new department such as this is a wonderful opportunity for the Public Service. It does not happen very often. I think that to rush into it, without taking the opportunity to look at the position in the States and to get the best possible situation, is most unreasonable and unwise. From personal experience of a similar situation, I know that the opportunity to correct errors that other people have made, the historical errors which we cannot correct in a State situation, is one that should not be overlooked. I commend to the Minister very sincerely the suggestion that we should think of not implementing the legislation for 6 months. 
There is a complicating factor. It has been mentioned in the Press. The Public Service Board in the Territory is determined that all officers in Darwin will lose one week's tropical leave and that leave fares will be paid only to Adelaide, not to any other capital city. The Minister may know that a protest meeting is being held in Darwin more or less at present to discuss this matter. This is one more factor to suggest that it is not the right climate for setting up a service which will last us into and during statehood. 
There are a couple of other comments which I wish to make as an ex-public servant. I am concerned about the Minister's powers to override the Public Service Act and to transfer officers against will. I am not suggesting that it will happen, but the power is there. This is something which we will not support. I think that most of us on this side of the chamber would not be happy about it. As the Senate would know, the Act enables officers to decline transfer. This right must be maintained. A situation where the only option to transfer is resignation, is not acceptable in a career Public Service. Despite what my colleague said, there is no guarantee of acceptance back into the Australian Public Service. I have mentioned this matter here previously. If we are to have a good, strong Public Service, people must be able to move back. My view is that there should be free movement at all times. Certainly at the moment there appears to be no such opportunity. I am a huie disturbed that the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  said that he would be watching the Northern Territory to see what happens in the Australian Capital Territory. I certainly do not want to see the Northern Territory used as some sort of guinea pig to try out what is going to happen in Canberra. We have had enough experimentation. My discussions with the Public Service unions have led me to believe that they are very frightened that the cream of the Public Service at the present time is not prepared to stay in Darwin and that they are frightened that good men will not be attracted if the legislation goes through at the speed at which it is being proposed. The honourable member for Canberra said in the other place on 2 December: 
There is some feeling, albeit a psychological or emotional feeling, that if they join another body which does not have quite the stature of the national Public Service, somehow or other they will be second grade citizens in the national capital. 
That would apply in the Northern Territory. I repeat that the Northern Territory Public Service wants the best and needs the best at this exciting and challenging point in time. I ask the Minister to consider delaying the implementation of the legislation and, secondly, to remove the uncertainty which exists at the present time by saying what is proposed and then to have full and frank discussions with the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. I commend the Minister for starting these discussions. But let us see them develop so that we will have the best possible Public Service. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Does the Government, in view of the very disturbing comments made in the Neal/Hird Report on staffing of schools in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory regarding the serious educational disadvantages faced by both students and teachers in the Northern Territory, intend to implement the recommendations of the Report as a matter of urgency. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Will the Minister outline the results of talks held by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly's Executive Member for Finance and Community Development with Treasury Officials, concerning financial arrangements connected with the transfer of powers to the Assembly, and, in particular, give details of (a) the level of revenue that the Territory will be expected to collect; (b) details of tax sharing arrangements; (c) whether consideration has been given to the provision of specific purpose grants; and (d) the level of funding which it is estimated that will be needed to support a Northern Territory Public Service for the first 5 years of the new arrangements. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Will the Minister, in view of  Senator Robertson's  consistent calls for a referendum in the Northern Territory on the question of statehood for the Territory, give an assurance that a referendum will be held when it has been decided how the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory's recommendation that 'The Executive makes a broadly similar effort to the States in raising revenue and controlling expenditures' will be implemented. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Can the Minister confirm that money has been set aside in the 1976-77 Budget to construct a depot at Alice Springs for the use of the City Corporation. If so, when will construction begin. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Have sections 9 and 10 of the Northern Territory Fire Brigade Ordinance been amended to allow the Chief Fire Officer, or a Station Officer, to delegate men of a lower rank to take control of fire fighting operations. If so, does this mean that the Northern Territory will be the only Force in Australia where this administrative procedure operates. 
Is the Minister satisfied that the people of the Northern Territory have adequate fire prevention services. 
Will the Minister indicate when a review of manning scales for the Fire Brigade, now being carried out by the Department of the Northern Territory, will be completed and if the report produced will be made public 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Will the Minister give details of (a) all studies, reviews, inquiries, investigations and reports being undertaken by the Department of the Northern Territory; (b) the terms of reference or purpose of the research; and (c) when they will be completed. 
Will the Minister also give details of studies, reviews, inquiries, investigations and reports carried out and completed in the past twelve months, including a list of those reports that have been made public 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
When will a report by the Water Resources Branch of the Department of the Northern Territory entitled 'Alice Springs Town Area-Management of Water Resources' be made available to the public. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Would the Minister indicate what his attitude is to the proposition of single teachers in Nhulunbuy being given Department of Northern Territory houses instead of single accommodation in the Commonwealth Hostel. 
Will the Minister undertake to investigate the possibility of suitable alternative accommodation for single teachers at Nhulunbuy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will the Minister provide a comparison of losses incurred by the  Darwin Trader  with those incurred by other coastal vessels operated by the Australian National Line, taking into account operational differences such as time, distance and capacity. 
I present two petitions from 23 and 87 citizens respectively as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That we the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia express grave concern at the proposal to divide the Torres Strait Islands and its people by proposing a seabed boundary between Papua and Australia, south of Saibai Dauan and Boigu. 
Respectfully requests that any international boundaries between Australia and Papua be set in such a way that the traditional life style and rights of the Torres Strait Islands people can be continued without interruption and unimpeded. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister will recall that last year services on the North Australian Railways were suspended. At that time the Minister gave an assurance that the line and the facilities would be maintained and that services would resume as soon as they were justified. At the present time maintenance staff are being either transferred or declared redundant and workshop facilities are being made available to government departments. Does this mean that the Government feels that the reopening of the line will never be justified or is it a case of assurance being given but not honoured? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What will happen in the Northern Territory when the rural adjustment scheme comes into operation on 1 January 1977. 
Can Northern Territory cattlemen expect that the level of financial assistance indicated in the Budget will be increased. If so, by how much. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. She may be aware that  Dr Letts,  Chief Secretary of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, has made a Press statement in which he said that he has asked the Government to enunciate its attitude on the 2 kilometre limit which will be part of the complementary legislation to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. Will the Minister indicate to the Senate what the Government's attitude is in this matter which she will appreciate is of great interest to many groups and individuals in the Northern Territory? 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I will get this question in while I still have the chance to do so. I address a question in 4 parts to the Minister for Science. Firstly, have 13 nations signed a solar energy pact and agreed to pool their knowledge on solar energy in order to minimise their need for imported oil? Secondly, are these nations members of the international agency which collects, evaluates and disseminates information on solar energy? Thirdly, why is Australia not a signatory to the pact? Fourthly, will steps be taken to make such a move? 
I ask my question of the Minister representing the Acting Minister for the Northern Territory. I remind the Minister that on 25 August last year I asked whether the Urban Development and Town Planning Branch of the Department of the Northern Territory was preparing, in conjunction with the Queensland Government, a regional study of the north west Queensland and McArthur River areas. The Minister in his reply stated that such a report had almost been completed but that the decision on whether the report would be made public had to be taken in conjunction with the Queensland Government. I now ask whether this consultation has taken place? If so, is the report to be made public? When will it be made public? 
I join with earlier speakers in congratulating  Senator Lewis  on having made his maiden speech. As one who passed this initiation just 12 months ago I can imagine how relieved the honourable senator feels. I commend him for the effort he made in taking this first step. The pleasant circumstances surrounding  Her  Majesty's recent visit gives the Government a unique opportunity to have another go, as it were, at its policy statement. This occasion gives the Government an opportunity to make a between budget evaluation of its progress. It gives the Government a chance to assess the success of the 1 976 version and perhaps to knock off one or two rough edges which had been brought about by the euphoria of having attained a coup against the Australian Labor Party Government. The Queen's visit gives the Government an opportunity to present a model statement on its policies. The Government decided to take this action and to give us a progress statement. The verb tense which was used during the Speech indicates that it is not what the Government is trying to do but an on-going process of what it is achieving. Obviously the Government is happy with the progress it is making. 
With the Government taking this sort of attitude I think we are entitled to make our own assessment of what we happen to feel about the progress the Government has made and to evaluate what we feel has happened since 1976. 1 intend to take the planks of the Queen's Speech and to examine them. I shall not take all of them because it is not possible to do that in the time allocated to me. Some are difficult to quantify; some are difficult even to recognise; some fall into categories of pious hopes; and some fall into the category of what we have come to call motherhood clauses'. These are matters with which nobody disagrees but nobody really understands. In looking at the planks my references will be to the Northern Territory. I make no apology for this. I shall push the interests of the Northern Territory as long as certain sections of the National Country Party of Australia allow us to stay here. I have said before that it is vital that we in the Territory, in our early stage of development, have the sort of voice which the States had earlier. We are talking about Territory rights whereas at federation the States spoke of State rights. Let us take the first plank at which I would like to look. Her Majesty stated: 
My Government is providing incentives and encouragement to the private sector. 
Let us have a look at certain sections of the private sector in the Northern Territory and see whether the Government, over the last 12 months, has provided encouragement and incentive. Let us look firstly at the building trade. In Alice Springs- I have mentioned this situation in the Senate before- of the 18 builders only four have work at the present time. The situation in 
Darwin is somewhat similar. Many builders are leaving town. Many of the sub-contractors are getting out and their men are leaving. Another facet which is perhaps even more disturbing is that there has been a tightening of credit to builders. This is symptomatic of the economy in the Territory at the present time. Not only are the builders finding it difficult to get work but those who have work, who have construction going forward, find that the building supply companies have tightened their credit. This is something which has not happened before. I shall read a comment made by the  President  of the Master Builders Association. He stated: 
The Liberal and Country Party Government, which some of us were no doubt pleased to see take over the reins, has proved to be absolutely firm in its resolve to cut inflation, and while we would all like to see this achieved, the situation has improved only marginally so that many of us doubt the wisdom of the methods employed. In the meantime the Government has shown itself to be quite insensitive to the arguments against across the board cuts in expenditure and to the problems of particular peoples, groups or areas which could well deserve special consideration. 
I believe this phrase is very telling: 
I believe free enterprise in the Territory has suffered in the process. 
So much for incentive and encouragement in the building industry. Let us leave the building industry and look across at some of the traditional signs and indicators which have been used to assess the health of the economy. Let us look firstly at the savings of people in the Territory. At the present time people, despite the encouragement given to them by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to go out and spend, are not doing so. In June 1976 deposits were $76.3m, the highest they have been for years. Motor vehicle registration is another good indicator. Let us look at what has happened in this area. In June of last year registrations were 33.4 per cent lower than the March registrations. The housing area is another clear indicator. At the present time there are more houses on the books of the estate agents than there have been for years. The prices are dropping- perhaps some of us would say not far enough- and this is an indication that estate agents are not able to get rid of their houses. Not only are there plenty of houses on the books but also fewer people are building. I have already mentioned in this place why they are not building. It is because loans are hard to get and are not sufficient. We have a complicating factor here and that is that the Government is preparing at this very time to resume blocks on which people have not built since the cyclone. So the people who cannot get enough money to build or cannot get builders to do the work for them will have their blocks resumed. 
I have previously mentioned the state of the tourist industry. This is another important industry in the Northern Territory. It has appealed to the Government for help. The Government has offered it a study for $30,000 to last over 2 years. Here there was an opportunity really to do something to provide encouragement and incentive but nothing was done. Again, an opportunity was lost. Many of us in this place have spoken about the dire situation of the beef industry at the present time. Again here was an opportunity for the Government to do something- to provide some incentive and some encouragement. Yet what do we find? Let me read what the  Speaker  of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly had to say. He left his chair to make these comments.  Mr MacFarlane  from Moroak station, representing Elsey, will be known to many honourable senators in this place. He stated in December of last year: 
As you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this Assembly, over 1 8 months ago, passed a cattle price stabilisation scheme. As the honourable Majority Leader then said, this was unique in Australia, as far as orderly marketing of beef went, because that is what it is all about- orderly marketing of beef. The cattle price stabilisation scheme did not even hit the deck. You would not expect it to with the Labor Government but, since December last year, or for almost 12 months, we have had a government of our own choosing, a government which is of the same political persuasion as the majority of this Assembly, and yet we see that we have not been able to arouse a sympathetic smile from the Treasurer or anybody else. 
Later in the same speech he stated: 
The matter I discussed with the Minister was a possible deputation of cattle men to locate markets . . . But the Minister  Mr Sinclair  said he could not get the money from Treasury. What kind of a go is this? It would probably cost $4,000 or $8,000; it might cost $10,000, but it might get the cattlemen in the Northern Territory off the back of the Treasury. You put in a few bob, and you might strike the jackpot. The Minister said he could not get the money and yet we find that one of the main functions of the Department of the Northern Territory is matters related to the production and marketing of beef and the production, processing and export of minerals. I suggest they are not doing a thing about it. 
That is an assessment by a member of the National Country Party of the activities of the present Government. The result of this inactivity in the building industry, the tourist industry and other industries is that expertise is leaving the Territory- I have mentioned many times in the Senate what I have called the inverse multiplier. We know that if we do not get contracts out to people the corner store goes out and when the corner store goes out the big businesses go out, and on it goes. If we have not the service industries functioning well, the whole community grinds down. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann),  when describing the 1976-77 budget, said that it was one which would maintain the financial impetus of the Government's objective to meet its continuing responsibility for the special needs and circumstances of the Territory where the economy is still heavily dependent on a wide range of Government expenditures. The Budget Speech said that, but it did not have that effect. The Queen's Speech said it also, but we see no reason to believe that it will happen following the Queen's Speech. Virtually nothing has been done to encourage or to provide incentives to private industry in the Northern Territory. 
I turn now to this second plank in the Queen's Speech: 
My Government is committed to assisting people overcome poverty and disadvantage ... in a manner increasing their choice, dignity and self-respect. 
These are noble sentiments and again are ones with which we would not disagree. But let us consider the actual situation. Let us consider the Social Development Branch of the Minister's Department in the Northern Territory. It is charged with the responsibility of seeing that poverty and disadvantage are overcome. I refer to the staff situation as it relates to social workers. In 1972 the Public Service Board allocated 29 positions to the Branch. That means that it saw a need in 1972, before the cyclone, for 29 positions of social worker. By December 1973, 13 social workers had been appointed. So a start had been made. This was before the cyclone, when the population was lower and the problems not as great. What do we see now? In March 1977 there are only 5 social workers and two of these are leaving. So, we will have 3 social workers, instead of the twenty-nine who are necessary according to the Public Service Board. Most honourable senators will know that the Public Service Board is not easy to persuade when additional staff is wanted. 
The same situation exists in relation to welfare officers. The case load of the present welfare officers is sixty to one hundred. I put this to the Minister, who would not give me a full answer but suggested that the case load probably ought to be in single figures. I suggest that at the most it should be no more than twenty. Yet at present it is sixty to one hundred cases per welfare worker. This problem is exacerbated by the fact that the welfare workers who are operating in the Territory are given no chance to train. This year some of them wanted to spend one week each semester at the Darwin Community College upgrading their ability to handle their cases. They were not allowed to have a week off to attend the Community College to carry on with the practical part of their studies. Looking beyond the European situation in the Northern Territory to the Aboriginal situation, I point out that in 1974 the Cabinet directed that there be an Aboriginal welfare officers training program. The Department was moving out to work in Aboriginal communities and, quite obviously, we all would support the proposition that we need Aboriginal welfare officers. One was trained. However, at the present time not one is in training and not one is working out in the field. It is fairly obvious that the people on the settlements are getting little or no service at a time when they need a great deal of support. 
In speaking about the whole area of staff, I want to mention the matter of staff ceilings which I have raised before. They are relevant to a discussion of this Department, although they are common to all departments and the comments I will make could be applied to almost every government department in the Northern Territory. The Social Development Branch has 10 vacant positions at present. Let us look at the propositions now in front of us. The Acting Minister for the Northern Territory  (Senator Webster)  said the other day that the Alice Springs centre would open in April. Alice Springs needs 15 professional positions. He also mentioned that Berrimah would open later this year. Berrimah needs 14 positions. We need at least eight more social workers. Actually, we need many more than that. So there is a need for a total of 37 positions, but there are only 10 vacant positions. I am speaking only of professional staff, not ancillary staff. Consequently, it is nonsense for the Minister to say that Alice Springs will open soon when there is no staff and no vacant positions for people to fill. 
This problem has been compounded by the departmental officers hiding the true situation of staffing within their departments. I have mentioned already the Alice Springs situation. During the sitting of an Estimates Committee last year I asked specifically whether there would be sufficient staff to open the Alice Springs centre. The senior officer of the Department who was there at the time assured me that there would be staff available. That assurance is on record in  Hansard.  He was hiding the truth. Recently I went through the Darwin Hospital. As I went into the boiler room I was told that there was no shortage of staff. I made a few inquiries and found that before the cyclone there were 7 maintenance fitters in the boiler room. At presentafter the cyclone and with damaged equipment in the hospital- there is one maintenance fitter. To tell me that there was no shortage of staff was an insult to me, an insult to the people working in the hospital and an unnecessary cover-up. 
However, the best example of this attitude occurred during the recent visit of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to Darwin. One week before the Minister went to Darwin 3 officers came up from Adelaide to work in the Darwin office. These 3 officers stayed in the Darwin office for the full week of the Minister's visit, and one week after the Minister left Darwin they returned to Adelaide. This is a frightening situation, particularly when the Minister had made the comment that more staff was neededthat means that more than those 3 officers who were sent up were needed- and said that the office could have two more. What she did not know was that those three went back and that two more of the existing staff in the office were to go the next week, putting the office further behind than ever. From what I have said up to date in this place it should be clear that I will not join in the game of knocking the Public Service. Public servants in many cases are doing an excellent job under very trying conditions, and I certainly am not here to make adverse comments about them. Their loyalty must be to the community. They are called 'public servants'. Of course they have some loyalty to their Minister; no one would deny that. However, in the final analysis their loyalty must be to the community, to the people they are to serve. 
I mention now two or three other areas of the Social Development Branch. In the cottage home situation the staff are on duty 24 hours a day. There is no support staff and no professional assistance. The homes have virtually become dumping grounds for the disadvantaged young people in the Northern Territory. There is no rehabilitation program because there is no staff to conduct it. The same situation applies in regard to welfare officers. At present in these homes there are fourteen or fifteen children to only one officer. I have already put a question to the Minister about this. This means that, if one of the children was hurt and had to go to hospital where the child could well wait for two to two and a half hours, the other 14 children would be left completely unsupervised. These are children who have been committed to homes because their parents cannot handle them, they are disadvantaged or they are under mild sentence from the court. 
For some years the Department has had a recreation program, with an officer appointed to conduct it. However, the officer was taken off some months ago and now there is no recreation program at all in the Northern Territory. Certainly some work is being done by the Young Men's Christian Association, but it is an outside organisation receiving government assistance. The Department has the responsibility of providing this program and is not meeting it. 
Moving from the European to the Aboriginal situation, we find that it is even worse. There is massive unemployment on Aboriginal communities. This will come as no surprise to any honourable senator. At Papunya, to which a group of us went a couple of weeks ago, at least 80 per cent of Aboriginal persons are unemployed. There is also massive unemployment off the communities. I have raised this matter in this place before. People who worked on pastoral properties have moved off. Groups are moving off the stations and setting up fringe camps around the towns, with no welfare officers to support them. We have already discussed the difficulty these people find in obtaining social security payments. I have brought this to the attention of the Minister for Social Security and she has agreed that the present way may not be the best way to handle the situation. But at the moment nothing is being done. There have been cutbacks in assistance to voluntary groups. I think I mentioned in the Senate not very long ago that the Alice Springs emergency Home Help group which received $4,500 last year has had its allocation cut back to $2,500 and will have no money to operate from May of this year. So the record in the whole area of the disadvantaged and the area of poverty is a sorry one. The movement during the last 12 months has been downhill. There has been no achievement. It is hypocritical for the Government to claim that there has been any achievement whatsoever in this area of social development. The Queen stated in her Speech: 
My Government is improving the existing arrangements in education in pursuit of equality of opportunity for all Australian students. 
I will limit my remarks to the Northern Territory. There is no doubt that other honourable senators will have comments to make about attacks that have been made on the Schools Commission, the area of technical and further education and so on. What improvement have we seen in the Northern Territory? The results in the matriculation classes in Darwin high schools for 1976 show a 29 per cent success rate or, if you like to look at it in another way, a 71 per cent failure rate. I do not have to be told that success in matriculation is not the only yardstick to use in education. But if people go to matriculation classes, it is quite clear that they go for one purpose, that is, to gain the qualification- the matriculation certificate- which will either enable them to enter university, a college of advanced education or, under the new regulations, the Public Service. The figures show that 7 1 per cent of students have been denied this opportunity. Is that an improvement? Would this happen anywhere else in Australia? Can we see any equality of education in a 71 per cent failure rate? The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  alluded last week to comments that had been made about the out-station movement, or what I prefer to call the homeland centres movement. 
-They are being looked at at the moment. But obviously it must have something to do with the Department of Education which is the direct responsibility of the Federal Minister for Education. 
I think that perhaps we could take up this matter at a later time. I am quite happy to discuss it at this time or later. Certainly, I am pointing to the lack of equality in education for those young people for reasons which I am happy to discuss but perhaps not now. If we look at the Papunya situation- I mention it only because a group of us went there a couple of weeks ago- we find that there are over 100 children in homeland centres outside Papunya who receive no education. The Department has not provided a visiting teacher for over 100 students. At Papunya itself there are 140 students in the school and they have only 4 teachers. These students would range from preschool level through to post-primary school level. There are Aborigines and Europeans. That group of children has 4 teachers only to look after it. We cannot say that this is equality. The situation I am speaking of at Papunya will exist at other places. 
There is need for support for the physically and mentally handicapped. I commend the Minister, as I have done here before, for reversing his original decision and allowing some people to be appointed in this area. But we still do not have the numbers we had back in 1 975. So we need to see the situation improved- in fact, restored to what it was in 1975- and to have more people appointed. The Community Colleges have come in for a good deal of comment in the last few months. In both Darwin and Alice Springs the 
Community Colleges are understaffed. The colleges cannot provide the courses that are required by the groups that they are trying to serve. I will finish my remarks on this adult education area by reading a comment from the  Northern Territory News  concerning the Northern Territory Division of the Arts Council of Australia. The article is dated 8 March 1 977, the same day the Queen's Speech was presented, and states: 
The N.T. Division of the Arts Council of Australia is facing a financial crisis. 
At the annual meeting  president Mrs Nan  Giese said the question of Government subsidies was still of considerable concern for the future survival of the division. 
The Department of the N.T. grant for 1976-77 had been reduced to $ 10,000 and the grant from the Federal body had been decreased by $4,600. 
With inflation running at an average of 1 5 per cent a year since 1 975 the fall-off in real terms of funding to the division this year was an astronomical 38 per cent. 
That can hardly be regarded as an improvement on the conditions that operated previously. I have spoken about staffing policies when discussing problems in the Department of Social Development. I would like to make one or two comments on the works program which  Senator Keeffe  mentioned this morning. He spoke about deferrals and the problems that have been faced. We have had no indication whether the Dripstone school will go ahead. Some projects have been delayed. They include the Sadadeen High School, projects at Borroloola, Ramingining and Lake Nash, extensions at Katherine and so on. In other areas there has been no attempt to say that anything will happen. The projects have just been dropped altogether. There is no money for minor new works, so we are told. Where is the bold vision of the Survey of Education Buildings on Aboriginal Communities, the project that the Minister chooses to denigrate so often? Where is the equality of opportunity for the young people in the Northern Territory? It is quite clear from what I have said that there is no improvement and there is no equality. The fourth plank of the Government which I want to examine was outlined by  Her  Majesty the Queen as follows: 
My Government's economic program is designed to overcome unemployment. 
I was almost tempted not to mention this one because so much has been said already about the fallacy of this proposition. Even if it were an aim of the Government, it certainly could not be classed as successful. I do not think that even  Senator Carrick  with his acknowledged skill in statistical legerdemain would be able to conceal the unemployment situation in the Territory. Let us look at the figures. The first figures available in the Northern Territory were for August 1 976 when the unemployment rate was 5.44 per cent of the work force. At the time of the Queen's Speech I am assured that it was over 6 per cent of the work force in the Northern Territory. This does not include a terrific number of Aborigines who do not register as unemployed because they are not near the offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service. The figures do not include many young people in the Northern Territory who do not meet what I call the cosmetic criteria. When they go to apply for a job they are told to have their hair cut or to have a shave and a bath. Despite the comments that have been made about dole bludgers, these are people who in some cases are exercising their right to change jobs. This has been mentioned already as one of the freedoms to which the Government is committed. But in most cases, they are people wanting to work who cannot find work. I remind honourable senators that in the Northern Territory we do not have the heavy industries which provide  Senator Cotton  and some other people with the ammunition to enable them to say that people do not want to work because jobs are available and they will not go to them. Because time is running out, I will deal with the next statement of the Queen a little more quickly. She said: 
My Government is acting also to protect and expand political rights. 
I wonder whether the word 'acting' might not be a Freudian slip. I repeat what she said: 
My Government is acting also to protect and expand political rights. 
Of course, this is of particular interest to us in the Northern Territory. The subject of statehood has been mentioned along with the development of town councils on European communities and town councils on Aboriginal communities. I will make a couple of comments on this matter. There has been an interesting change of attitude in regard to statehood on the part of the Legislative Assembly or certainly on the part of the Leader of the majority parties in the Northern Territory. It might be recalled that the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, made a statement that the Territory would achieve statehood in a number of years.  Dr Letts,  the majority leader in the Legislative Assembly, despite the fact that he had given evidence to the contrary to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory, said: 'Yes, we will go along with this. We will have statehood in so many years'. But then he attended a seminar conducted by the Australian Labor Party. He realises now that perhaps it is not as easy as he thought. He had this to say at his Press conference on 8 March 1977, as reported in the  Northern Territory News: 
The problem is, it's not just a matter of giving the Territory the administrative machinery to govern itself, actually declaring it a State may not be possible under the Constitution as it stands. 
Explaining this during his weekly press conference this morning  Dr Letts  said that the 'dispute' might resolve around Section 121 of the Constitution which is not entirely clear on whether or not it is sufficient for the creation of a new State. 
The Government can do either of two things,  Dr Letts  said. 
It can declare us a State and then sit back to see whether anyone challenges it, or it can use Section 122 of the Constitution to conduct a referendum throughout Australia on the question of Statehood for the Territory. ' 
He did not add to that statement, as was said earlier on, that referendums in the past do not have a very good track record. This is another example of a half-baked idea that was thrown out on the campaign trail. We have seen the suavity with which it was embraced by the local Legislative Assembly members and sold to the community at large. It is rather interesting to note as a sidelight the personal attacks that were made on me because I dared to say that the Constitution was not clear on the fact that the Northern Territory could have statehood. 
Aboriginal communities are not happy about the support that has been given them in trying to develop their town councils. I make no further comment about that. The evidence is clear in front of us and in front of the land rights group which has received telegrams from the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council. I was interested that  Senator Wood  mentioned votes in referenda. I would like to draw attention to something he said. We in the Northern Territory get our news via Queensland. This is one of our many problems. The news seems to change slightly as it goes through. The Northern Territory people cannot understand this change of attitude. They feel that they cannot really trust the Government. They join  Senator Wood  in wondering whether they can trust a government which consists of what he called somersaulters, ventriloquists and magicians. 
I make a very quick comment in the general area of political freedom and so on to talk about individual liberties. I was very concerned to find the other day that the police headquarters telephone was connected to a tape recorder so that everybody who rings in has his message recorded. I am not sure that people are told that this is done. It is a little disconcerting. We know that the police in the Northern Territory refuse to wear numbers. The answer I got when I tackled the Commissioner on this was that all a person has to do is to ask a policeman his name and he would be told. It is rather an interesting situation to stand outside a pub and to hear some of the people who are being manhandled by the police saying 'What is your name?'. Honourable senators would be surprised how many Joe Blows there are in the Northern Territory. 
We are unsure in the Northern Territory about land rights legislation. We know that  Dr Letts  has been in some trouble with the Minister in Canberra for introducing legislation before discussing it. One of my colleagues mentioned that this morning. But this is not the only problem. I asked the members of the Northern Land Council for a phrase to sum up their attitude towards the legislation which has been brought forward in the Northern Territory for discussion and which is at present laying on the table of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I give their comment exactly as it was given to me: 'Appalling in principle and unworkable in practice. ' They claim that the whole of the legislation is not in line with Woodward. The sacred sites legislation is not as good as that which is operating in Western Australia, and that is the only place where there is any other similar legislation. The legislation is not as good as the former legislation which was operating in the Northern Territory. The permit legislation has reverted to a paternalistic approach which does not recognise the rights of the traditional owners. I repeat those comments from the Northern Land Council for what they are worth. Perhaps this is more a comment on the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly than on the Queen's Speech and the actions of the Government. I personally feel that the Minister is sincere. I wonder whether the little brothers in the Assembly, the political colleagues of the present Government, are learning from their Canberra colleagues. It was rather interesting to listen to  AM  when  Dr Letts  was asked whether he was having some conflict with the Federal Government about this. He said: We can have plenty of confrontation with our Federal colleagues without having to rely on this Act'. I leave that without any further comment. 
I say 2 things about defence because it has been mentioned this morning. They are not related to the full defence area but they will indicate an attitude which is in existence at present in the Northern Territory. The rent on the Royal Australian Air Force houses went up 300 per cent recently. The rise will apply early in April unless we can manage to get the decision reversed. The increase of 300 per cent is for what many people call sub-standard houses, homes which have not been fully repaired since the cyclone. One can imagine what this does to the morale of the servicemen in the Northern Territory. 
There is a good deal of concern locally that some defence establishments are being patrolled by civilian security companies. Some honourable senators may recall that I asked the Minister concerned a question on this. I received no reply in this place but I did get a written reply. The Minister said that he thought this was quite OK, that it was a reasonable proposition. Perhaps we get a bit more testy than other people because we are up there on the northern coastline. Some of us wonder, if we cannot defend our own bases, what will happen when we try to defend Australia. I do not think that it is necessary to give further examples although plenty are available. I was interested to read in the  National Times  of 15 March an article headed 'Where is Fraser taking us', by P. P. McGuinness. In the article McGuinness says: 
Governments have, ultimately, to be judged on what they do, not by what they promise. 
I cannot completely accept the cynicism that is implied in that comment. Broken promises to me are important and credibility certainly has some significance. But as I indicated at the outset the Government invites us to assess what has been going on and to carry out our own evaluation. 
I have looked briefly at the areas of incentive and encouragement to the private sector, assistance to the disadvantaged and the poor, improvments in education, unemployment, political rights and individual liberties. I am suggesting that all these matters have been weighed and found wanting. Every indication is given to us that the present Government is not interested in the Territory. This not a novel thought. I have raised this concept in this chamber a number of times. The whole program for the Northern Territory is shot through with devious practices, half truths and a cavalier disregard for the people of the Northern Territory. I maintain that the Government stands condemned on its own standards, condemned by its own colleagues, condemned by its supporters and condemned, of course, by the rest of us in the Northern Territory. It will be quite clear in October of this year that the local Country-Liberal Party, when it faces the electors, and has to bear the brunt of what the Government has done or rather failed to do in the last 12 months. 
-My question is addressed to the Acting Minister for the Northern Territory. He will be aware that the museum in Darwin was destroyed by Cyclone Tracy. Since that time the valuable natural history collection and other equally important items have been stored in temporary facilities and such exhibitions as could be mounted have been displayed in rented buildings. Is the Minister aware that a good deal of concern is being expressed in the Territory over possible damage to the collections, which are unique in Australia? Could the Minister give some indication of when permanent facilities for storage and exhibitions will be built to enable both locals and tourists to take  advantage of these items which have been collected over the years? 
I direct my question to the Acting Minister for the Northern Territory. No doubt the Minister has been advised that electricity supplies to the Darwin area have been seriously interrupted once again by mechanical failure. On this occasion the interruptions were caused by the failure of an oil line which was temporarily repaired after cyclone Tracy. Will the Minister indicate when the necessary additional generator will be installed or other steps taken to provide a reliable supply to overcome the hardship and food wastage which is becoming a way of life for the people of Darwin? 
-The Minister for Administrative Services will appreciate that to enable senators in the Northern Territory to establish contact with new constituents it is necessary for them to have access to new enrolment lists. These are at present not available to honourable senators. Will the Minister consider asking the Commonwealth Electoral Office to supply Territory senators with these lists as they become available? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) Has it been reported that educational services to the homeland centres out of Papunya, Northern Territory, have been withdrawn leaving over one hundred children without schooling. If so, why were these services withdrawn. 
Is the situation peculiar to Papunya, or have services been withdrawn from other homeland centres. 
Has there been a change of attitude on the part of the Government to the provision of visiting teachers and other support for Aborigines who return to their traditional country. 
Is the withdrawal of services to Papunya related to the Government's austerity measures. 
How many 'outstations 'are at present being regularly serviced by visiting teachers and what percentage is this of those who have requested such support. 
I rise to support my Leader's motion about the growing concern at the Government's retreat from its responsibilities to education. I will direct my comments to education in the Northern Territory with some emphasis on Aboriginal education, not only because that is a particular interest of mine but also because it is the direct responsibility of the Federal Government. The disadvantage in doing this, of course, is that it means that I cannot comment on what the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has said and what  Senator Tehan  has said. However I confine my remarks to the area of the Northern Territory. The Minister cannot, as he so often tries to do, avoid his responsibility in this area. He cannot say that this is a statutory body or that this is a State responsibility or that this is an authority matter. This is his own Department. The Northern Territory Department of Education is the Northern Territory division of the Minister's own Department. I will refer later to comments made by the Northern Territory Teachers Federation and the Northern Territory Council of the Government Schools Organisation Parents and Teachers- COGSO. The comments made by  Mr McGuinness  in the  National Times  of 15 March has already been referred to. He said that governments have ultimately to be judged on what they do, not what they promise. Perhaps, for the Minister's benefit we had better extend that to say that governments have ultimately to be judged on what they do, not what they say they do or not what they promise to do. So the debate today is about not only the sins of omission, as the Minister might put it, but also the sins of commission. After all, the situation that exists in the Territory- as it does all over Australia at the present time- is a result of Government decisions taken not only in education but also in other areas and the effect, of course, that they have on the education program. 
I should like to look first at vocational training, both European and Aboriginal. In the European area, despite what the Minister says, this is the first time in the Territory that apprentices have not been able to find a job. They have not been able to find an employer who is prepared to take them and this, as I have indicated earlier, is a direct result of government cutbacks in the building and other industries. Like the multiplier effect about which I have spoken previously, this has a number of effects. One of the effects has been that there are no opportunities for young apprentices. I mention also that for those apprentices who have managed to find someone to look after them the shortage of staff at the Darwin Community College makes it difficult to provide courses for them. Later I will read part of a letter from the staff at the Darwin Community College to indicate the problems that they are facing by the shortage of staff due to the cutbacks in finance and the freeze on staff positions. The people in the Northern Territory have to send their apprentices interstate. 
I should like to examine quickly the Aboriginal situation because this is perhaps the most glaring example of the Government's inefficiency. It is a retreat from its responsibility. I want to look at 2 aspects. For a school to be effective the child must see it as having some purpose. He must see that at the end of the time that he is going to spend at school he will have employment or he will have employment opportunities. He must see that he is not just going along to that school on the settlement just for its own sake. All children see this, but for the Aboriginal child it is more important. I should like to elaborate on that point but time will not allow. I turn quickly to the second aspect of vocational training. As written in  Omar Khayyam,  as the Minister would appreciate, there has been much talk about it but very little action. Interdepartmental committees have been set up. We have had the Duke and Sumerland report that I have already mentioned. Many reports on investigations which have been held have been written, but no action has been taken. This is the important point. There has been a retreat away from some plan or some program. The blame must be shared between the departments- it is partly the fault of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, it is party the fault of the Department of Employment and Industrial 
Relations and it is partly the fault of the Department of Education. It is total Government policy which is to blame. The Government has retreated from its responsibilities to the young Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory. There is a history of procrastination over many years-the 23 years to which the Minister referred and certainly there was procrastination during the years that the Labor Government was in office. I make no bones about that. But we are looking at what this Government is doing at this time. We do not want to be referring back to the Labor Government or to the 23 years prior to that unless it is a build-up. There has been no real achievement by the Government in this area. I turn now to repairs and maintenance to school buildings. Last week the Minister referred to a Northern Territory Teachers Federation Press release. I remind the Minister of the opening 2 paragraphs of the Press release. It states: 
A serious repair and maintenance problem exists in the Northern Territory Aboriginal schools. 
The perennial backlog has been exacerbated by a Federal Government decision to limit funds on minor new works in Aboriginal communities for the remainder of the financial year. 
There will be no cuts but funds will be limited for the rest of this financial year. The Press release refers later to the fact that a number of schools have been designed for air-conditioning and that has not been supplied. It comments: 
The conditions that teachers and students work under in these schools would not be tolerated in white schools in Australia. 
Is that a retreat from the equality statement that was made by  Her  Majesty the Queen and that which was made in the earlier speech by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)?  The Minister has mentioned the Elcho Island situation, claiming that there is some improvement. I remind the Minister that the school was taken over while his Government was in office. The Northern Territory Teachers Federation recognised the Minister's action- I am referring to one of its documents- in these words: 
The Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick  announced in the Senate on Tuesday IS February the restoration of $1.2m to projects at the Elcho Island school. 
Later the document gave some background to this situation. It stated: 
In November, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  Mr Viner  announced that there would be $6.5m for Education and Health, capital works in the N.T. . . . Sl.lm was set aside for new toilets, a domestic science and manual arts wing and a library. Maintenance of teacher houses was allocated $110,000. 
In January, the Minister for Education secretly withdrew the money. Its withdrawal did not come to light until the crisis blew up. The reason given for withdrawal was that the money could not be spend this financial year. 
Not having the great faith that some others have in the Minister the authors finished their submission by saying: 
The crisis is not over. The money has still to be spent. 
Plenty of examples come from what the Minister referred to as E-Day last year. It was interesting that the Minister commended the people who came forward on E-Day to state their case. I remind him that the feeling was not reciprocated. I did not hear a great deal of commendation for government action in education. 
Let us look then towards new buildings in the Northern Territory. An amount of $ 18.6m was allocated this year for all minor new works in the Northern Territory. Out of that amount $7.7m will be expended. This again is not a cut. It cannot be called a cut. It is called a deferral- a handier device. It is a device that one uses to say: We can tell people that we will spend this money but actually for these reasons and those reasons we cannot spend it'. I could go through and give a number of examples of buildings, not only school buildings but also teachers' residences, where the same situation applies. 
Let us look at the staffing record that we have been invited to examine. We have been asked to look at the record of this Government in the last 16 months. In the bilingual section, which was one of the greatest breakthroughs by the Labor Administration in its time of office, the positions of Principal Education Advisor and 3 senior education officers are all empty. In other words virtually all positions for advisory staff for this vital part of the program are empty. Many schools, particularly rural schools, are understaffed. Some have no staff at all. The turnover is excessively high. In areas of high turnover there is not a great deal of efficiency in teaching programs. The reasons for the turnover are quite clear- conditions of employment, living conditions and no incentive to the people to go into the bush. If honourable senators go back to Labor times they will not find the same problems, despite what has been said. In the schools area we have a staffing record which does not bear talking about. Let me refer now to the Darwin Community College which I mentioned earlier. I will read briefly from a letter written on behalf of the Staff Association Committee. It reads: 
On behalf of the Staff Association of the Darwin Community College, I write to request your sympathetic consideration of the problems caused to this institution and to the people of the Territory, by the imposition of recent staff cuts - 
The letter was written in May 1 976- and the consequent likelihood of inadequate staff numbers in 1977 and later years. You will be aware that this institution was created to serve the post secondary educational needs of the Northern Territory. 
Later in the letter this comment is made: 
The future of the College seems now to be under serious threat. 
And to explain what would happen with a shortage of staff in 1977 these remarks are made: 
College departments have assessed the consequences of an inadequate increase in 1977. These include cancellation of existing courses, the indefinite postponement of second and third stages of courses at present in their first year and a total inability to meet new course needs, besides affecting severely the academic standing of the College and its ability to gain national accreditation for its courses and to attract staff of high calibre. 
A number of these things have occurred as was suggested they would because of a shortage of staff. Let us move now to the out-station movement- the homeland centre movementthat the Minister mentioned previously. The Minister supports that concept. He has given me a statement which says he has not changed his policy. But again we have a shortage of visiting teachers. We have a shortage of Aboriginal teachers. We have a shortage of vehicles to get people around to the centres. You,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  know the problems faced by the parents of isolated children from the work of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts. We know very clearly the comments made by those parents last year when they talked about the inadequacy of government support for students in the isolated areas. I have a note here which suggests that the School of the Air which operates out of Katherine cannot operate because a car is not available for the person involved. The same situation exists in Alice Springs. 
Let us look now at the guidance and special services staff. Out of 1 1 counsellor positions in Aboriginal schools only three are filled. Out of 1 1 school liaison positions four are filled. In the European schools the staffing is better but there is inadequate support for the people who are working. Out of the 16 educators, band two in the adult education area- a most important area- eleven have been appointed. This is good, but let us look at the people who have to work with the educators, the Aboriginal Adult Education assistants. Out of the sixteen who can be appointed three have been appointed. The reason for this, quite clearly, is a freeze on positions. It is a deferral or a cut if you like. This means that the 1 1 European staff educators who have been appointed are rendered almost ineffective because it is the job of the Aboriginal assistants to identify the needs and to assist the teacher to prepare for them. I have already mentioned the European situation at the Community College. We might ask what has happened to the Katherine rural college which was to be built this year. That has also been deferred. It is not good enough to say that we are trying. There must be some reason why suddenly in the 16 months since the Government took office these positions have not been filled. Even if there were no reasons the simple fact is that the positions are not filled, the work is not being done and the conditions have slipped back alarmingly in the last 12 months. 
I mentioned the associated services at some of the colleges. The students at Yirara College, to use one example have no dental service because of inadequate staff a the dental clinic. There is not adequate staff at Yirara College to take students for emergency treatment. It is quite clear that this is a retreating from responsibility. I have mentioned already the problem of the rehabilitation of juveniles. We will have a great many problems in the future because we have no rehabilitation. The need for support of the Aboriginal children in community schools has been recognised. It basically has been withdrawn. No research is being done as there was 3 years ago. A need exists for special curricula. No work is being done in this area. There is a need for inservice training. Little work is being done in this area. A cut- there is no other word for it- of $217,000 has been made in the independent schools in the Territory which  Senator Tehan  mentioned. I am not attacking the Department of Education. The people there are doing their job. I am not attacking the teachers. Many who are dedicated and who are trying to do the job have inadequate resources. The cut of half a million dollars for plant and equipment in 1976-77 rendered it difficult for them to do their work. 
It is quite clear that the situation is the result of positive government action- across the board cuts, positive action to defer building programs, positive action to cut public works programsdecisions based on political philosophy rather than need. Clearly the Government has what I would call a crossed finger philosophy. It takes decisions and hopes that things will go right. It takes decisions and hopes that officers will carry on and make the thing work and that somehow it will get through. Despite the Minister's bluster, his acknowledged sleight of hand with statisticswe had a delightful performance of this today- and all his attempts to blame Labor for the situation, he cannot disguise the fact that the Government has retreated from its responsibility to education in the Northern Territory, an area where, without doubt, it has full responsibility. I support fully the proposition moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I had hoped to move straight into a discussion on the National Aboriginal Education Committee because I thought that was what the debate was all about tonight. But I must take a few minutes of the Senate 's time to make one or two comments, not in a nitpicking way but about what  Senator Kilgariff  said when he was discussing the situation. An awful lot of nonsense has been spoken about the SEBAC report- the Survey into Educational Buildings in Aboriginal Communities. Quite clearly this task was undertaken. It was the first time this task had ever been undertaken to see what was required in the way of Aboriginal buildings. It grew out of a dream of the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs about a desire for equality. After visiting the schools in the Northern Territory, he said: 'We want schools for the Aboriginal children of the same standard as those enjoyed by European children'. I do not think that anyone would criticise this proposition. I remind  Senator Kilgariff  that the survey was undertaken after 23 years of the previous administration. The buildings that were there at that stage must be assessed to be the result of that administration. 
It is fair to say that the survey showed a shocking situation existed in regard to educational buildings in the Northern Territory. It is a situation which improved slightly but not as much as many of us would have liked to see. There is no doubt that the survey came out with a program which was completely beyond any government to implement in a short time. Certainly, it could not have been implemented in a short period of 3 years- two 18-month bursts that were given to the Australian Labor Party in government. Work was commenced and work was stopped for the very reason that work has stopped at the present time if we listen to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  of the present Governmentbecause of the economic situation. It is as simple as that. 
-The report was introduced and certain priorities were set. There is no doubt about it. The work was commenced, as the honourable senator knows. Without going into material that we presented this afternoon, I think that the debate showed up the situation in the Territory at present. It showed up the situation in Aboriginal education. It showed up, certainly in the points I tried to put forward in a constructive way, the ineffectiveness of the Government to meet the needs of the Territory. I agree with  Senator Kilgariff  that we should train Aboriginal teachers. In fact, as he well knows, I was intimately involved with that very work while I was with the Education Department. There is no doubt that we need more Aboriginal teachers. But we also need more assistance for European teachers. I am glad to see that  Senator Kilgariff  is suggesting to his Government that it should give more money for this, that it should provide money to train European teachers to move out into the settlements. Although we all agree that Aboriginal teachers should be used, there is no doubt that there will be an interim period before a sufficient number of Aboriginal teachers will be available to go out to teach. 
I agree with the proposition that we should retain or do what we can to encourage the retention of the Aboriginal culture. Again, like a number of other things, this was an activity of the Labor Government. I think it could be said that this was a Labor initiative because much was done in the 3 years of the Labor Government. Out of this very concept came the bilingual program and many other initiatives. It is unfortunate that the present Government has seen fit to cut funds to allow adult Aborigines to do this very thing. It is not much good honourable senators opposite saying this should be done unless the Government is prepared to finance it. As the Minister and  Senator Kilgariff  know, funds have been cut in this area. There is not enough money to do the work with the young people. There are problems in the outstations. I mentioned this fact this afternoon. I made reference to the fact that we need more staff. We need more resources and we need support. Again I mentioned this afternoon that fund cutting had meant that there was not a sufficient number of cars to enable people to move out into these areas. The freezing of positions has meant that there are not enough Aboriginal people to work in some of these places. Certainly, we agree with the proposition, but we want to see things done. As we mentioned this afternoon, it is action that counts, not words. 
I was rather interested in the comment with which  Senator Kilgariff  finished his speech. He talked about the man in Arnhem Land with 4 sons, three of whom were to be trained in nomadic or bush ways and one of whom was to stay at school. I shall have a few comments to make a little later about this. I am not sure whether this is the sort of decision we ought to encourage. After all, how much decision making do we in the European communities leave with the parents? How much decision making do we allow the parents to make for the child? I am convinced- I will make mention of this when I speak about the National Aboriginal Education Committee- that we should leave a range of alternatives for young people and that we should not limit their choices. It should be the goal for any government in the education system not to limit choices but to provide a range of alternatives. 
I move to join with my colleagues and honourable senators opposite in welcoming the establishment of the National Aboriginal Education Committee. As  Senator Keeffe  has commented, it was a Labor initiative and on that ground perhaps we on this side of the Senate particularly welcome it. Like many other honourable senators I know the  chairman  and a good many of the members. I look forward to the contribution which I know they have to make and I look forward to their making this contribution. May I publicly congratulate  Mr Stephen  Albert, as I ave done privately, on his appointment as  chairman  and commend the Government on its selection of  Mr Albert  for this position. He is a Western Australian which puts him in front by one mark. He went to the Northern Territory to live; that puts him in front by another mark. So he is not too bad. I think that we will see some good work from  Mr Stephen  Albert. I know that the people in the Northern Territory will be particularly pleased to see  Mr Kevin  Rogers and  Mr Don  Lane as members of the Committee and also  Ms Valadian  and  Mr Phil  Stewart as members with expertise in a special area. I hope it is not long before honourable senators on this side of the chamber will have an opportunity to meet the Committee members and have discussion with them. I think it is pretty important that we who are as interested as others in Aboriginal education should have an opportunity to meet with the people, perhaps put our points of view and talk with them. 
I wish to refer to the terms of reference of the Committee. I have made a precis of them under 5 headings which are as follows: one- provide informed Aboriginal views on the educational needs of the Aboriginal people and appropriate methods of meeting these needs; two- assist to monitor existing programs; three- assist in developing programs and policies; four- undertake and promote investigations, studies and projects on which to base views; and five- contribute policy initiatives which will serve to redress the education imbalance which Aboriginal people experience. I would like to commend the Government on the breadth of these terms of reference. The Committee is certainly starting out with a good framework within which to work. Since this is a particular interest of mine, I seek the indulgence of the Senate to make a few comments on some of those areas. It is a field in which I have had some experience. I have certainly been involved in the Territory for some time. I speak with that background of experience and not from an Australia-wide experience. 
The first term of reference, or 'task' as I call it, is to present Aboriginal views. As far as I am concerned, this was the key phrase of the terms of reference. It is a particularly sound principle especially in any system which is community oriented to go to the people and ask them what they want. The understanding is that the people- the clients- will know what they want. So, in obtaining the views of Aboriginal people, we will be getting firstly, the views of the Committee themselves. They come from a wide background. They are people from all over Australiapeople from a wide area of interests. They have expertise in special areas and they will know their own area. If they do not know their own area certainly they will be able to go back and talk to the people there. So we shall have that background of Aboriginal views. We shall have the views of the Aboriginal people in the field. To me, this is vital. In fact, I think the success of the Committee will depend on how well they identify the needs of the people out in the field. If they can identify community needs, manage to express them out to the group and convert these into policy- one might almost say philosophy'- to hand to the Government then this will be the test of how well they have worked. I am convinced that the group selected will do this job well. They will hand to the Minister and to the Government a sound set of ideas on which to base government action. 
The third group of views will be those of Aboriginal people of all ages- not only of adults but of young people as well. I mentioned this briefly in my introduction. I am committed to the view that young people are entitled to a choice. They are entitled to a range of alternatives- of at least two. If I had to comment on the situation presented by  Senator Kilgariff  I would say of the parent who said: 'I am teaching these three the ways of the bush and nothing else,' that one could perhaps feel a little critical of that attitude. What if the young people later on do not want to stay in the bush? What if they want to move somewhere else? They will not have that choice open to them. I am sure that when the Committee look at this they will hear from a lot of young people- as I have heard and no doubt others have heard- that they do not necessarily want to follow what their parents have chosen for them. There is an opportunity there to follow the old ways and, perhaps, to have a look at the new ways and make a choice later. 
At this stage, I want to make a plea for some recognition of the fact that Europeans have a contribution to make. I have no doubt that there has been a reaction in the community in some places that Europeans have nothing to contribute. I feel that they have a lot to contribute. I think they have a lot to give to the Minister and a lot to give to the community. They have a lot to hand out generally. I make a plea to those 3 groups- to the Committee, to the Minister and to the community- to recognise that these people have a contribution to make. As recently as the 7-12 March issue of the  National Times  the author of an article in that paper was highly critical. In an article headed 'Aborigines now have land rights but no schools'  Mr John  Edwards wrote: 
The point is that those white advisers and administrators who, like  Dr Coombs,  insist that the preservation of tribal society is both possible and desirable, and who for that reason accord a low priority to European education and housing, are not speaking for the Aboriginal people but for a philosophy of simplicity and traditionalism which they themselves find attractive. 
This may well be so. I give that as just one example of the attitude indicated in some newspapers. I am not suggesting for a moment that we should return to the 'Balander knows best' philosophy. I am simply making a plea that the contribution which they have to make is allowed to be made. In the Northern Territory, and no doubt in other parts of Australia, some of these people I am referring to speak the language of the people of their area. In fact, in many cases they have recorded the language- they have provided an authography and have taught it to the people so they can read their own language. Many of them have spent many years working in the field studying the Aboriginal culture. The people to whom I refer do not press a particular point of view but they have something to offer. They want to help. I am suggesting that we ought not to reject what they have to offer. Probably the contribution they have to make will be best made in the methods area that is referred to in the terms of reference. I shall come back to that a little later. 
I take the liberty of mentioning a few names. Some have been mentioned already but I shall mention a few from the Northern Territory. I shall limit myself to those. In the area of preschooling I mention the name of the late Joyce 
Gilbert, who was a pioneer in that area. The work which she started was carried on by one of her close colleagues, Beryl Edmonds, a woman from a mission who not only spoke the language fluently but also had a deep understanding of the culture of the people in that area. In the language teaching area I mention Beulah Lowe, from the same mission, who again was the first to record the language in that area and did fantastic work in developing authography for the area. Bill McGrath was one of the authors of the original reports on which the bilingual program was based. 
Tony Metcalf was another Western Australian who went to the Northern Territory and made a contribution in both areas. Of course, the Summer Institute of Linguistics has done tremendous work in the field. In curriculum development  Dr Don  Williams, who was at Galliwinku for many years as head and then moved to work with the Curriculum Development Department, is now in Canberra at the Canberra College of Advanced Education.  Dr John  Grant, who did his work in the manual arts skills, has worked also in curriculum development and is now working down here. So one might go on to mention  Dr Maria  Brandl, who is working on social structure with teachers, medical personnel and so on. I make the plea that we take what these people have to offer and use it. The bilingual program we have mentioned already grew out of this sort of cooperation. 
Another phrase that is mentioned is the 'educational needs of Aboriginal people'. This will be looked at by the Committee. I am pleased to see the Minister has built in the concept of a total program and is asking the Committee to look at all age groups. I mentioned this afternoon the great area of need in the vocational training area. This is an express need, not one that has just been pointed out by Europeans. I mentioned before in this place that I was fortunate to study with the group that produced the Stephen report 2 or 3 years ago. From discussions within that group it was quite clear that people throughout the Territory were looking for vocational training. It is vital that we have vocational training and that we have employment opportunities so that young people do not ask the question: 'Education for what?' when we encourage them to go to school. The Minister recognises this situation and I am sure the Committee will see the need and make recommendations. Until now there has been a lot of talk but no action. Let us see that some action comes out of this. I stress that this is not a European view but simply the reporting back of an expressed view. 
Another area in which there has been an expressed view by Aboriginal people to date- I am sure the Committee will see this- is in the area of adult education. I think steps have been taken in the right direction in this matter. All we need to do is to ensure that sufficient funds and staff are made available so that when the needs are identified through Aboriginal assistance and through the Committee something can be done about meeting those needs. I move to the Aboriginal and European school situation and the Aboriginal and European communities. This is a special area and one which does not apply only to the Northern Territory, although it is particularly relevant to that area. Special assistance needs to be given in this area and I hope the Committee will address itself to the particular problems faced by these young people at school and by the men and women living in the community to see what assistance can be given to allow them to make an adaption to the community. 
One of the other points listed in the tasks is to undertake and promote investigations and to provide informed views on appropriate methods. This, perhaps, is another area in which Europeans who have worked in the Territory for some years can assist. They have the professional expertise and a pool of talent that can be drawn upon. Perhaps they can answer the question of how', not 'what', so that when the Committee comes up with a proposition of what it wants done it can go to the group and say: 'This is what we want done. Can you help us do it?' I remind the Minister of the saying: 'The best laid schemes o' mice and men gang aft a-gley'. Nothing will happen unless support is given. The quantum of support given by the Minister and his Government will be the test of the Government's commitment. The Aboriginal people will know then just how dinkum the Government is by the kind of assistance it gives to the Committee and then by the amount of support it gives to the recommendations of the Committee. We have mentioned already that actions are the measure, not plans. 
What type of support will be looked for? I suggest that initially support staff- good support staff- will be required. It is very pleasing to see that built into the Minister's statement was the comment that the Committee will be serviced by the Department. One trusts that the service and the support provided will be appropriate and sufficient and that the group will be allowed to travel and given whatever support it needs. Later on we are going to need staff and incentives for staff to travel and to work in the field. We are going to need staff training and that has already been referred to. We will also need facilities appropriate to the individual location and the type provided will vary from one place to another. We also need- and this is most important- support from all departments for whatever program is brought forward. It is most pleasing to see that the Committee will have responsibility to report back to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. Again, the quantum of recognition and the quantum of support given by those departments will be a test of the overall government commitment. 
The Committee is going to need money.  Senator Bonner  made the point in his speech that it is not the amount of money which is important but how it is spent. That is not too bad as a general principle but if there is very little money it does not matter how it is spent because it cannot achieve a great deal. There must surely be an absolute minimum below which one cannot go. That principle is true only to a degree and I hope that the Government will see the need to provide sufficient finance. The Committee will need understanding and sympathy when it is working. I do not think there is any doubt that mistakes will be made by the Committee and by the people working in the field but I trust that the Government will continue to support the Committee and will overlook its mistakes or give' some assistance and not provide too many restrictions. 
We have heard from the other side of the chamber many comments about the need for control, the need for restrictions, the need for restraint. Let us not be too harsh on the bookkeeping aspects of what the Committee is going to do. I trust that the Government will service the Committee, heed its recommendations and do something about them. I hope that it will build the recommendations into its overall policy. As I have tried to suggest, this Committee will impinge on many areas apart from the area of  education.  I hope that the Government will build on the foundations which have been made by Labor and erect a structure which will be a monument not only to government but to Parliament. I am convinced that Australia has an opportunity to lead the world in this vital and humanitarian field and I join with the Minister when he states: 
I hope these initiatives will foster education programs and activities which will assist Aboriginal people to live satisfying lives, sharing in and contributing to the total Australian society. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Is it a fact that caravans which were purchased as emergency housing after Cyclone Tracy are to be sold in lots of fifty? If it is a fact, does the Minister not agree that it will discriminate against the people of Darwin who may wish to purchase a single unit? Will the Minister agree to release sufficient caravans to meet local needs before offering the remainder to southern purchasers for transport out of the Territory? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) Has an environmental impact study been carried out by Magellan Petroleum Pty Ltd on the proposed establishment of an oil refinery near Alice Springs. 
If such a study has been made, will the Minister indicate whether or not it will be made available to the public. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by my Leader,  Senator Wriedt,  and in so doing support the principle of the Bill. I will confine my remarks to the Tertiary Education Commission Bill 1977.I feel that the justification in speaking to the Bill at this stage, towards the end of the debate when so much has been said, can only be that perhaps one can draw attention to the inadequacies of the Bill and suggest some remedies. The inadequacies have been noted and amendments will be introduced to deal with some of the inadequacies. We can perhaps comment on the philosophy underlying the Bill and either commend it or criticise it. We can make suggestions which might assist in implementing the legislation. We can provide material to assist future planning because surely this Bill, like any other, is seen as a step towards a later goal. We can draw attention to needs- needs in certain areas and needs in certain geographical regions. I intend to do a little of that in the time which has been allocated to me. I should like to speak firstly about the concept of the Commission itself. Honourable senators may recall that  Mr Whitlam,  in his policy speech in 1 972, said: 
A key channel of communication between Parliament and the people will be a number of expert commissions making regular reports and recommendations on new spending . . . These bodies will not merely be exercises in more efficient, more expert administration of public affairs, they will be an expression of our determination to keep the public informed and to keep the public involved in the public debate on the great national affairs and the great national decisions . . . 
So the concept behind this is that the Government will keep the people informed and the people, for their part, will advise the Government. By 'people' here we mean not only the people in the street, the clients- if one likes- of most of the departments, but also the experts who can be called in to assist them. In his paper  Labor's Achievements in Australian Education 1972-75,  Dr Anderson  made this comment: 
Labor,  Mr Whitlam  indicated, rejects 'the demeaning idea that the Government always knows best' and brings grassroots participation into decision-making. 
He went on to say: 
This notion of community involvement in policy formation was to become important to an extent that no political party could have foreseen in 1972, in areas such as Aboriginal affairs and urban and regional development as well as education. 
Certainly the commissions have many advantages. They can make increased information available to the public and this will have the effect that informed debate will be possible. I stress the word 'informed' in this sense. Debate will be possible within the community on matters of national interest but it will be informed. The commissions will involve the general public in educational planning and it is fairly obvious that the public is keen to be involved in this sort of debate. I refer again to  Dr Anderson's  paper in which it is stated: 
The Committee on Open University, for example, received a large number of submissions, ranging from single-page letters to substantial theses', from individuals, groups and organisations, and held discussions with many others. 
He commented also on the Kangan report and states:   the Kangan Committee on Technical and Further Education reports that 'ACOTAFE-received more than two hundred written submissions ranging from organisations actively and  currently  involved in technical and further education to individuals with a concern for but not necessarily any involvement with the field. They were of high quality and strongly influenced the Committee's conclusions and, subsequently, its recommendations'. 
It will be appreciated, of course, that commissions were not an innovation of the Whitlam Government. Perhaps one can say that the significant contribution that the Whitlam Government made in this area was the number and range of commissions that were set up. The only commission I can think of previously of the level of those set up by the Whitlam Government was the Tertiary Education in Australia Commission in 1964 which produced the Martin report. This was perhaps isolated in this area. I think that the other significant contribution of the Whitlam Government was that the process of consultation and advice of experts became a central and integral part of government procedure. It is a fact, of course, that government by commissions -as one might call it- poses a number of problems.  Dr Anderson  had this to say: 
Government by commission' raises a number of problems, not the least of which is the danger that in framing its recommendations each commission or committee will consider only the limited field of its interest or responsibility and fail to give adequate consideration to the Government's total responsibilities. 
Governments are always faced with the problem of distributing limited resources among different areas of social need in accordance with a scale of priorities and the constraints of the general economic situation. To what extent, therefore, should the education commissions take the general economic climate and the total responsibilities of the government into consideration when making their recommendations? This is not an academic question, but one of great practical importance.  Mr Beazley  has stated that 'the magnitude of triennial recommendations' of the education commissions 'shocked' the Government and were a major factor in its decision to delay the next triennium. The lack of co-ordination of recommendations and financial demands, the apparent 'massive competition between universities and colleges of advanced education for resources' and the failure of the commissions to give adequate consideration to the rapidly changing national economic climate when making their recommendations suggest that the usefulness of advisory bodies may be limited unless the commissions are able to adopt a wider perspective. 
Those comments, as I suggested earlier in my address, were made by  Dr Anderson  to the Australian College of Education Conference in May 1976. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said: 
The new Commission will play a significant role in shaping and influencing the future character of post-school education in Australia. 
The Minister is speaking here of the Tertiary Education Commission. One might pose the question: What son of future? Let us look, before we pose that question, at the present situation within Australia. Education certainly in its institutionalised forms as we know it in the schools, universities and so on, has developed a sort of longitudinal time mode. Each step is based on the past and each step is a preparation for the future. This will be at all levels whether primary, secondary or tertiary. Each step builds on the past. Each step is a preparation for the next grade. So each of those grades or stages have developed their curricula, and these have become highly sophisticated. 
Honourable senators will know that there is a special discipline of curriculum development, or whatever it happens to be called in the various universities. They have produced curricula to meet a particular stage but the curricula have very little relationship to other stages. They bear very little relationship to other contemporary social fields. There is no one educational planning authority. I quote here from an article by Allan Skertchly in the  Australian Educational Futures.  He says: 
No one educational or planning group has sought to plan education on a continuing basis through primary, secondary and tertiary years, let alone to continuously support the educational needs of diverse individuals in the life-long learning society. These deficiencies need to be rectified  . . Education should provide appropriate life-long learning experiences for all. 
We see then a need for an integrated approach right throughout our education system. National planning is something that has been spoken of before. Our present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  mentioned this some years ago, I support the proposition of nationally integrated planning. The Tertiary Education Commission, which is a combination of 3 bodies, should surely look at this matter and investigate the longitudinal and latitudinal approach. It might perhaps come back with the suggestion that we release our secondary schools from the bondage of preparation for universities. 
-Other sorts of preparation are vitally important. From the comments I hear from the other side I think it is recognised that some secondary schools do little more than this and as such are very ineffective. We must have alternative opportunities within the secondary schools. The secondary schools should not just prepare students for colleges of advanced education and universities. Perhaps the Commission will look at the secondary and primary schools and suggest that we might broaden the work which they are doing. I suggest that we might look for new goals and new approaches. I think we might suggest that the Commission sets up an organisational research team to identify community needs and individual needs. The team could then plan on a very broad base. 
Without pre-empting an inquiry of this sort or boring the Senate with my own personal views, perhaps we might look at what all students, not just those in primary or secondary schools, are looking for from the educative process, The first thing I suggest is that students need to learn to learn. They are acquiring the skills and techniques of the learning process. In addition to that they are needing to acquire the skills to support that learning. The second thing they must get from the process is preparation for change. We live in an age of change and will do so in the future. They will have to change perhaps in the jobs they have. A comment made years ago on the scene in the United States of America was that a person will change his occupation 6 times during his lifetime. We are developing that situation in Australia. There must be preparation for a change in the community itself. There must be a change in social relationships or a preparation for a change in social relationships. 
The third thing which I think students can look to in the educative process is the old adage from Chiron: 'Know thyself. The student needs to find himself at whatever level he is. He needs to establish his own identity. It is often spoken of within the Aboriginal context. We say how important it is for the Aboriginal to establish his identity. We forget that in our own European society each one of us must also learn to establish his identity. We need to understand our strengths and weaknesses. We need to learn, I suggest, not only to adapt but also to develop. This is something again which is a personal process which we must acquire. The last one which does not sound an academic sort of comment is that I think we need to gain the tools of satisfaction. By that I mean we will look throughout our social, professional and community life for some satisfaction for the time we spend in the world. We need tools to be able to do this. Obviously we will not acquire satisfaction or reward in our life unless we have certain abilities, skills and attitudes. 
Perhaps Clark Kerr has summed this up pretty well in his comment. He was talking about recommendations which his committee had made. He said:   . . But our main recommendation is that, in dynamic, open societies such as ours a more effective adjustment process should be sought by promoting more flexible opportunities for individuals to develop, adapt and change their skills, careers and social activities as changes on the economic and social scene take place. With new types of support by public and private institutions, and backed by a more dynamic and flexible educational system. 
Clark Kerr has summarised that area. It leads to a few comments, the first of which is that money is not necessarily the major factor. It certainly is a factor but not the only factor. I think we have to accept that a new approach is required. Research is needed to investigate this approach. We must have a recognition by our commissions and authorities that planning is needed and that perhaps a new sort of planning is needed. We must strive not to do better what is being done but to do something better. There is always the danger of accepting a narrow version of what we understand and developing highly sophisticated skills in that area, but we must look beyond this. There is a danger in accepting 'what is' at the present time. 
I think it would be appropriate to make one or two comments on technical and further education in the Northern Territory. The comment has been made in this place before that this area is the responsibility of our Federal Minister for Education. I have canvassed the problems of technical and further education in the Northern Territory. I have referred to the shortage of staff, the shortage of resources, the problems of the Aboriginal people and so on. I will not go over that ground again. I do not see that as the purpose of this debate. I would like to speak very briefly on 2 aspects in the Northern Territory, the Darwin Community College and the problems of providing educational services to outlying areas, looking only here at the technical and further education field. I remind the Senate that the Northern Territory has an additional problem of cultural differences in some of the people who will be serviced by that education system. 
I will say a few words on the Darwin Community College. The concept of the College originally was unique and thrilling. I think those 2 words apply to the situation in the Territory. I am talking here of the concept of the original planners. Certain problems do exist at the moment. I remind honourable senators that it was suggested that the College would meet the needs of university and college of advanced education students in the Territory by giving some assistance with tutorials and lectures and working towards the possibility of providing full courses later on. The College was to provide professional development for those people who were working in the Northern Territory particularly related to the problems of the Northern Territory; in other words, an extension of their professional life. It was to provide training for people to work in the Northern Territory with the peculiar problems that faced the teachers, health workers, social workers, those working in agricultural areas and others. It was to look at the apprenticeship and trade needs of the young people of the Northern Territory. It was to provide courses for Aboriginal people, a variety of courses, short and long, to meet their needs as a developing group. It was to provide further education or adult education as we called it in those days, what we perhaps think of as cultural education, social education, recreational education and all those types of education we used to loosely think of as adult education. In addition, it was to provide enrichment courses for children- perhaps ballet, art, craft, music and so on. One can see why this was called an exciting concept. 
I suggest to the Minister for transfer to the Commission that we might see the concept, if not the present situation, as the model for what might be developed in other areas. I look to the future to see the Darwin Community College extending the service it offers to the people of the north. I see no reason why we cannot have the old Colombo Plan idea with students coming from our northern neighbours down to study in Darwin to look at tropical medicine, tropical agriculture and so on. I must mention, of course, the annexe which is operating at present in Alice Springs. One can see that as a development. Annexes could be established in other major centres. The Minister will know that Professor Anderson and his team have looked at the needs of post-secondary education in the Northern Territory at the request of the College. Although that report is not yet available for us to discuss, I am sure that it will be a most valuable document, knowing the calibre of the people who worked on it and the careful scrutiny they gave to the needs in the Northern Territory. I commend the report when it is available, not only to public debate but also to the consideration of the Commission. 
The other broad area to which I wish to refer is that of providing educational services to outlying regions. Again, I am speaking of post-school educational services. It is fair to say that there is a need for a novel or innovative approach. I mentioned earlier that there are cultural differences in the people who live out in the outlying areas. I have mentioned before in this place that Aboriginals have a need, as others have, to see what the object of education is at the end of it. We must relate any work that is done to the area which is being served. The people need to see that education will promote employment. Therefore, we must see that there is employment there for them to work towards. Aboriginals do not like to leave home so we must take education to them. We must plan courses in consultation with the people living and working on the settlements to meet the needs of the Aboriginal people. I have suggested before in this place that we might send the lecturers, teachers and instructors around to the settlements to do the work there, rather than ask the Aboriginal people to come into town. With the community involvement concept with which I know the Government agrees we would involve the local people, not only in the planning of courses initially but also in supervising those courses, providing support education and, through the schools, providing preparation for those courses which might be run. 
I shall briefly sum up my remarks. I commend the Commission approach. It was something which was developed by the Labor Government. It has a significant contribution to make to the Australian educational scene. It will involve the public not only in the discussion of what the Government puts forward but also in putting forward its own recommendations. We should certainly make use of the contributions of experts and advisers. I trust that the Government will use the material which comes from these expertsnot simply put it away in a quiet corner but consider it as it comes forward. I suggest that the Minister should look forward to the future to see the need for national planning and for a new role for the primary and secondary schools and, repeating the phrase I used earlier, to release secondary schools from the bondage of preparing students only for colleges of advanced education and universities. He should have a close look at what our educative process should be trying to do. In this context I trust that the Minister and his Department will look at the ARNOLD system which is no doubt known to the Secretary of the Department and the other advisers who are present. 
I suggest that we do something better and not just do better some of the things we are doing at present. We might take the Darwin Community College, because it is new, improve it and make sure that it will become a model for one area. We might adopt a novel approach to providing educational services to outlying areas and not the perhaps stero-type approach we use at present. I support the amendment and commend the concept of the Bill. 

 Senator CARRICK (New South Wales)Minister for Education (4.20)-in reply- Yesterday and today the Senate has been debating cognately 2 Bills. The first is a minor but important Bill, the Commonwealth Teaching Service Amendment Bill 1977. The second, a Bill of very considerable significance for the future, is the Tertiary Education Commission Bill 1977. I thank all honourable senators who participated in the debate. I think it is very heartening to see the extent of participation in debates on education and the growing bipartisanship in this field. This I think is of great importance. The Commonwealth Teaching Service Amendment Bill is largely a machinery Bill. As was stated in the second reading speech its object is to make special long service leave provisions for New South Wales technical teachers who became members of the Commonwealth Teaching Service between 31 December 1976 and 1 April 1977. It follows similar lines to former legislation and it has the support of the whole Senate. 
The Tertiary Education Commission Bill is, as I have said, a measure which will provide machinery which will have a significant impact on shaping education in Australia, specifically in the post-school area in the decades ahead. It is important to understand the significant points of the Bill. The Opposition has dwelt largely upon one difference, that is the inclusion of technical and further education. That is a significant difference in the Bill from the Bill introduced by the Whitlam Government in 1975 which, of course, was not passed through the Parliament. That Bill in itself dealt with 2 commissions, the Universities Commission and the Commission on Advanced Education. It ignored technical and further education. It sought to establish one integrated commission, a tertiary education commission, amalgamating the 2 commissions and leaving no second tier of councils under the commission. This Bill is distinctively different. It does a number of important things which should be grasped. As the Senate has recognised it brings into the field of co-ordination and rationalisation a third sector of education, technical and further education, and gives to it equality of opportunity and equality of status along with universities and colleges. 
I repeat that enshrined in this Bill is a highly significant development, a promotion of technical and further education into the tertiary education field and its promotion as an equal partner. Secondly, the Bill itself does not provide an amalgamation. It recognises the fundamental point that it is desirable to promote and encourage the discrete and distinctive qualities of individual types of institutions. Universities should be nurtured and encouraged to become better and better, consistent with the quality that one has in mind for universities, specifically the pursuit of pure learning in itself, the pursuit of research, both pure and applied and, of course, some training in professionalism. But in themselves they should enshrine the pursuit of knowledge of the highest possible quality. It is important that there should be an institution- in this case the Universities Council- the role of which specifically is to look towards universities, to look towards their qualities, to look towards the individual institutions, and to gather a stream of knowledge and information, a stream of research, which can be brought together by way of report into a blueprint for universities for the year and years ahead. It is important for the working of this mechanism that there should be a subjectivity of direction towards universities, in this case as I have illustrated. 
It is equally important that there should be a body, an instrument to look towards the colleges of advanced education and to have a vested interest in developing those colleges into the best colleges that it can devise; not into colleges that would hope to be universities; not into colleges that would hope to be technical colleges, but colleges which are performing the concept and philosophy of a tertiary college and moving forward into higher and higher quality. That is the role which we envisage for the Advanced Education Council. Equally importantly, there should be a body looking towards the subjective viewpoint of technical and further education, collecting its information and its recommendations and bringing them forward. 
This framework, not being an amalgamation, is a two-tired system- in the first place a Tertiary Education Commission co-ordinating, rationalising, a visionary body in itself, a body which will look forward to the future; look forward to the dreams and hopes of men and women; look forward to the things of the heart, the soul and the mind in the quality of education and its fulfilment; look forward to vocational orientation, and in doing so recognise a changing world; recognise the need for changing institutions, recognise that in a world of limited resources there is a need for a balance, a rationalising or a co-ordinating. 
We have set up a body of some 9 people- four people full-time with specialist knowledge, the chairmen of the 3 councils and the overall chair.man and offsetting or leavening in this regard some 5 people from the community at large to bring the community viewpoint to the specialist viewpoint. This will be a great adventure in education. It represents a recognition that the clients ought to be there, that education is not the captive of institutions or academics but that it is an instrument for the people, for the individuals, and as such this advice brings the clients into major association with the specialists. 
The Tertiary Education Commission will be looking towards the Williams Committee on education and training which is now in full progress of its research. It will be noting the kind of investigations and researches which the Williams Committee is doing, will be very responsive to studying the report of that Committee in a year or more, and will in itself then pick up the role of the future adventure; pick up the role not of simply entrenching the status quo but of looking towards the changes for the future. Within that Commission and under it will be 3 councils for universities, colleges and technical colleges. This is a fundamental difference from the past. I think and hope and believe it is of fundamental importance. This preserves the distinctive characteristics but will go further. The Bill provides that the councils shall do virtually the same work that the Commissions do today, that is, statutory bodies with freedom to seek and to find, to investigate, to dream, to report beyond the guidelines and the confines of the Government of the day but also equally within those confines. 
Most importantly, the Bill provides that the reports of the councils as given to the Commission shall be public knowledge. They shall be made public in this Parliament, to the people and to the government of the day. The reports of the councils and of the Commission will become public and the public will be able to make its judgment, just as the government of the day and the advisers of the government of the day will make their judgment as to where the balance of judgment should lie, and be able to determine whether the councils were right in this or that, to determine on what value judgment the Commission relied and to determine whether the government of the day was right or wrong in making some modifications. So here again we really have an adventure. 
Perhaps it is a rather brave government that seeks to advocate by legislation the production of a series of reports which in certain circumstances could be in conflict. It is the very ability to produce the subjective views, on the one hand, and the rationalised views on the other which, if carried by able people to the true extent, will produce the strength or otherwise of this institution. This marks it down in a very special way indeed. 
I have dealt with a number of points made. For example,  Senator Button  asked the relationship of the Williams Committee to the Tertiary Education Commission. I see the Tertiary Education Commission working closely with it but carrying on in future in the wide sense. I have said these things not simply to repeat or to elaborate on my second reading speech but because the debate took largely a specialist line with regard to technical and further education. There is an amendment before the Senate. The Government will not support it. The Government will reject the amendment primarily because the amendment is not necessarily in its general terms. I will make another comment in a moment or two about the Kangan Committee.  Senator Wriedt  acknowledged in his speech yesterday the basic reason there is no necessity for this amendment. At page 809 of  Hansard  he is reported as having said: 
However, now that we have this Bill before us, I indicate that the Opposition will not oppose the concept of including the technical sector in this new Tertiary Education Commission because we feel that there have been sufficient safeguards written into the legislation to ensure that the technical sector is not disadvantaged. 
There, without qualification, the Opposition has recognised the truth of the matter, that is that sufficient safeguards, to use  Senator Wriedt  's words, have been written into the legislation to ensure that the technical sector is not disadvantaged. So along with the assurances of the Government in my second reading speech, of which I remind the Senate, and  Senator Wriedt  's acknowledgement, it is unnecessary to write into this legislation any further reassurances about technical and further education, I repeat that it has been made an equal co-partner. I repeat that so much is the Government concerned that technical and further education should be advanced that it has given it a very special place. I remind the Senate of these 4 sentences of my second reading speech. 
To exclude technical and further education from the coordinating mechanism would be to fail to appreciate the inevitable working interface between colleges of advanced education and institutions of technical and further education and the continuous need to rationalise functions between the two. It would ignore also the need to upgrade the role of technical and further education in the post-school sector. It is the Government's firm intention to devote special attention to technical and further education, which has been for too long the area of least consideration to governments in postschool education, particularly in the allocation of resources. The new Commission will have an important role in the development of these resources and of co-operative arrangements with the States for the support of technical and further education. 
More important than the actual legislation is the fact that governments of the day and of the future, as the Government of the immediate past did, will be using financial and other guidelines to invite the Commission and the councils to direct their primary inquiries, not to delimit totally their inquiries or reporting. The Commission and the councils will say: 'Within the financial purse limitations of the Commonwealth, there is an amount of money for the whole of the postschool education. Here, in our view, is the break-up. Here, in our view, are some suggestions of priorities'. Without qualification, the Commonwealth Government indicates that it will provide, in terms of guidelines, a directionalism towards a significant approach to technical and further education. 
The basic nature of the amendment is the inherent need to reinforce the specific purpose of technical and further education. The existing safeguards require no further reinforcement. The amendment refers to the Kangan report. It had many interesting and good qualities to it. It would be fundamentally against the procedures of parliaments to seek to enshrine in enduring legislation for the years and even the decades ahead some binding directionalism towards a report of the day, however meritorious. Therefore, the amendment is defective. The resources of the Commonwealth will be directed in the best way to technical and further education. However special and however important one sector is, it would be wrong if, in our desire to recognise the failure we as a people and as parliaments have made to upgrade technical and further education, we allowed the passionate swing of the pendulum to disregard or to give insufficient regard to the other great institutions- universities and colleges. It is fundamentally wrong to seek these passionate swings. These things have bedevilled education in its seeking after fashions and passions. This is a balanced Bill. It balances the 3 kinds of institutions. It seeks to provide a co-ordinated and rationalised approach. 

 Senator Wriedt felt that there must be insecurities or threats to the situation, particularly to technical and further education, in the Government's federalist policies. I think I am right in suggesting that he was insinuating that the Commonwealth Government's aim was to abdicate from paths of education and to pass the buck, as it were, financially or otherwise to the States. I think that is a reasonable paraphrase.  Senator Wriedt  must have overlooked the letter of the Prime Minister to the Premiers which has been in his possession and is known to him. He must have overlooked the statements at the Premiers Conference. He is very receptive to statements made at the Premiers Conference that appeal to him. May I remind him that the Prime 
Minister's letter, which I shall seek again to have incorporated in  Hansard,  made some fundamental statements. One statement was that the Commonwealth would discuss with the States on a number of premises. Incidentally it talked about the need to upgrade technical and further education. It stated: 
We are interested in exploring jointly with States possible avenues for rationalisation and better co-ordination, in particular in administration and finance, across the whole education function but we fully appreciate the complexities that any such exercise entails. We certainly do not envisage any immediate changes to the present arrangements. Neither is there any attempt by the Commonwealth to retreat from its present position in which education is regarded as an area of substantial commitment, nor to reduce its overall financial contribution. 
In other words, the total answer to  Senator Wriedt  lies in the written commitment contained in a letter to the Premiers in which the Commonwealth said it will not reduce its financial commitment; it wanted to have discussions with the States to rationalise. I seek leave to have the letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
I rise to support the motion moved by my colleague,  Senator Gietzelt.  My contribution will be brief and simple. Previous speakers have drawn attention to their personal contact with Timor. Perhaps I can do the same by way of introduction. I first visited Timor in 1 965. Like other speakers I was impressed by the friendliness of the people who live in that wonderful country. The travels which I made around the place showed me the reason for the justifiable pride the people have in their country. Like others I visited places connected with Australian servicemen. I went to the memorial pool and to other places. I appreciated the feeling of the guides who took me to those places when they made comments such as: 'We helped you, you will help us'. Without saying it an implied debt existed. 
On this and subsequent occasions when I visited Timor I met many more friends and, like others, sent things over to them. I had a later opportunity to make a brief study of the educational system of Timor. As a result of that I sent education material over to the group of friends I was making in Timor. When the disasters happened in 1975, like many more people in Darwin, I tried to help those who were worried about their relatives in Timor. I had daily contact with the Department of Foreign Affairs and was disturbed at that time, as I have been since, at the attitude of that Department. Either it did not know what was going on or it was not prepared to tell us. We knew more in Darwin than the Department of Foreign Affairs appeared to know in Canberra. But still, that is not the point. 
When the refugees arrived I was in the fortunate position of being able to set up a school for them. Within 2 weeks, as I might have mentioned previously in this place, we were able to have a school operating with Timorese, Portuguese and Chinese teachers and books in the Portuguese and Chinese languages. I might mention the help that was given then by the Red Cross which at that time had access to Timor and the help given by others who were able to fly in and out of Timor. We had an accelerated course for older students and adults and were able to provide some sort of assistance to them when they arrived in the Territory. Since that time, like many others, I have been involved with the refugees who have come to Darwin. I have assisted some of them with the problems they brought with them. I shall refer to the present situation in Darwin. That is the only situation on which I can comment. I think we can identify 3 groups related to the Timor situation existing in Darwin at present. I mean no discourtesy by categorising them in this way. I am sure they will take no offence. The first group is the Chinese Timorese group, a large group comprised of Chinese people who either were born in Timor or lived there. The second group I might call the Portuguese Timorese, those people of Portuguese extraction, of mixed marriages. The third group is an indigenous Timorese group. It is a very small group at present since most have moved away from Darwin. As I have indicated, the Chinese group is the largest group operating in Darwin at present. It has a very active committee working to try to bring their relatives out from Timor. 
I shall not mention names but I should like to commend the efforts of the people who are working in this area. They are finding jobs and accommodation for their relatives. They are getting as many as they can out of Timor. They make the claim that they ask little of the Government. During the parliamentary recess I met with these groups once again and put a number of questions to them. I feel that in this debate we need the expressions of views of the people who are most involved. They are the people who have relatives in Timor. I put the questions to them either individually or at small meetings and comparatively large meetings of 80 to 100 people. The first question concerned the investigation which is proposed in the motion we are discussing tonight. I explained to them the motion and the amendment moved to it. They seemed to understand the motion but could not see any reason for the amendment. I certainly did not bother to explain the intricacies of that. 
What was the answer given by these 3 groups to the question about the need for an investigation? If any one is concerned, if anyone ought to be making a decision, it is the people who are living in Darwin and in the rest of Australia who have relatives in Timor. It was quite clear that all the groups saw a need for an investigation of the situation in Timor along the lines we proposed in the motion. The only difference was that some groups saw the investigation taking place a little later than the others. I might go through each one in turn and indicate what the reaction was. The Chinese group was particularly concerned about the attitudes and policies of the Australian governments-both of them. They were particularly concerned about the fate of the journalists. They were particularly concerned about the situation that existed in those few short weeks at the end of 1975. They thought that we should have an investigation at a later time, after their relatives have been brought out. They stressed to me very strongly the concept of the extended family which is so important to the Chinese people. They expressed the view that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  surely could not understand what the Chinese meant by family when he had made a limitation to what we understand perhaps in Australia as the nuclear family. 
It has been estimated that between 450 and 1000 people might want to come to Darwin under the nuclear family situation. That gives some indication of the numbers involved when we look at the rest of Australia. The Portuguese Timorese, as I have called them, said that we must have an investigation now. They said that they must know what is going on in Timor. The Timorese, the other group, said that we must have a full investigation now. They said that they must know what is going on in Timor. It was quite clear from all groups that there must be an investigation. These are the people, of course, who will suffer if anything happens to their relatives in Timor. The second question concerned the signing of the letter which had been sent out from the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. For the benefit of honourable senators I shall read the letter which was sent from the Department to all the people who were nominating their relatives to come to Australia. It stated: 
I am writing to you in connection with your nomination for the admission to Australia of your relatives/friends resident in East Timor. 
Before any Australian Immigration action can proceed in East Timor, it will be necessary for you to give your written agreement, in the form shown below, to details of your nominees being given to the Indonesian authorities. 
Should it be possible to finalise arrangements for a visit by an Australian Immigration Team to East Timor, the Indonesian authorities will arrange for the location of your nominees and their attendance at the Immigration Processing Centre in Dili. 
If you are prepared to give this authority please sign the attachment below and return it to this Office immediately. 
The letter was signed by the Regional Director. The form that the group was asked to sign was addressed to the Regional Director. It stated: 
I agree that the names and addresses of my nominees may be provided to the Indonesian authorities so that they may be located and assembled for Australian immigration processing in East Timor. 
The reaction to that was fairly dramatic. All people expressed fear of Indonesia. They said: 
We do not want to have to send that sort of document over'. They feared for the safety of those who might not be allowed out once the form had been signed and sent over. One of them went so far as to suggest that we limit the signing of the form to relate to only those who would be assured of being accepted for immigration. We all know that that would be impossible, given the regulation. There was a very strong fear that the Indonesians would take action against those people who were nominated in the forms because they had associations with people in Australia. They suggested that if the Australian team went over it might take these letters and assist the Indonesians in locating their relatives. They suggested that there might be more chance of finding them alive. I am simply repeating what was said to me by the people in Darwin. They suggested that these nominations might be processed with the Australians watching very closely. 
Another point came out of this fear of Indonesia. One of the gentlemen said to me: Why does Australia not show strength? Do you not understand our culture?' I thought of the story that  Senator Mcintosh  tells of Panngabean and his comment about strength being the very important quality in the Indonesian culture. The third question I put to these people was whether they would like to see an independent state of Timor within the total Indonesian empire, as  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack called it earlier. This was totally rejected by all. I do not think that we were surprised about that. There was particularly strong opposition from the Portuguese Timorese and the Timorese. The Chinese were not particularly interested but they said that they did not think it was a good idea. The next question I asked was perhaps the most important. I asked whether there were any particular worries that they had living in Australia. The first worry was that of health. They said that the radio had reported that cholera and mumps were rife in East Timor and that no medicines were available. People who had money or had relatives in Indonesia who had money were able to send medicines across. The medicines that were supposed to be part of the Australian aid referred to by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  in his speech had not been heard of. People had never seen any aid in the form of medicines. 
Of course, the safety of relatives was of paramount importance to them. I have already mentioned the fear of Indonesia that so many of them had. This was understandable. I wish I had some of the skills of the people who have spoken already in this debate and others who have not entered it. I can paint a picture for honourable senators of one interview I had when I met with a group of Portuguese Timorese, a group of 7 men aged perhaps from 28 years to 50 years, all of whom were immersed in their national cause. A young man fluent in the language was able to translate what was coming over the radio. Others were grasping for words but they were, nevertheless, dignified. An older man told me with some pride that he had been trained as a parachutist by the Australians. I felt a little twinge of conscience because that indicated that he had been selected among those who had helped the Australians when they were in Timor. 
We were listening to Radio Maubere. There was some music and the interpreter told me that it was good Timorese music. There were smiles on the faces of people in the group. The first message that came over was a call for the United States team to ask to visit Fretilin leaders and the reaction around that group of 7 people was that that was a good idea; let the Americans talk to the Fretilin leaders and find out what was going on. The second message was that 3 Fretilin leaders in the area where the congressional team was going to visit had been shot that day. There was a shock and a sense of quiet anger because some of the group had known these leaders personally. A third message came over that the Indonesians were not respecting the Timorese women. Again there was silence and a young man leaned across to me and said: 'Respect of women is very important in Timor'. There was silence because the older man had 2 teenage daughters still in Timor. 
One can understand the frustration of that group of people and the others, the feeling of impotence with friends dying and daughters being raped and there was nothing one could do about it. I suggest that honourable senators put themselves in that position for a moment and wonder how they would feel. How would they feel in the situation of those men standing there listening to the radio and getting that terrible information? And, of course, following this automatically, was their lack of communication. Those people said: 'We cannot contact the people; we cannot get information; we cannot find out what our relatives and friends are doing'. This group was extremely critical of the Australian Government for taking away from them the transmitter that would have given them contact with their people. I can fully understand why they were critical. If honourable senators think about it for a moment they will feel a little hurt too. They will find it difficult to understand why regulations can override humanity in a case such as this. 
Of course, these people are doing something about it. A transmitter is to be set up and, as honourable senators may have noticed in today's Press, a petition has been circulated around Australia. It might be as well if I read that petition into  Hansard.  It states: 
We the undersigned citizens from all walks of life support the establishment of a radio transmitter receiver in Darwin shortly to allow 2-way contact between Australia and East Timor to- 
Allow contact with East Timor Red Cross to discover the humanitarian needs of the East Timorese people in Fretilin controlled areas. 
Allow East Timorese refugees here and in Portugal to exchange messages with relatives and friends in Fretilin controlled areas, and 
Allow journalists to interview Fretilin leaders so that their views can be put before the world. 
We regret that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission has refused  to allow contact  with Fretilin controlled areas of East Timor while re-establishing telegraphic links with Indonesian-controlled areas. We call on all Australians to give full moral and financial support to the Darwin public radio transmitter receiver. 
It does not seem much to ask. Already 300 people in Darwin have signed that petition and many more are signing it around Australia. Those people who were in the war will remember the anguish of not knowing- of fearing the worst and hoping for the best but not knowing what was going on. 
The Chinese group had another worry. They were concerned at the loss of human rights of their people who are in Timor. The loss of property, built up over the years, was only secondary. More importantly though, they were concerned at the loss of dignity. This is so important to the Chinese people. 
The other worry that came up was the false impression being created for the benefit of the visiting United States team. I think honourable senators might recall that this concept was supported by the United States team when it said that its members were going on a guided tour. A statement was issued on 16 April this year by the Timorese people in Darwin and I will read one extract from it. It stated: 
We know that Indonesian troops were dressing in civilian clothes during the American Congress members' visit to Dili. All the war materials were hidden. We heard this on Radio Maubere 
This statement was supported by a report in the  Age  today which stated in part: 
Another confidential intelligence message has described what Indonesia did to present visiting American congressmen with a favourable picture of Timor. 
The Indonesians took steps to ensure that people to be interviewed by the congressional committee were sounded out in advance by Indonesian officials. 
In the case of at least one Timor community leader, the Indonesians were not satisfied that his evidence would be satisfactory and arranged that he not appear before the committee. 
The Indonesians also ordered the removal of the more obvious signs of their military presence from areas the committee was to visit. 
The final comment from the group in Darwin was this: 
If Australia and Indonesia were sincere they should let International Red Cross into East Timor immediately, according to the Geneva Convention and the United Nations. 
The last concern which I had was that the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has adopted the rather unusual practice of saying to people who are nominating refugees to come out, firstly, 'Are you a Fretilin supporter?', and secondly, 'Is the person you wish to bring out a Fretilin supporter?'. I take exception to this action. It seems hardly appropriate for a department to ask these questions, particularly when we are looking at a refugee situation. 
Before voting on this motion I would ask honourable senators in this place to try to put themselves in the position of the refugees in Darwin at this time. For some it would be hard to imagine, but those honourable senators on both sides of the chamber with war experience- there are in this place many with very distinguished records- will think back to those times of privation. Perhaps those honourable senators who have not had this sort of experience, those who were spared it, might talk with those who have had it. Honourable senators might recall feelings of being separated, might consider how it feels to have their families in enemy occupied territory, and sense the anguish which these people might have. I ask honourable senators to put aside the politically motivated arguments that we have heard, the spurious arguments like the whole matter being a case of  Senator Gietzelt  having a go at Whitlam, as somebody put it. Put aside the situation of communists hiding under the bed. The issue is far too important for that. That is the sort of debating club exercise we can do without. Before honourable senators vote on this motion I ask them to look at the humanitarian issues involved. Think of the debt that we owe our Timorese ex-comrades, and I use the word 'comrades' in the best sense of the word. To paraphrase that verse we all know so well: At the going down of the sun and in the morning will we remember them? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Will the Minister indicate whether consideration is being given to transferring responsibility for the Northern Territory Apprentices Board to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
If consideration is being given, will the Minister indicate when the transfer might be effected. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Was the Director-General of Social Security reported as saying that payments to victims of Cyclone Tracy, made under the guidelines provided by Labor's National Compensation Bil], are to cease. 
Will the Minister provide details of payments made, indicate the savings made by the cessation of these payments and the introduction of payments under other schemes. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Will tenders be called in March for the construction of the Dripstone High School and will construction commence in July, as previously indicated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Was a petition calling for the immediate supply of a two-way radio system to safeguard the lives of those persons employed in the Repairs and Maintenance Section of the electricity supply undertaking presented to the Minister on 20 January 1977 while he was in Darwin. 
When will the petition be presented in the House of Representatives as was promised by the Minister. 
What plans does the Government have to instal this equipment which is standard issue in State electricity undertakings. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. He will be aware that the Commonwealth Employment Service in Darwin has set up an Operation Employment scheme to run for 6 weeks. It has been running now for  4  weeks and has proved successful in finding employment for some of the many unemployed in Darwin. In view of the success of the scheme, will the Minister consider extending the period of operation of the scheme beyond the proposed 6 weeks? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory indicate when the sale of government homes scheme will be resumed in Darwin? Will the Minister also indicate whether the conditions associated with the scheme will be the same as those which pertained previously? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that funds for the Alice Springs Emergency Home Help Association have been reduced from $4,500 to $2,500. 
) Has the Association, at present, only sufficient funds to remain operative till May. 
Will the Minister take positive action to ensure that this most worthwhile organisation is granted sufficient funds to enable it to carry on its good work. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territary, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
Will the Minister table the report into the organisation and role of the Northern Territory Primary Producers Board, which was completed last year. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who may be aware that there has been a good deal of correspondence between the Professional Radio and Electronics Institute and government concerning staff shortages in the Radio Frequecy Management Division of the Postal and Telecommunications Department. Will the Minister indicate what action is proposed to alleviate the situation, particularly in the Darwin region, where the regulatory and licensing section is unable to carry out its functions? Will the Minister say also whether he will use his good offices to arrange a meeting between the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and the Institute? The Minister will be interested to know that the Institute has a suggestion that will allow the services to be provided at no additional expenditure; in fact, it will provide additional revenue. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer the Minister to the decision by  Mr Justice  Forster in the Northern Territory Supreme Court to uphold the appeals by 3 men against a conviction of attempting to export illegally firearms and medical supplies to East Timor from Darwin. In view of the determination of the Prime Minister in 1976 to have the case prosecuted, does the Government intend to appeal against  Mr Justice  Forster 's decision? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Is it a fact that  Mr Green,  the Secretary of the Postal and Telecommunications Department, carried out an inspection of the Radio Australia base situated on Cox Peninsula in the week commencing 16 May ? If this is a fact, will the Minister please advise: Firstly, the purpose of this inspection; secondly, whether the Government proposes to repair the facilities on the base which have been out of action since Cyclone Tracy; and, thirdly, whether the Government now proposes to install the 2 radio transmitters which have been stored in Adelaide since before the cyclone? I remind the Minister that the installation of these transmitters would bring Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcasts to all sections of the Top End which are now denied this service. I have previously stressed the value of this service not only for educational purposes and entertainment but also as part of an early warning system in case of cyclones. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister ordered a Departmental inquiry into allegations made by a group of truck owners operating between Brisbane and Darwin against freight trucking contractors. If so, when does the Minister expect to receive the report on the inquiry and will he make it available to the truck owners. 
What action does the Minister intend to take if the report suggests that certain of the practices adopted by the contractors infringe the law. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Will the Minister give details of when new in-patient charges for people on third party insurance claims, workers' compensation, and people from overseas, will be implemented in hospitals throughout the Northern Territory. 
Will people in these categories be able to claim on Medibank; if so, will the re-imbursement payments be the same as for other categories of patients. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
Were residents of the Northern Territory entitled to vote in referenda between 1901-191 1. If so, what change in their constitutional status has made it inappropriate for them to vote in subsequent, or future referenda. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 31 March 1977: 
Why has a report into the Northern Territory's transpont system, carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics last year not yet been made public. 
Will the Report be tabled in the Parliament, if so when. 
-On behalf of my colleague,  Senator Ryan,  I present the following petition from 56 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the 1976-77 Budget allocation of $73.3m for child care amounts to less than $23 per child per year which is totally inadequate. 
That in 39.4 per cent of married couple families, both parents work and of these 59 per cent have dependent children. 
That 38.6 per cent of female heads of families work and of these 64 per cent have dependent children. 
That present government childcare programs are heavily biassed in favour of pre-school programs, 70 per cent of the funds being destined for pre-schools which only provide part-time services for children and do not cater for the needs of working parents. 
That existing government childcare facilities, schools and other government buildings which could be used for childcare programs are underutilised. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that urgent consideration will be given to: 
an increase in funds for childcare services throughout Australia; 
an equitable distribution of funds to cover all the childcare needs of the community; 
the cessation of the wasteful usage of sessional preschool buildings, instead these buildings to be used also to cover the full range of childcare needs; 
d ) the wider utilisation of government buildings or parts thereof, e.g. schools, hospitals and government offices for appropriate childcare facilities. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
1 ) Is the Government aware of allegations made by  Mr J.  Dunn relating to East Timor. If so, do these allegations have substance in fact, having regard to the interviews with East Timorese refugees in Portugal broadcast on 24 March 1977. 
Is the Government considering obtaining public evidence from the refugees as to the deaths of 6 Australian journalists in East Timor. 
Will the Government interview the refugees relating to the alleged atrocities committed in East Timor. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that since the closure of the North Australian Railways and the announcement that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission will cease operations in December 1977, some concern is being felt about the future employment for former employees of both organisations. 
Does the Northern Territory Public Service Commissioner believe that the placement of employees in alternative positions is the responsibility of the Federal Government. IT so, is the Federal Government responsible for the protection of job continuity and conditions of those people made redundant by Government decisions in these 2 areas. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory indicate when the second report on the supply and distribution of electricity in the Northern Territory will be made public? Will the Minister indicate also whether the first report will be made available at the same time? The Minister will recall that an undertaking was given that the reports would be made public documents. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
What are the details of the Travelling Allowance paid to each member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly for the period 1 July 1976 to 3 1 December 1 976. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Is it a fact that after 30 June the present electricity supply in Daly Waters will be discontinued and alternative provision made only for the post office and police station? If this is a fact, what plans does the Government have to supply electricity to other residents of the town? What does the Government intend to do with the generators which are at present providing the electricity for the town? 
Finally, does the Government not have a responsibility to provide electricity for a town such as Daly Waters? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 3 1 March 1977: 
1 ) Will the Minister undertake to make the first report of the Northern Territory Electricity Inquiry available after the final report has been released. 
Will the Minister also make a ministerial statement on the contents of both Reports indicating proposed Government action following the release of the final report. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the quantum of debt of Northern Territory pastoralists to (a) finance companies, (b) the Government, and (c) the Primary Producers Board. 
) How much does this debt total, and what was the total debt for the financial years 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 29 March 1977: 
1 ) When will the contract be let for the construction of the Dripstone High School in Darwin. 
) When will construction be completed. 
What is the anticipated enrolment at the School. 
How many of the students enrolled will be transferring from (a) Darwin High School, and (b) Nightcliff High School. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 March 1 977: 
What action is being taken to bring the manning strength of the Darwin District Radio Inspector's Office into line with other Australian offices. 
Has the Radio Inspector no staff and did he claim that the public is being inconvenienced as a result. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Earlier this year the Minister advised that a party from the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs would visit East Timor to investigate the circumstances of Timorese people who had made application to come to Australia. Will the Minister now indicate the composition of this Committee and the date on which the visit will be made? The Minister will be aware that many Timorese people in Australia are extremely anxious to arrange for their relatives to come to Australia as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 15 March 1976: 
1 ) Was there a 7 1 per cent failure rate for matriculation classes in Darwin secondary schools at the 1976 examinations. 
What steps are being taken to ascertain the reason for this excessively high failure rate and to ensure that matriculation students in 1 977 will not face the same bleak prospect. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that when the Casuarina Hospital is opened two floors of the building will be used as office accommodation by other government departments in Darwin? If this is a fact, will the Minister indicate whether such utilisation is a result of a shortage of hospital staff to work the floors, an acute shortage of office accommodation in Darwin or a shortage of patients? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 3 June 1977: 
What is the quantum of Travelling Allowance paid to each Member of the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory for the period 1 July 1976 to 31 December 1976? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. Will the Minister indicate whether there has been a change of attitude towards the acceptance of qualifications of teachers from overseas? I raise this matter because a case has been brought to my attention in which a teacher from Singapore with two years' training and over 12 years' experience has been rejected by the Commonwealth Teaching Service despite the fact that a teacher from the same area with identical training and similar experience was accepted last year. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory and concerns housing for public servants in the Northern Territory. I remind the Senate that the Government, through the Department of the Northern Territory, provides single and married accommodation for public servants, both male and female. I draw to the Minister's attention a case which has come to my notice where the breadwinner of the family is the wife, a school teacher. The family has made the decision that the husband will remain at home to care for the children and keep house while the wife works. The problem is that when the wife made application for the allocation of a government home she was refused on the ground that the male is regarded as the breadwinner, regardless of any decision made by the family. I ask the Minister whether he supports the attitude taken by his Department and whether his Government favours discrimination on the basis of sex in the allocation of government housing. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. In answer to a question earlier this year, the Minister indicated that a large scale research program into the problem of over-fishing of barramundi would be undertaken. Can the Minister indicate whether the program due to commence in mid- 1977 has been mounted and whether the Fisheries Section has been provided with sufficient boats to enable surveillance against poachers to be carried out? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The question refers to the proposed East Timorese family reunion operation. In answer to a quesiton last week the Minister indicated that negotiations were proceeding to allow a party of four officers from his Department and a medical officer to visit Timor some time later. A precise date could not be given. I now ask: Has the decision been taken not to send a number of Timorese people with the party, as was originally proposed and, if so, why was that decision taken? Will the Minister give consideration to arranging for a small party of members and senators to accompany the party at least for some of the time they plan to be in East Timor? In view of the reply given to senator Kilgariff, I should explain that I am seeking the Minister's attitude to such a proposal. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. The question may relate to her capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. During a recent visit to several pastoral properties in the Central Australian area I was told by Aboriginal people that the unemployment benefit was not available to them because the manager of the property did not believe such payments should be made. Discussion with several managers confirmed their comment. I appreciate that staff shortages make it very difficult for officers to visit properties and process claims, but I ask the Minister what machinery exists for the payment of benefits when the manager of the property is opposed to the concept. The Minister will understand that the station office serves as a post office and the station store is usually the only place where cheques can be cashed. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations advise the Senate whether any discussions have taken place between the Government and the Western Mining Corporation Ltd regarding impending retrenchments at Kambalda in Western Australia? Will the Minister confirm or deny the rumours that 300 to 400 people were to be retrenched? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Earlier this year in reply to a question the Minister indicated that consideration was being given to the payment of the unemployment benefit directly to Aboriginal village councils rather than to individuals. In answer to my previous question the Minister referred to this situation. Can she please advise the Senate whether a firm decision has been reached on this matter and, if so, whether payments have been made to councils? She might care to indicate to which councils the payments are being made. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 3 June 1977: 
1 ) Have discussions been held between the Prime Minister and the Chief Secretary of the Northern Territory concerning the further transfer of powers to the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory; if so, what areas of responsibility are to be transferred in the second stage, and what is the proposed timetable for the transfer. 
Will the Prime Minister give an assurance that the transfer will not increase the level of taxation to be borne by the people of the Territory. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact, that Aboriginal juvenile offenders from the central Australian region have been sent to an island off the coast of Arnhem Land as a form of punishment? J.t is also a fact that there are very few facilities on the island and no trained staff? If these are facts, will the Minister not agree that sending a young Aboriginal into what amounts to alien country under these conditions could not be classified as a sound rehabilitative program and that it could actually promote further ami-social behaviour? Will the Minister indicate whether banishment of this sort is to become part of Government policy for Aboriginal offenders? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. I understand that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has promised to create new positions for Aboriginals in government departments where the need for such positions can be demonstrated. If this is so, I ask the Minister what provision his Department is making for the employment of further Aboriginals. I am particularly concerned at the situation in the Aboriginal residential colleges where, at present, there is no establishment for teaching assistants, recreation assistants, houseparent assistants or counsellors. The Minister will be aware of the problems faced by Europeans in establishing rapport with the Aboriginal students attending the colleges. Both the parents of the children and the staff at the colleges would be interested to know whether the Department intends to employ Aboriginals to help staff the colleges and, if so, when this is likely to happen. 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerns assistance provided to Australian nationals by our consulate in Jakarta. I draw the Minister's attention to the recent case of an Australian male who was injured while riding a motor cycle in Denpasar. He was admitted to the local hospital but the treatment given to him was not adequate and he arrived in Australia with a gangrene infection in his leg. The leg has now been amputated. Would the Minister not agree that there are three disturbing features of the incident? The first is the inadequacy of the treatment given and about which I imagine we can do little despite the fact that Indonesian nationals in Australia receive the same high quality care as do Australians? Secondly, the young man's persistent requests, while in hospital, to contact the Australian consular authorities were denied by the hospital authorities. Thirdly, the consulate staff was not advised of the accident or, if it was, it took no action in a clear case of an Australian in distress. In view of the large numbers of Australians visiting Bali and other parts of Indonesia, will the Minister take urgent steps to ensure that the Indonesian authorities abide by the recognised international agreements for consular access to distressed expatriates or, if this cannot be achieved, warn Australians of the dangers they may face by visiting that country? 
I address my question to the Minister for Administrative Services. I ask: Is it a fact that the Australian Information Service office in Darwin is to close down on 3 1 December this year? If this is a fact, will the Minister indicate what arrangements will be made to cover the north of Western Australia, the Northern Territory and northern Queensland, the area at present covered by the Darwin office? If no arrangements have been made, will the Minister give consideration  to  transferring staff from one of the other offices in Australia so that information about this vital and developing area can continue to be given exposure through local and overseas publications? 
I rise to support my colleagues in condemning the Government's disregard of increasing unemployment. I do so for two reasons. The first is that I grew up in that other unemployment situation that was called the Depression. I saw the suffering that went on at that time. I saw the families which broke up. I witnessed the soup kitchens. I witnessed men fighting virtually for the opportunity to do a day's work. The picture is not one that is easy to forget. I appreciate of course that, thanks to the enlightened policies of governments which have come to office since that time, this is not likely to happen again. Nevertheless the disaster which faces us at present in its own way is just as bad as that which occurred in 1929-1939. 
My second reason for rising is the particular relevance to the Northern Territory of this debate. It will be known that the Northern Territory, as a unit, has the highest unemployment rate in Australia. The unemployment rate is 9.8 per cent. It may be interesting to look at the figures for the Northern Territory over the last three years. In August 1975, the total unemployment figure for the Territory was 1,722. In August 1976, it had risen to 2,150. In August 1 977, it has risen to 4,002. One shudders to think what the figure might be in August 1978, but it certainly will not be better. We recall what  Mr Street  said last year. The  Age  reported  Mr Street  as saying: 
Australia's level of unemployment is unlikely to change dramatically in the next 12 months . . . 
I ask honourable senators to note that the figures which I have cited do not include many of the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. There is a high rate of unemployment amongst the Aboriginal people. In some settlements the figure is as high as 86 per cent. These figures are not included in the ones we are using. The figures we are using do not include what people often call the hidden factor, the women who comprise 3.8 per cent of the adult work force, who do not normally apply to the Commonwealth Employment Service and therefore are not registered. The figures do not include- this is particularly relevant to the Northern Territory- those many people who will not apply for unemployment benefits because they do not meet the cosmetic standards of the Commonwealth Employment Service. They may have long hair or beards or they may dress in an unusual way. The figure which is given must be regarded as a minimum figure. We can look at it in another way by saying that there are 16 unemployed people for every vacancy in the Northern Territory at present. 
If we go on to break down these figures they become interesting. In Alice Springs in 1976, the number of unemployed was 690. In 1977, it was 1,160. In Katherine in 1976 289 people were unemployed. In 1977 the figure had risen to 375 people. In Darwin in 1976 1,088 people were unemployed and in 1977 the figure had risen to 2,409 people. That represents an increase in the unemployment rate of 1 12 per cent in 12 months.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you can appreciate my concern. My concern is not just with the figures themselves but with the people these figures represent. The obvious question to ask is: Why are the figures so high in the Northern Territory. It is clearly so for two very obvious reasons- Government action on the one hand and lack of Government action on the other hand. We have seen the Government's action in cutting back government expenditure in the Northern Territory, cutting back on the building, repair and maintenance of schools and other buildings, cutting back the road program, cutting back the railway program, the deferring of major programs- putting them in the Budget in the first place so that things looked good and then deferring them to next year by the late calling of tenders and other devices. 
The third area is the savage across-the-board cuts in the Public Service which I mentioned before. We all know that Darwin is a government town. If government expenditure is cut the economy slows down gradually. Small businesses, shops, garages and the professional people all feel the effect of the government cutbacks. The Government has been inactive in a number of areas. It has failed to stimulate the economy. In fact, it has allowed it to grind down when a small injection of finance, a small injection of government money, could have saved the situation. It has failed to implement any sort of regional employment scheme. It has failed to find markets for most of the products of the Northern Territory. I refer here particularly to beef. It has failed to create job opportunities within the community, especially within the Aboriginal communities. It has failed to recruit to its own departments cadets, apprentices and junior officers. What has the result been? It is what someone called some time ago the tragedy of unemployment. I will read this quotation: 
The tragedy of unemployment is the personal hardship involved; indeed, the complete destruction of a family's living standards as jobs become harder to get. 
Who made that comment? It was not a Labor Minister, not even a Labor member of Parliament. It was the present Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, who made that comment when speaking in 1974. It is interesting to note that he went on to say: 
I believe that principle to be valid - 
He was speaking here about the principle of the Myers report-  and governments need to make a concerted effort so that unemployment does not remain the complete and absolute disaster that it has so often been in the past. 
The principle involved in this is all the more valid when unemployment, as it is now, is the result of the government's mishandling of the Australian economy . . . 
They are the words of the present Prime Minister when he was speaking in 1974. The situation seems very similar at the present time. I would like to comment briefly on the Darwin scene before coming back to the Australia-wide scene. I mentioned earlier that the economy has ground to a halt. I have mentioned in the Senate the situation within the building trades in which, out of the 18 builders in Alice Springs, only four can find work. Services that ought to be provided for the community- health and dental services and through government offices, including social serviceshave all deteriorated in the last 12 months to two years. I want to make it clear at this stage that I am not knocking the Public Service. Many of the people working in the Public Service are dedicated officers. It is the system that has produced the situation that we find at the present time and about which I want to complain. We know that the size of the Public Service has been decreased by the so-called natural wastage. This means that as people get old or resign they move out. So we are left with a staff that is out of balance. Instead of people leaving the Service across the board, we have people doing work for which they are not trained. We have professional people doing work that support staff ought to do. In the private sector, because of the inverse multiplier I mentioned earlier, small businesses are closing down. We have had complaints from the master builders. So there is unemployment in both sectors. 
It is a fallacy to believe, as the Government appeared to believe earlier, that a cut in the Australian Public Service would mean a lift in the private sector. In the last 12 months on the wider Australian scene in manufacturing industry there has been a drop from 1.2 million employees to 1.15 million employees. In the construction industry there has been a drop from 375,000 employees to 361,000 employees. What are the consequences of the Government's actions and inactions? Firstly, there are the social consequences which the Government chooses to ignore and to its great discredit refuses to do any research into. It refuses to investigate the effect on crime and the effect on health-community health generally and the health of the individual. It refuses to investigate the effect on family relationships, the attitude of school leavers and so on. The Brotherhood of St Laurence which moved ahead of the Government here did some work in this area. I commend its report entitled Workers Without Jobs' to the Government. The Brotherhood found that unemployed people had feelings of boredom. What did this lead to? I do not think there is much doubt about what boredom in young people is very likely to lead to. The Brotherhood found frustration in people not being able to get work. It found mounting concern about their financial position. The research of the Brotherhood and other research clearly indicated an increasing death rate through suicide among young people who could not get employment. 
The Government's inactivity and activity result in a high correlation between unemployment and wife bashing, unemployment and child abuse and a range of mental and physical disorders. The Government does not appear to realise that high unemployment also means high unemployment benefits and high sickness benefits. Last year $600m was spent on the payment of unemployment and sickness benefits. There is no doubt that much more will be spent this year. Bill Hayden's Blind Freddie surely could see far more effective ways of using this money to remedy the situation. What has the Government done about this? It has set up training schemes. We have been told this. Those schemes have been set up in two areas of trainingAboriginal training and training in the wider community. A committee has been set up to look into Aboriginal training. We know that committees often are used to quieten the critics and that they often lead to inactivity. I do not think it is fair to say that this will happen with the present committee. The Minister for Education  Senator Carrick)  is committed to training and employment for Aboriginal people. Many of the members on that committee are dedicated and are trying to do a good job. But the answer does not lie in the training of the Aboriginal people. 
The solution to the problem lies in the creation of employment opportunities. 
Many of the people out of work at the present time are trained. They are just sitting down with nothing to do. We all know that Aboriginal people will learn quickly when the opportunities are there for them to get employment. The lack of employment is ruining the education program in the Northern Territory. The Aboriginal children are rejecting school because it does not lead anywhere. Once we were able to say to Aboriginal children: 'Come to school, get a good education and you will be able to leave school and get a good job'. This no longer applies. The children have rejected this idea and they have rejected school with it. In the wider community the Government has encouraged employers to take on apprentices but is not creating work for these people to do. Obviously there is little point in encouraging people to take on apprentices if there is no work to be done. It is no training to sweep the floor and it is developing pretty poor attitudes towards work if people are not learning and actually working. The Government itself is not taking on apprentices. We were told during the hearing of Senate Estimates Committee E that in 1975 the Department of Construction took on 213 apprentices. In 1977 it is taking on only 121 apprentices. This moved the  chairman  of the Committee to comment: 
It must appear ludicrous that we are instituting all sorts of training schemes to induce private employers to increase their trainees when the Government, by the contraction of its capital programs and this attitude to cadets and apprenticeships, is not straining every nerve to give training opportunities within its own Department of Construction. 
Obviously, as I said before, training is pointless without employment opportunities. At present many trained people are out of work. On a wide spectrum professional people, skilled people, unskilled people and others are out of work. They do not need training. They need employment opportunities. My concern is for the young people. As  Senator Wheeldon  said, they compose the largest group of unemployed people in the community-40 per cent of all unemployed. What prospects do those young people at school have when they leave school? What incentives do these younger children at school have to study hard? I am concerned about the long term effects of this attitude. 
It is clear that the Government has not accepted responsibility for the unemployment situation. It has tried to blame everyone but itself. The Government must sheet back the responsibility to itself. It must accept responsibility for the situation before us. It has allowed the chimera of single digit inflation to cloud its view. It has allowed its obsession with a smaller deficit to assume unnecessary proportions. It has slavishly followed ideological concepts of less government involvement and allowed that to override other considerations at the cost of loss of dignity and happiness and the cost of what  Mr Fraser  earlier called the tragedy of unemployment. Clearly the situation, like the economy, is out of control but something can still be done. I am suggesting to the Government that it might take the step of stimulating the economy by government expenditure. Again, I refer to a former Minister for Construction, who at a Senate Estimates Committee meeting, made this comment: 
It is appalling to me that the capital works program that the Commonwealth Department of Construction is undertaking is on a shrinking basis . . . 
He had many more telling comments to make to which I do not have time to refer. The Government must appreciate, so far as the Northern Territory is concerned, that the multiplier will have its effect and it will get business going again, such as the small businesses that the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  was worried about. The side effect of this will be confidence in the economy. People will open their purses and money will get moving. It is not enough to ask people to spend; some positive action is needed. The Government should re- assess its attitude to the Australian Public Service. It should remove this ridiculous staff ceiling concept and make it efficient and operative. 
The Government must recruit more apprentices and provide projects on which they can work. It must really, in effect, introduce an effective manpower policy. Basically, what we are saying is that the Government should reconsider its basic approach to this problem. It should put dignity and happiness before ideology, and it should restore confidence to the community as a whole, particularly the young people. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
My remarks will be brief, but I should like to make a few comments because of the implications for the Northern Territory. I have not had the advantage of  Senator Kilgariff,  who has been on the Public Works Committee, but I should like to join with him in drawing attention to the fact that there have been delays and the delays have been important for the people of the Northern Territory. The buildings and the roads that are being put down as a result of these investigations are an integral part of our system. The delays seem to occur in two major areas. The first is in the area of cutbacks in government expenditure. Works which have been recommended by the Public Works Committee have not gone ahead because finance was not available due to government expenditure cutbacks. The second reason I see is that there have been deferrals of some of the programs. Deferment is a technique that I have referred to previously in this place; a device for putting over to a later year some of the work which should be done in the current financial year. 
A third area relates to the fact that reports have not been acted on. I draw attention to one in particular of which I have some knowledge, the primary school at Katherine South. At present Katherine South classes meet in old tin sheds at the agricultural showgrounds and have done so for a couple of years. That is not the fault of the Public Works Committee, it is the fault of money not being available. There is a great need for a school at Katherine South. It will meet a need in the community in the Katherine area and will be an integral part of the education system. I draw attention to another delay in work on the Kormilda College. The Kormilda College extensions were due to be finished in April 1975, according to the report. My colleague and I attended the opening of those extensions some two weeks ago. They were two years late. The Palmerston road, of course, is a hardy perennial in the Public Works Committee and perhaps some decision can be made on it in the near future. It has been looked at a number of times over the past few years, and some sort of road, although not necessarily the Palmerston arterial, is necessary to the Territory. I hope to see decisions made in these areas. The only other comment I should like to make at this stage is to draw attention to the cutbacks in government expenditure which have caused many of these programs to be deferred, and to the deferrals themselves, which have caused the projects to be put back further. In conclusion, I should like to commend the Public Works Committee for the amount of time it spends in the Northern Territory and for the quality of the reports which it brings down. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In answer to a question from  Senator Baume  on 7 September this year, the Minister for Education said: 
. what the Schools Commission has said is that 90 per cent of all primary students attending non-government schools are in its category six which is the category for schools most seriously disadvantaged. So 90 per cent are very seriously disadvantaged. 
I now ask the Minister: In view of that statement, how does he justify providing no extra funds for level 6 schools but providing an extra $2m for levels 1 and 2 schools which are not seriously disadvantaged but are, in fact, already positively advantaged? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
Has there been considerable correspondence between the Professional Radio and Electronics Institute and the Government concerning staff shortages in the Radio Frequency Management Division of the Department of Post and Telecommunications; if so, will the Minister indicate what action is proposed to alleviate the situation, particularly in the Darwin region where the Regulatory and Licensing Section is unable to carry out its function. 
Will the Minister arrange a meeting between the Minister ibr Post and Telecommunications and the Institute in an endeavour to overcome their problems. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that a 24-hour emergency aerial medical ambulance service is not available on Groote Eylandt? If this is a fact, is it due to the shortage of flight crew to operate the service? Will the Minister undertake to investigate the situation and, if staff shortage is the problem, take action to recruit appropriate personnel so that there will not be a repetition of the recent situation in which an accident victim, kept on the island overnight, died through lack of appropriate treatment? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by my Leader in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt).  At this stage I think it important to remind honourable senators of the words of the amendment, which we have not heard for some time. The amendment states: 
At end of motion add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that the Budget: 
a ) will intensify and prolong the recession; 
b ) will increase unemployment: 
will have little impact on inflation: 
d ) will make regressive changes in the tax system; and 
will reduce living standards'. 
That is the amendment to which I rise to speak. Last year when I was speaking in the Budget debate I quoted an editorial in the  Northern Territory News.  At that time I indicated that the  Northern Territory News,  being a Murdoch newspaper, was not a newspaper which tended to criticise the Government- that is, the LiberalNational Country Party Government. I would like to read again the quotation which I used. I read it from the Senate  Hansard of  7 September 1976. The  Northern Territory News  said this: 
The Budget is a stand still Budget. It does nothing that will get the Territory moving ahead as a whole.  Mr Lynch  hopes that the business community will rise to the bait and start to invest again. It may be a worthwhile gamble - 
It certainly is not- but it won't work in the Territory. Private enterprise is simply not big enough to pick up the tab in the Northern Territory which relies on the government's hip pocket more than any other area in Australia. 
I think the comment I made at that time could be made again in my speech about the present 1977-78 Budget. There is no attempt to overcome the problems that I mentioned at that time. So they remain. The problems remain and the elements are there, but unfortunately the situation is much worse. 
Let us look at some of the elements of the situation about which I talked in 1976 and about which I again must talk in 1977. Unemployment in the Northern Territory is the highest in Australia at the present time, standing at 9.8 per cent of the work force. In August 1975, 1,722 people were unemployed. In 1976, the figure stood at 2, 1 50 people. In 1 977 it has risen to the incredible level of 4,002 people- nearly 10 per cent of the work force. I remind honourable senators that the figures I have cited do not include a number of elements. Firstly, they do not include the Aboriginal unemployed in the Northern Territory. I stated recently that 80 per cent of the Aboriginal people on some settlements are unemployed. The figures do not include many of the women in the communitythe group that quite often is referred to as the hidden unemployed. Certainly, the figures do not include many of those in the Northern Territory who will not apply for unemployment benefits because they do not meet the cosmetic standards; for example, they have long hair, wear funny clothes or have beards. When they go to register for the unemployment benefit they are told to go away and have a haircut or to go away and shave before they will be put on the list. So these people are not included in the figures. I think  Senator Grimes  made a comment about women being the hidden unemployed; I add this other group. What are the consequences of this level of 9.8 per cent unemployment in the Northern Territory? I should like to read from a statement made by a certain gentleman in June 1 974. He said in part: 
The tragedy of unemployment is the personal hardships involved; indeed, the complete destruction of a family's living standards as jobs become harder to get. 
The gentleman who made this statement in 1974 was, of course, the present Prime Minister of Australia,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser.  Mr Fraser  was reported to have then put forward a positive suggestion, as he called it, upon which he hoped the then Government might act. He went on to talk about the Myers report. One section of that report which he used in his statement was as follows: 
The government should consider closely the situation that as unemployment rises so too should unemployment benefits increase. This proposal rests on the principle that as it becomes harder to get work, so too should the compensation for those out of work be increased. 
I believe that principle to be valid, and governments need to make a concerted effort so that unemployment does not remain the complete and absolute disaster it has so often been in the past. 
The principle involved in this is all the more valid when unemployment, as it is now, is a result of the government's mishandling of the Australian economy. 
The commentator was moved to make this remark about the present Prime Minister's statement: 
How true, particularly as unemployment at 332,000 in June 1977 under the Fraser Government is twice what it was in September 1974 under the Whitlam Government. The honourable J. M. Fraser has again been caught with his opportunities bared and his double standards showing. 
But there are other consequences. Apart from what  Mr Fraser  spoke of, there are the sociological consequences of unemployment. I have mentioned in this place before the work by the Brotherhood of St Lawrence under their program called 'Workers Without Jobs'. They knew about the boredom faced by people who had no work- the frustration of those who could not get a job or who lost a job and could not get another- leading eventually in some cases to suicide by those people who were so pushed by the pressure of unemployment that they turned to the ultimate and committed suicide. I think we have had in the past two or three weeks yet another case of a young man in his twenties who was so frustrated by not being able to get work and so upset by the fact that he had responsibilities that he was prepared to commit suicide. But as well as being concerned about the general group of people from my own background, I am concerned about the youth in the community. The following report is, I think, particularly important as it relates to those young people who are just leaving school and going into the work force: 
Drugs and crimes were becoming an alternative for many young people without any work or leisure satisfaction, the Minister for Youth, Sport and Recreation,  Mr Dixon,  said yesterday. 
He told the Jaycees meeting that society was facing an increasingly serious problem as youth unemployment continued. 
Generally speaking, there is a high correlation between high work satisfaction and high leisure satisfaction, and those with low work satisfaction have low leisure satisfaction ', he said. 
Later in the same address to the Jaycees he was reported to have made this further comment: 
I think that certainly the unemployment situation has got something to do with more young people turning to crime. 
This is a reinforcement ofthe study made by the Brotherhood of St Lawrence, from which they made their comments about frustration and boredom. Of course, the pity is that all this is so completely unnecessary. As an example, I refer back to the recent hearings of Senate Estimates Committee E, when the  Chairman,  who previously was a Minister responsible for construction, made the following comments to the Minister and members of his staff who were before the Committee: 
It is appalling to me that the capital works program that the Commonwealth Department of Construction is undertaking is on a shrinking basis, if I read the figures aright. Now, firstly, it is within your knowledge, is it not, that there is very little additional construction for Commonwealth offices, that is, the buildings necessary to shelter and accommodate the Commonwealth Civil Service? 
He went on to make the following comment, which I shall tie with his comment which I have quoted already although they were separated by two or three additional comments: 
As the capital works part of your program is financed out of revenue, it appals me to think that in a state of exigency arising out of inflation the program for capital construction should be reduced. They are productive works and I think that they should be increased rather than reduced, building assets at a time when you have employment resources and money instead of reducing them in competition for other wasteful expenditure. 
He finished off with this rather damning comment: 
I would like you to understand that there is one member of this Committee very deeply concerned about such maladroit development. 
It is interesting to note that he was supported in his comments by members on both sides of the Estimates Committee table. What is the situation in the Northern Territory at the present time? I  shall take a couple of examples to illustrate my point. The allocation in the 1977-78 Budget under division 835 for capital works in the Northern Territory shows a reduction of $847,000 on the 1976-77 figure. This represents a cut of 32 per cent if we take the figure before allowing for inflation. If we take inflation into account, the figure becomes 38 per cent lower than the previous year. Actually, if we want the detail, it represents a 38.4 per cent cut. The allocation in division 853 for capital works and services represents a reduction of $550,000 or 18.6 per cent on the previous year's figure. After allowing for inflation, the reduction is 28.4 per cent. I give those two examples to indicate the quantum of cut that is being made throughout the Northern Territory program. 
It is very disturbing to note that in addition to those cuts, a note in our Budget Papers indicates that in 1976-77 the Government underspent by $ 10.5m. That is not a very big amount, I suppose, in the context of the Budget, but it is a large amount in terms of the Northern Territory budget. The disturbing thing is that this was not done by accident; it was done by design. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  and his officers set out by devices of deferral, of late tendering and so on, to make sure that this money would not be spent. We had tenders being called far too late for the money to be spent. I am afraid that when we look at the program which we have in front of us for 1 977-78 the situation will be basically the same this financial year. The Department cannot possibly call all the tenders it hopes to call in the time it has allowed itself. These decreases which were commented upon by the former Minister are going to be repeated in the 1977-78 financial year. As I indicated earlier, the result will be massive unemployment in the Northern Territory. 
I think I have made the point in this place before-certainly others have made it too- that government expenditure in the Northern Territory, more than anywhere else in Australia, affects the economy of the whole of the Northern Territory. If there is a cutback in government spending by what I have called previously the inverse multiplier' it affects the entire community of the Northern Territory. The effect of the 1976-77 Budget meant, as this year's Budget will mean, a winding down of the economy. Again I make the point: The pity is that it need not have happened. If some measures had been taken by the Government the economy in the Northern Territory could have remained buoyant. Even at this stage the Government could take steps to stimulate the economy. Why can we not see incentives being given to business in the Northern Territory as we have seen them given to business in New South Wales and South Australia? Why can we not see the Federal Government taking the initiative and going forward and inviting enterprise to move into the Northern Territory? I make the point first that the most important thing is for the Government to go in and to build buildings. The point made by  Senator Wright  the  Chairman  of Estimates Committee E, is valid all the way through. If the Government were to move in and to start building the economy would be stimulated. I am talking of additional steps which can be taken. 

 Senator Archer in his speech late last week talked about the inducements which could be given to enterprise to move into the Northern Territory. Let us see these inducements given in the Northern Territory. Of course, let us see more government enterprise as well as more government expenditure. There is no reason that we should not see some employment schemes introduced in the Northern Territory. Much has been said in this place and in other places about the ineffectiveness of the regional schemes. Let us not say that simply because there were problems associated with these schemes- problems sometimes caused by people who were not too anxious to see them operate properly- that they were not effective. Let us see the introduction of some regional schemes- some beautification works, some parks works and other things. Let us see the introduction of a scheme in almost any area which will give people the dignity which comes from work. That is what we are speaking about at the moment. All these sorts of things which I mentioned lead to employment. They all cut the unemployment benefit payments. They all cut the sickness payments. I think it is clear from the comments I made earlier that, when people do not have work, there is a tendency for them to get depressed. From depression, of course, comes mental sickness and following mental sickness there is physical illness as well. The incentives, inducements, government enterprises, expenditures and encouragement for employment would all stimulate the private sector. We would have stability first. Having attained that, we would move onto growth. 
Much has been said in the debate so far about the place of training schemes which have been introduced by the Government. I could not agree more that these are vital within the community. We must have some training schemes. But, while the concept is good, let us remind ourselves that there are other problems as well. The whole area of training schemes is of interest to the Northern Territory because,  Mr President,  as you will know, there is an askewed population in the Northern Territory. We have more people in the 20 to 29 years bracket than most other metropolitan areas and most States. If, as some speakers have reminded us, 40 per cent of the unemployed is in this group, we must have more unemployed in the Northern Territory. I stress once again that training is not the key. It is only part of the situation. The key to the solution of the problem in the Northern Territory, without any doubt, is employment opportunities. I am tempted to digress and speak about the situation of Aboriginal communities. Perhaps people are getting tired of my saying that the solution to the problem on the Aboriginal communities is for employment opportunities to be created. As it is with the Aboriginal communities, so it is with the rest of the Territory. 
There is no point in training if people do not have a job to go into. People will not go into a training scheme unless, at the end of the training scheme, they can see the possibility of employment. I stress that point very strongly. However in the past previous governments- this is back in the years from 1965 onwards- tried to suggest that training was the answer for the Aboriginal people. We had wonderful training schemes. They were well founded. I commend the people who tried to introduce them. But it became painfully obvious that there was no point in training people if they went back to the settlements to work on the garbage trucks or in the hygiene gangs.  Senator Keeffe  knows so well the situation which exists on the settlements. I make the point that the training program must be balanced. I take one example of apprenticeships. There is little point in cutting apprenticeship work off for three or four years and then hoping that we can start again. Obviously an apprenticeship is a three year or four year course, depending on the actual apprenticeship. So we must keep apprenticeships going all the time. I think it is fairly obvious that, if we do not have an intake this year, there will be no apprentices in second year next year or in the third year the year after. The point does not need any elaboration. It must be a continuous process. 
With training we must look at the new technology which exists in our country at present. We have specialisation to a high degree, particularly in our building industry. If we are to have specialisation, we will need to introduce new training patterns. I have a feeling that so often the situation is that we are working in the past. We are simply doing what has been done before. I made the point earlier that youth is my particular concern. There has been a deterioration in attitude of so many of these folk. They say: 'We cannot see a job at the end of the road, so we are not going to worry about school'. We are concerned about those people who leave school and see nothing in front of them. They are not concerned and so they go onto other activities which I have mentioned before. I must stress- I hope I am not becoming boring- that employment opportunities are the key right through. Also, we have to remind ourselves that, at the present time, there are many trained people out of work. There is little point in training more in those areas. 
We must have a two-pronged approach. Training must proceed but we must create employment opportunities as well. I look now at some ofthe specific problems which we face as a result of the Budget which has been handed down and how they affect the Northern Territory. The first matter is the lack of planning in the Northern Territory. I think of a perfect example in the Northern Territory where money has been allowed for 50 miles of road to Port Keats. But at the same time there is no adequate crossing of the Daly River, despite the fact that we have been pressing for that for some time. That means that the people of Port Keats will be able to drive 50 miles on their road and then drive 50 miles home again as there will be no crossing of the Daly River when they get there. This is a farcical situation. We must have a balanced and well planned program so that, when a road is built, a bridge or a crossing is built to go with it. We have been asking for this crossing for some time. Let us see a little more planning. I am reminded of the Papunya hospital which I have mentioned in the Senate before. A beautiful new hospital, or health centre as it was called, could not be used because there was no tank. We must not see this lack of planning which destroys any expenditure. 
There seems to be a lack of balance. I quote now from the Commonwealth Government's new works program as found in the Northern Territory budget. I appreciate that this is the first year that the Northern Territory has brought down its own budget. We commend the fact that this has happened. Obviously features in the budget are the result of planning over the last two years. As honourable senators will be aware, one does not just introduce major programs overnight. Let us look at the expenditure as shown in the Commonwealth Government's new works program, Northern Territory Budget Paper No. 4. I shall compare the situation between Darwin and Alice Springs just to take the two extremities of the Northern Territory. In Darwin, $4.86m will be spent on education; in Alice Springs, nothing. For health, $ 1.38m will be provided for Darwin; Alice Springs, nil. The Department of the Northern Territory in its program appropriates $9.39m for Darwin and for Alice Springs $ 1.36m. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, which is  Senator Webster's  area, will spend $269,000 in Darwin and nothing in Alice Springs. Telecom Australia is a statutory body but nevertheless is under the control of the Government and it will spend $lm in Darwin and nothing in Alice Springs. In Darwin $210,000 is provided for Postal Commission activities and nothing in Alice Springs. 
If we look at the total of these groups, we see presented an interesting picture. If we take the Darwin total of $20.64m and add to that the work of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission in the last year of its operation of $56.54m, we have a figure of $77. 18m. That figure compares with $6m for Alice Springs. Let us look at the population of these two centres. The population of Darwin is 47,000 and the population of Alice Springs is 14,000. I shall not run through the figures again. But honourable senators can see that a disproportionate amount is being spent in Darwin. Of course, I realise that there are reasons for some individual projects going ahead. For some years money will be spent in Alice Springs and not in Darwin and so on. The some proportion of the amount which I have mentioned here for new works applies to the repairs and maintenance program. This reinforces the concept of some differential- one could almost use the word discriminationbetween the Centre and the North. Another disturbing factor, if one pursues these figures a little further, is that Darwin and Alice Springs with 61 per cent of the population have 83 per cent of total expenditure. I do not think I need say more to reinforce my comment for the need for development to be balanced. 
While I am on comparisons, perhaps we might look at the discrepancies which exist in the present Budget between the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. I do not wish in any sense to create bad blood between these two territories. Enough has existed in the past. I have certainly spent much effort trying to break down the bad feeling. Nevertheless, I think a comparison must be made because it stands out so badly. Before I give the figures, I point out that I appreciate that Canberra has three levels of concern, that is the national level, the State level as one could call those functions, and the municipal or local level. But the Northern Territory has two levels. The Australian Capital Territory has the additional national level. When we look at a comparison between these two places we see a most disturbing trend towards discrimination. Unfortunately, it is against the Northern Territory. The indication quite clearly is that the Northern Territory is the poor relation. I shall give just one or two examples to explain what I am saying. I have tried to take these from the State-like functions of both territories and I have left out the national element. I ask honourable senators to remember that the population of the Australian Capital Territory is roughly 200,000. The population of the Northern Territory is roughly 100,000, so we are talking in terms of a one-to-two relationship. Of course, it is not quite as simple as that because the structure of the population of the Northern Territory is quite different, as any sociologist will indicate. 
There is no doubt that the Australian Capital Territory has a higher percentage of public servants. I think it is fair comment that the Australian Capital Territory has a higher proportion of middle to upper middle salaried people. I do not think there is any doubt about that. There are fewer families in the Australian Capital Territory on the poverty line as Henderson indicated. I know that there is a high migrant population in the Australian Capital Territory but it is not as high as the migrant population in the Northern Territory. For the purposes of our discussion here, let us exclude the Aboriginal groups that live away from the main centres and concern ourselves only with those who live basically in the metropolitan or the urban areas. The first area- the one that has been criticised by some people- is the area of welfare services. In the Australian Capital Territory, $4.8m has been allocated for welfare services. In the Northern Territory, Sim has been allocated. Despite this difference in the structure of the population, despite the fact that the Australian Capital Territory has only twice as many people as the Northern Territory, nearly five times as much is allocated than there is to an area where there is a greater need. Let us look at some of the details of this. 
An amount of $190,000 is allocated for the emergency home help service in the Australian Capital Territory. There is usually not much emergency home help needed in the Australian Capital Territory. There are not many part coloured families in the Northern Territory who have difficulty in adapting. There is not the same percentage of unemployed as there is in the Northern Territory. Yet the Australian Capital Territory is allocated $190,000 as against $15,000 for the Northern Territory. The allocations are almost ludicrous. There is an obvious disregard in this Budget for the special problems in the Northern Territory- the low income families that I have mentioned, the part Aboriginal families that I have mentioned and the families without support because there is a higher percentage of families without support in the Northern Territory than elsewhere. Even those families that are nuclear families with mother, father and children do not have the support usually of uncles, aunts and grandparents in times of stress. We know that perhaps while we are not as good at this sort of thing as the Chinese we tend when we have problems to run back home to get some help from our parents or to go to our siblings to get support from them. There are many more single parent families in the Northern Territory yet we have this ludicrous allocation of $190,000 for the Australian Capital Territory compared with $ 1 5,000 for the Northern Territory. 
One extra comment I might make here is that the rates remission component set out in the Budget in respect of the Australian Capital Territory is $257,000. This is for pensioners who cannot pay their rates. One would assume that the percentage of pensioners in this situation in the Australian Capital Territory is not very high yet $257,000 is allocated for this. In the Northern Territory, nothing is allocated- not one dollar. 
I move now to the libraries. I remind the Senate that Darwin is the centre for the library for the Northern Territory but it services the entire Territory. I think of the major centres and the smaller areas. In addition to dealing with the people in Darwin the Northern Territory library service covers Katherine, Tennant Creek, Alice Springs, Gove and Groote Eylandt- all of these, plus the outlying communities over a very large area are the responsibility of the Northern Territory library. The only additional library that can be commented on is the Darwin Community College Library, and that is most inadequate. It has not been established for long and it certainly has not a great many resources for lending. The small departmental libraries could hardly, I think in all fairness, be taken into account. 
Let us look at the situation in the Australian Capital Territory. There is a good service at many branches and the Australian Capital Territory has to concern itself only with a comparatively small area. One could almost walk around in a day the area covered by the Canberra Public Library Service. There are mobile libraries and there are branches in each of the suburbs. In addition to this there is the Canberra College of Advanced Education, the Australian National University, the National Library and departmental libraries. Canberra is very well serviced for libraries. Yet the library allocation for the Northern Territory, with all of its wide area of responsibility, is $205,000. The amount allocated to the Australian Capital Territory is $500,000. That is simply to operate libraries in the Australian Capital Territory. Honourable senators will notice if they look further into the Budget Papers that there is an allocation of $13m for the National Library. Again, one does not criticise this. It is a good thing, but we remind ourselves that the people in the Australian Capital Territory have access to this wonderful institution. 
It is not quite the same, I think, as the situation here where people can walk in through the front door and look up a book. If a person lives at Borroloola and wants a book out of the National Library it is not quite as easy as it is for a person in the Australian Capital Territory who can walk through the main door and pick one up. I think that to make the sort of comment that the honourable senator made by interjection indicates a lack of an appreciation of the problems of the people in outlying areas. Remember that Canberra is well established. It has been established for years. It has access to many libraries and it is a small area. Darwin has a terrific area to cover. The size of the Northern Territory will be known to people here. There is no need for me to start quantifying it. We know that the number of centres that exist in the Northern Territory all have to be serviced starting virtually from scratch with the terrific isolation problems of the Northern Territory. 
I would just like to read from the report entitled Public Libraries in Australia. This is the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries. Recommendation 5.62 reads: 
The Committee recommends that: 
In respect of library services for the Northern Territory the Commonwealth Government - 
The Commonwealth Government, I emphasise- should ensure that: 
every effort is made to resume full public library services in Darwin during 1 976: 
This has not been done. The recommendation continues: 
consideration be given to the establishment of a central Territorial library in Darwin; 
This has not been done. The books are still in Canberra. The recommendation continues: 
a feasibility study be commissioned to determine the desirability of introducing an integrated library and information service for the Northern Territory. 
There is little point in introducing a feasibility study at this stage when the books are in Canberra still waiting to be taken to the Territory because there is no building to put them in and the present Government has recently closed down the information service in the Northern Territory. I will just take another example. I am attempting here to pluck out various examples just to show the discrimination. I take the area of show societies. I remind the Senate that in the Northern Territory there are five show societies. There is one in the Australian Capital Territory. I repeat five in the Northern Territory and one in the Australian Capital Territory. The Northern Territory gets $10,000. The Australian Capital Territory gets $126,000. In addition to this, the Northern Territory operates through voluntary groups but the Australian Capital Territory has a paid trust to organise its showground- a paid trust, a fully paid chairman and members. When I questioned Australian Capital Territory people on this they made a claim that the grounds are used for many other things. One could almost be cynical about this and say: 'Is there any showground in Australia that is not used for many other things?' Certainly one could not suggest for a moment that the showground in Canberra would be used for any national things, that they would be State-like or municipal things. 
Moving to the area of culture, let me look at assistance to the arts. In the Northern Territory assistance to the Arts Council has been listed as $55,000. Assistance to the Canberra Theatre Trust- just one part of the assistance program- is $199,000. If we add to it a sort of a morphous comment that was called 'cultural activities' and an allocation of $2 1 8,000 we have an approximate figure of $4 1 7,000. 1 call it approximate because it is very difficult to dig from the Budget the relevant items for the Australian Capital Territory. It is very difficult to pin down exactly where the money is being spent, and this does not include money that is being given to other national facilities like the School of Music, the Australian National University and other areas which have a cultural aspect to their functions. One cannot help but ask 'is this fair?' when one remembers the size of the Northern Territoryagain, one has to mention it- compared with the size of the Australian Capital Territory. We can think of the small centres in the Northern Territory compared with the one major centre in the Australian Capital Territory. We can think of the distance of the Northern Territory from the main centres of culture. We assume that they are the capital cities and the major urban areas. We can think of the size of the audience and the cultural isolation that people going to the Northern Territory have to suffer. 
In the housing area, it causes a great deal of concern to the people of the Northern Territory that in the Australian Capital Territory one is able to get a loan of $20,000 to build a home, whereas in the Northern Territory one is able to get only $ 1 5,000. Surely nobody will suggest that it is any cheaper to build in the Northern Territory than in the Australian Capital Territory. The opposite is the case, of course. There is no shortage of funds in the Australia Capital Territory, but funds are short in the Northern Territory. The Minister was forced, if one can use that word, to put money into the Trust last year to try to balance it up and retain his credibility. The interest rates and the structure are a better proposition all round in the Australian Capital Territory than in the Northern Territory. I am not critical of the Australian Capital Territory getting these privileges. I am simply saying that what applies in the Australian Capital Territory should apply in the Northern Territory. 
Bushfire control was one matter that interested me particularly. I asked many questions about it. It was very difficult in this area, as it was in some of the other areas of the Budget, to ascertain the exact costing of the difference between burning off and taking preventive fire measures. When I asked witnesses before the Estimates Committee, about this matter they seemed very coy about giving me any comments. I think it is well worth looking at as, perhaps, are the significant amounts listed in the Budget for horse paddocks in the Australian Capital Territory so that those people who wish to ride at the weekend can put their horses in paddocks. These sorts of facilities do not exist in the Northern Territory. I have taken only a few isolated examples. They are probably not the best examples, but they should be enough to cause some concern. If we take away the national aspect of which I spoke and come back to the State-like, municipal and local aspects, there is no justification whatsoever for this discrimination. I repeat that I certainly do not want to see the privileges taken away from the Australian Capital Territory; I want to see them extended into the Northern Territory. 
We were reminded earlier that this is the first year of the Northern Territory Budget. It has been indicated already that major new works will proceed according to plan. The disturbing information in relation to this phrase 'according to plan'- that was the phrase used- is that there are steep increases in rates for electricity, water, sewerage, et cetera, for people in the Northern Territory. Electricity revenue has jumped, according to Budget Paper No. 4, from $10m to $17m- a fair jump or, perhaps, an unfair jump but certainly a very large one. Ordinary rates revenue within the municipality has risen from $1.9m to $3.2m. Rents revenue has risen from $4m to $6. 3m. General revenue- a delightful term- has risen from nothing to $6m. There has been an increase of $6m in general revenue. Miscellaneous revenue, whatever that might mean, has risen from $4.5 m to $8m. It disturbs me unduly, particularly as one who was in the Public Service for some time, to find an item called 'miscellaneous' amounting to $8m. I like to pin down where the money is coming from and where it is going to. This is causing some concern for the people of the Northern Territory. They realise that under federation there are two alternatives: We pay for it or we go without. We are concerned about both situations. 
We are conscious that the Minister for the Northern Territory has given an assurance publicly that special consideration will be given to the problems of the Northern Territory. I do not want to be unkind to the present Minister, but his rating at the last poll which was taken was 14 per cent. We have some cause for concern if people believe that his credibility is down to 1 4 per cent. Fourteen per cent of the people thought he was doing a reasonable job. We are concerned when he says that special consideration will be given. Many people suggest that his saying this does not make it so. It is fair to say that this Budget demonstrates the Government's continued lack of real interest in the Northern Territory. Other speakers have dealt with specific aspects of the Northern Territory program.  Senator Keeffe  has dealt with Aborigines.  Senator Grimes  has looked at social services. If there is any message to be taken from the results of the elections held only a few weeks ago in which the CountryLiberal Party lost its leader, its  deputy  leader and three of its Cabinet members, it is that the Federal Government's policies are not acceptable in the Northern Territory at the present time. Added to this must be the Legislative 
Assembly's own lack of achievement. I am not particularly critical of the Assembly for its lack of achievement. I think it was battling uphill against opposition from the Federal Government. 
I call on the Government to think about the Northern Territory, our northern gateway; to think about the problems of defence in the Northern Territory; to think about the pastoral industry; and to think of tourism, which could be one of the greatest money spinners in the Northern Territory and which could return a tremendous amount to the Federal Budget. I ask the Government to think about the people in the Northern Territory and not just the figures we juggle about so conveniently. Some honourable senators on the other side are more adept at juggling the figures that some of us on this side are. Let us see balanced development. I call on the Government to work with the Legislative Assembly. It does not matter what its political colour is. At the moment it is the same colour as the present Government, so let them work together. But if the political colour of the Legislative Assembly changes, let the Government still work with it to achieve a realisation of the potential of our great north. All that needs to be done is to inject some finance. All that is needed is a little government expenditure to get the economy of the Northern Territory moving and to ease unemployment. I paraphrase one of the comments used in the election campaign: 'This is a wonderful Territory; let us make it work '. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. It refers to the proposed town plan for the City of Darwin recently produced by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. Firstly, will certified copies of the plan be available to interested persons. If not, why not? Secondly, why is the plan being exhibited for one month only instead of the customary three months? Thirdly, why has the DRC declined to specify the statutory provisions associated with the plan? 
I take this opportunity to raise a matter of great concern to me personally, to the people of the Northern Territory, to the Senate, and also to you in your position,  Mr President,  as  President  of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. I direct attention to the facilities available to our colleagues in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I refer not to the remuneration which they receive, for that has been covered by the Remuneration Tribunal, but rather to the basic assistance needed to help them carry out the work that they have to do. 
The Federal Government has made it quite clear that it is anxious to see the Legislative Assembly set up and operating effectively. I would like to quote from a statement by the Minister in the other place on the second reading of the Northern Territory Administration Amendment Bill: 
It is appropriate and laudable that the people of the Northern Territory should at this stage in their history seek largely to control their own affairs. 
The Government is determined that this desire will be fulfilled as quickly and effectively as possible and this Bill is an important step towards the realisation of that aim. It is,  most importantly, an indication that the Government intends to work in a spirit of amicable co-operation with the people of the Territory and their elected representatives in the task of giving birth to Australia 's seventh State. 
Perhaps, following those comments, we might look at the role of the Federal Government in this matter, which would appear at first glance to produce a State-like situation. We realise that the Federal Government set up the Remuneration Tribunal to look at the conditions in the Northern Territory. It commissioned the report and then brought it down in this place and the other place, and I feel we can say that it has some responsibility to see that its findings are implemented and that if financial assistance is needed this will be found. It has a further responsibility, that of ensuring that assistance of another sort which I shall detail later is given the Assembly, to enable the findings to be implemented. 
On the matter of finance I refer to a Press release by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  dated 17 July 1977, which read: 
The overall financial arrangements with the Northern Territory Government will broadly follow those lines that exist between the Commonwealth and the States. 
I direct attention particularly to the following statement: 
Due regard will, however, be paid to the particular circumstances and the special financial disabilities of the Northern Territory. 
I will be referring later to that comment by the Minister. If we see that the Federal Government has a role in this matter we should also see that the Legislative Assembly has a role, and that it plays this role through the Northern Territory Public Service, which has been set up to establish the necessary structure and provide the administative organisation needed to implement the decisions of the Legislative Assembly, but we must be realistic about the job we have given it to do. 
Surely we ought not to load too many responsibilities on the shoulders of an infant Public Service. The phrases that have so often been used by this Government, and by the previous Government, are 'working towards autonomy', 'working towards self government' and, by the Prime Minister, 'working towards statehood'. I see the relationship of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to this Government as that of a daughter government and just as we might perhaps see our own children moving away we can in the same circumstances give similar support to the Assembly. We see of course that the Assembly will need independence, and we would want it to have independence. We would want it to have the fullest possible autonomy, but we need to give assistance, guidance and, where necessary, financial support. I am thinking of the amount of information that resides within this chamber and in the staff in this place, and the wealth of information that could be offered to assist the  Clerk  of the Assembly in fulfilling his function. I am sure that everyone here would be happy to share that knowledge with their colleagues in the Northern Territory. 
Let me review briefly the development of the Northern Territory Assembly. In 1947 the Legislative Council was established, with six elected and seven official members. I would like to emphasise the position of these seven. They were in the main directors of departments; for instance, senior officers of the Departments of Welfare, Mines and so on. These were people with a wealth of background, able to come in and assist the elected members. In 1959 there were eight elected, six official and three nominated members. Again, the nominated members were appointed by the Government. In 1968, a greater step forward occurred when 1 1 elected members and six official members made up the Council. Of course, in 1974, thanks to the efforts of the Australian Labor Party, we had a fully elected Legislative Assembly. 
The point I am trying to draw from this is that, from the beginning there was a very close relationship between the Public Service and the members of the Council in the first place, and then of the Assembly also. They had these good relationships on a personal basis and a great deal of support was given individual members by these heads of departments, the official members, and by the departments themselves. This brings me to the first area of concern to which I wish to direct attention tonight. That is the special support needed by the members of the Legislative Assembly in this role that we have thrust upon them. The Minister has arranged for senior officers to act as advisers, and I would note that they are at the very satisfactory level of Second Division, level 3, m most cases. One or two that I might mention would be specialists in the Aboriginal affairs area. I have in mind  Mr Creed  Lovegrove, who has been appointed to assist the Majority Leader.  Mr Lovegrove  is known to me personally as a man with a very wide background in the Territory. He was born in the Territory, grew up there with Aboriginal people, speaks one of the languages of the Centre and is an ideal person for that task. So we have officers moving in from education and other areas to assist. I would commend the Government on this move, which is an excellent one indeed. There is no doubt that the help these people are able to give is most valuable. The members will have guidance in developing the new structure in the Northern Territory. 
My concern is that the same assistance is not being given to the Leader of the Opposition, and the Opposition generally. I suggest strongly that the Government consider the possibility of giving similar support to the Leader of the Opposition and the members of his Party. It is not enough to speak of briefing the Leader of the Opposition. We are speaking not in terms of someone coming along once a month, once a week or even more frequently to assist the Opposition to understand what the majority Party is trying to do, but rather of the need to give the Opposition suitable staff, as is done here on the Federal scene. 
If one might look at the sort of assistance is offered on the Federal level, I would refer to of  Hansard  report of the debate in the House of Representatives on 9 December 1976, which shows  Mr Lloyd  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the original entitlement of staff offered to the Labor Party Opposition, and what is the present situation. 

 Mr Street answered: 
The Minister for Administrative Services has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The original and present entitlement is 34 positions made available for allocation by the Leader of the Opposition. 
If we look at the levels of some of these people we find that the Leader of the Opposition has one Ministerial Officer Grade 3, one Ministerial Officer Grade 2, three Ministerial Officers Grade 1, two Press Secretaries, three Assistant Private Secretaries, one Secretary Typist and five Steno.Secretaries Grade 1. So other members of the Opposition are given support. I am suggesting that something similar should be done for the members of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory. I make the point that these should be, as is the case in the Federal scene, allocated to the Leader of the Opposition to be placed by him. I would not see them being placed by the Chief Secretary or, for that matter, by the Majority Leader. 
We have seen the situation in the Federal scene with 34 people, but what is the present situation of the Opposition in the Northern Territory? The Leader has one Steno-Secretary and one Assistant. The Opposition members have no steno assistance at all. The members are provided with 15 hours of electoral assistance and they can use that either to have typing done or to have research done. I am suggesting- I think honourable senators here will agree- that this is completely inadequate to someone attempting to move in the peculiar situation of the Northern Territory. It is a developing area. There are many problems. Many members are moving in for the first time. I think this is perhaps something which we do not realise. As one who came into this place only a short 18 months or two years ago, I know how important it is to lean on senior colleagues; to be able to go to them for advice; to be able to learn from those members on both sides of politics who have been here for some years and are only too happy to provide support for the younger members who have come in. That is not available to the members in the Northern Territory. They are a group of young people. 
Research assistance is perhaps the area of greatest concern and need in the Northern Territory at the present time. In another debate recently I mentioned the fact that there is no public library in the Northern Territory. I made reference also to the fact that there are no adequate departmental libraries. I mentioned the fact that the Darwin Community College, as a developing institution, has an inadequate library. The Legislative Assembly Library, if we can call it such, could only be described as pathetic. It is completely and totally inadequate for the needs of the members in the Northern Territory. They have no legislative research assistance as we have here in the Federal scene. I think it is fair to say- again as one who is fairly new here- that surely the research assistance provided by the Parliamentary Library to senators and members in this place would be the best in Australia and perhaps would rank with the best in the world. 
I wonder whether the Chief Parliamentary Librarian might give some thought, with guidance from the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  to taking the Northern Territory under his wing and providing some assistance to it in these early stages. I put this forward as a very sincere suggestion. Until something is established in the Northern Territory-until it has a reasonable library and research assistance -would it be possible for the national Parliamentary Library to provide two or three officers to sit up there and to relay questions down here and provide that sort of backup service? After all, as has been quite clear, the need has been established in the Federal Parliament. The legislation will be as good as the support that is given and the debates will be as good as the support that is given. I put this forward as a serious recommendation to the Government that it might look at this proposition. 
I remind honourable senators that in the Northern Territory most of the laws have to be rewritten. We have a situation in which, for a number of reasons, most of the legislation which is in operation at the present time goes back to the 1800s. There is a gigantic task in front of the Legislative Assembly at the present time. Its members are going to need all the assistance they can get. I think we perhaps have to remind ourselves that not very long ago the problems they had were our problems- they were the problems of the Federal Parliament. I call on the Government not to abdicate its responsibilities in this area. I know that we want to hand over the responsibilities to the Northern Territory, but might I suggest that, without being paternalistic, we could give some assistance with the task which we have put in front of them. 
I move to the matter of office accommodation and refer to two areas, the first being the electorate offices. I read from recommendation 2.20 of the Remuneration Tribunal report on the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly Review of 1977: 
Electorate office accommodation shall be provided at government expense in the electorates of Arnhem, Barkly, Elsey, Nhulunbuy, Tiwi and Victoria River, in Alice Springs for the electorates of Alice Springs, Gillen, Macdonnell and Stuart and may be provided at government expense in the electorate districts of Darwin. 
It is of concern to read the words 'may be provided'. I think that is an area which ought to be looked at. If we look at whose responsibility it is to provide this accommodation we find that quite clearly it is that of the Chief Secretary- the new Northern Territory Public Service. But let us again be realistic. This is an infant Service which is not geared at the present time. I suggest that we could give assistance to it in providing office accommodation in each of the electorates. 
I move to the matter of office accommodation which is available for members in Darwin. Again, this could be the responsibility of the Northern Territory Public Service- the Chief Secretary- of it could be the responsibility of the Department of Administrative Services; we do not seem to be too sure. But if it is not the responsibility of the Minister for Administrative Services, might I suggest that he might look at the matter. Here is an opportunity for him to give some assistance. The facilities are completely inadequate at the present time. The Cabinet members, which would be similar to our Ministers here, and the Leader have no privacy at all. They share a room with their secretaries. This means that if they want to interview someone the secretary has to go outside and waste time while the interview is conducted. Again, I call on the Government to look at this through the Department of Administrative Services, and to assist if possible. 

 Hansard is a problem in the Northern Territory. I commend the efforts being made by the Hansard staff there. They are working under extreme difficulties. When one realises that the  Hansard  record of the first sitting, which was held in September, is still not available one realises what a problem is being faced by the members of the Legislative Assembly. They are still left with their first copies- what we would call 'pinks'- which are in a rough form. It is going to be a long time before the new Government Printing Office is established, so the Department must find some way of giving some assistance to these people so that they can provide the service they would want to provide. 
Travel quotas and finance for travel have been set by the Remuneration Tribunal in the report to which I referred earlier. Members in remote areas and the Leaders have unlimited travel available to them, but unfortunately the problem is that they have no idea how much money is available. It could well be that at the beginning of next year they might find, like some of the departments, that they run out of money and they will have four or five months of sitting in the office not able to get out and service their electorates. Again I suggest that we could look at this situation and make sure that the Leaders and the members in remote areas are advised of how much money they have available to them. If there is not enough money, let us find some more so that they can adequately service their vast electorates. 
I mention very briefly the matter of office equipment which, unfortunately, is extremely limited. I spoke to two members today who bought their own typewriters because none were available to them. There is a shortage of paper and envelopes and the original allocation of photo-copying was at the laughable level of 15 sheets a member a year. I believe that this has changed, fortunately. The postage allocation is 100 postage paid articles a month. Again I query whether that is enough. Surely in an area like the Northern Territory in these small matters there should be unlimited postage available, unlimited photo-copying and so on. If this is limited by finance it is our responsibility. If it is limited by the inexperience of the staff who made these decisions, surely through the good offices of the staff of the Minister for Administrative Services we could advise people of the sorts of needs members would have. 
I must make it clear that I am not critical of the Chief Secretary or his staff. These people are doing a wonderful job working under the conditions that they have. But I think it is fair to say that the Chief Secretary is hamstrung for finance and this is something into which we as a group should look. The Chief Secretary is unsure of his full responsibility. Again, perhaps we could have discussions with him to make sure that perhaps not too much discretion is placed in his hands. This is one of the dangers any emerging government faces. There is a need for clear guidelines. These could be established by consultation. 
I think we would all agree that this is an exciting, if difficult, time for the Northern Territory. I see the Federal Government- I think honourable senators would agree with me- as having the responsibility to which I referred as the responsibility of a mother government towards a daughter government. I see a great need for us to be concerned about what is happening in the Northern Territory. You will recall,  Mr President,  that you visited the Legislative Assembly and at that time you saw the enthusiasm of its members. I can assure you that the present group is no less enthusiastic than the group that you met. I trust that you will take the opportunity later, either in your capacity as  President  of the Senate or in your capacity as  President  of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, of again visiting the Legislative Assembly and seeing the difficulties that these people face. 
I ask that the members of the Legislative Assembly be given similar assistance to what is given in the Federal scene. I would like to see better staffing for all, but particularly the members of the Opposition who are the ones suffering the most at the present time. I would like to see more appropriate office accommodation and more electorate assistance provided to enable the people there to carry out the terrific job which, I say again, we have imposed upon them by moving away from the Northern Territory. I conclude by paraphrasing and old wartime slogan. I am convinced that if we give them the assistance that they need they will do the job. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether she has read a report in the  Canberra Times  of today's date that the manager of a station in the Northern Territory has removed 2,000 head of cattle from a wildlife sanctuary. I ask further whether this wildlife sanctuary is Crown land promised to the shareholders of the Unia Association who have worked the land for five years. What action does the Government propose to take following the telegram sent by the Northern Land Council which calls on the Government to take legal action for the return of the cattle or reimbursement to the extent of their value to the Aboriginal people? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is it a fact that all States and the Austraiian Capital Territory are represented on the National Consumer Affairs Advisory Council but the Northern Territory is not? If this is a fact, will the Minister tell us why the Northern Territory has been discriminated against in this way and whether steps will be taken in the near future to correct the anomaly? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
Has any decision been taken to restore the transmission facilities at Cox Peninsula following the recent visit to Darwin by a Telecommunications Commissioner. 
What action has been taken to secure another transmitter to replace the one intended for Darwin which has now been located at Shepparton, Victoria. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Button.  Before I go into the brief remarks I wish to make, I should like to comment on what has been said by a couple of speakers on the other side.  Senator Lajovic  naturally concentrated on the Special Broadcasting Service, but he told only half the story. He gave an indication of only half of what the Special Broadcasting Service was going to do. Already  Senator Ryan  and  Senator Townley  have drawn attention to the other half of the role of that Service and I will not press the point.  Senator Lajovic  commented that the present Government had inherited, as he called it, a multilingual service that was not good, and that raises a query. Ethnic broadcasting was the concept of the Labor Government. The units have operated very successfully, even under the pressure that the present Government has put on them to close down. I think they have made the point quite clearly, and  Senator Lajovic  would know this, that they do not want to have government pressure imposed upon them. They prefer to operate their own programs, and that is the way things ought to be. I am thinking particularly of the situation in Adelaide, where they have made the point quite strongly that they have operated well and they do not want to have the heavy hand of government on them. 
But that is not the point that ought to come out of what  Senator Lajovic  said. Surely if there is something there that was created in those three years then we ought to build on it, not destroy it. We ought to take the ethnic radio that existed when the present Government came to power and try to build upon it to make it better. Surely that is the way we move ahead. It has been done in other areas. It has been done in regard to Aboriginal affairs and in some other areas. We do not destroy, we build on what was there when we came in.  Senator Lajovic  made the rather unfortunate suggestion, I thought, that we on this side of the chamber were opposed to ethnic radio. That does not make sense, of course. If we set up ethnic radio during our term of office obviously we are in favour of it, and I suggest that  Senator Lajovic  was not listening carefully to what  Senator Button  had to say. He then went on to talk about the fact that there were not enough Continental migrants either in the unions or in the Senate and the House of Representatives. That was a rather unusual statement. Perhaps  Senator Lajovic  should move into the trade union movement and see how many migrants of continental origin are involved in that movement. I think he will find that they may even be in excess of the ratio in which they exist in the community in general. 

 Senator Lajovic then mentioned that under Labor the ethnic radio groups were set up by the Minister, and he took exception to that. He suggested that what should happen, and what will happen now, is that they will be nominated by a committee and appointed by the Minister. One does not see how that is very much different, unless there was no consultation at all in the time of the Labor Government, and I do not think  Senator Lajovic  would suggest that that was so. He also mentioned the role of the Special Broadcasting Service to assist teachers who were teaching migrant children. I think that is a commendable suggestion if they happen to speak the language of the migrant session to which they are listening. If they do not, it is a little more difficult. Nevertheless, if there is any way of doing it I commend it fully. I certainly would like to see that sort of thing operating. 

 Senator Townley suggested that the legislation is somewhat better than it might have been, if I have the phrase correctly. I do not have the advantage of having seen the previous legislation, but I would hope that this is a lot better. Certainly there is plenty of room for improvement now, and the very thrust of  Senator Button's  amendment is that we might have another go.  Senator Townley  attacked a member in another place, and I thought that that was rather unusual. I am new to Senate procedures, but I should have thought that when one has to go down to the level of attacking an individual then one is light on attacking his argument. I should have thought that the arguments were there to be attacked but not the individual, certainly not in terms of drawing attention to a claim that somebody might have a lower IQ, whatever that happens to be, than somebody else. I found that particularly offensive.  Senator Townley  then looked at sponsorship and drew attention to proposed section 79ZA (d). He was critical of it and suggested that this Government would not misuse the powers but another government might. I am sure he did not mean that Labor would do so. It is rather interesting to think of Labor being involved in that sort of sponsorship. 
I move now to the comments I want to make. I think that the Bill is extremely disappointing. It is disappointing in that it does not follow the Green report. It is perhaps even more disappointing in that it does not do what the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has said it does, and attention already has been drawn to that by  Senator Button  and some other speakers. It is not surprising that the Bill does not meet with the approval of the industry or of the public generally. From the remarks made by  Senator Townley  and from what we know of some activities in the other place, it does not meet with the approval of the back benchers of the present Government. I understand that quite a number of changes have already been made, and  Senator Townley  confirmed that in his comments. But more changes need to be made. 
What has the Minister said that this Bill does? Firstly, he has said that it transfers the licensing authority to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal; secondly, that it provides for public involvement; and, thirdly, that it removes political interference. I wonder if we might refer back to the Minister's second reading speech and take the actual words he used from which I have deduced that. Firstly, he said:  in proposing the changes contained in this Bill, the Government has been motivated by a number of important principles which it believes should form the basis of the further development of the Australian broadcasting system. Firstly, we believe that the broadcasting frequency spectrum is a valuable public resource. 
Later in his speech the Minister stated:  the Government believes it has a responsibility to determine the components of the system, that is, the types of services provided by the sectors which should constitute the system, and the role of those components. 
The Australian Broadcasting Tribunal should determine the components of the system and then it should decide on the role of these components. Further, the Minister stated: 
At the same time as we see the need for government responsibility in these areas, it is our view that responsibility for the licensing and regulatory functions in the broadcasting area should rest with autonomous statutory authorities, rather than with the Government itself. The principle of a broadcasting system not subject to political interference is one of the basic aims of the changes proposed in this Bill. The major element of the changes aimed at depoliticising the broadcasting system is the transfer of the licensing power from the Minister to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
Then the Minister stated:  the planning and administration of broadcasting should be designed in a manner which will enable it to be responsive to the needs of the community. 
Finally, the Minister stated: 
The principle of accountability by broadcasters within the broadcasting system has also been considered as an important element. 
That is what the Minister has said the Bill should do. I shall not go through and recap these matters. I think this is pretty straightforward. Let us have a look at what actually happened when the Bill came before the Senate. Let us look at what happened in the area of the transfer of licensing power to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. Traditionally, of course, the Minister has had this power. There have been complaints from the public and from industry that the Minister should not have the power to grant licences. So the decision was taken to transfer the power to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. The Minister in his speech said that this power has been transferred. But has the power really been transferred? The Minister will decide which applications will be called. He will set the specifications on the basis of which applications will be considered. He can actually change those conditions after the licence has been granted. So it is the Minister who gets the licence and keeps the licence. I refer back to the Minister's speech where he stated: 
The Minister will initiate the calling of licence applications as part of the planning process and then refer the applications received to the Tribunal for determination. In inviting applications, the Minister will provide specifications for the particular licence. These will indicate the nature of the  service to be provided, the area to be served, the purpose of the licence, and other technical matters. These specifications will become, upon grant of the licence, conditions of the licence, an addition to the conditions set by the Tribunal pursuant to its powers. 
So it is quite clear that the Minister will decide who has the licence. As has been fully explained by  Senator Button,  the Minister will do this by manipulating by the setting of the specifications. I drew attention by emphasis which, of course, will not be shown in the record to the word planning. To me this is very important. The Green report on Australian broadcasting which has already been referred to talked about a planning board. The name did not matter. The report suggested the setting up of a planning board and stated that this board was not to be given to the Postal and Telecommunications Department. It has now been given to the Postal and Telecommunications Department. By regulation decisions will be promulgated. As far as I am concerned this is one of the most disturbing features of the Bill. I shall refer to that later. 
Those of us who have some sensitivity to democracy, as we call it, talk about decisions being taken by Parliament. We say that Parliament should make decisions because Parliament is responsible to the people. Anyone who has spent any time in the Public Service will know the problems associated with the setting of conditions by regulation. Things can happen. I do not think I need to develop at any great length the dangers inherent in setting conditions by regulation. It is clear that the Postal and Telecommunications Department has direct responsibility to its Minister and is more susceptible to political influence. Ipso facto, this situation must work in this way. I am not saying that will happen, but it is more susceptible to political influence and less susceptible and less responsive to public scrutiny. It is no good the Minister saying: 'Of course, you are suspicious. We would not do those sorts of things'. We have been taught to be suspicious. Those of us who are interested in Shakespeare know the comments Shylock made and the protestations he made about other people being suspicious and about how they were taught to be so. We all know what happened there. Justice must not only be done but also it must be seen to be done. 
Another area of concern to me is public involvement. The Minister spoke about this. Involvement is of many sorts. It might be involvement in the sorts of programs we will have on the stations. It might be involvement in the decision of who should have the licence. It certainly will be involvement in community radio and television. It would want to be involvement in the total decision making. How much involvement is there of the public as demonstrated by this Bill? The Minister says he wants public debate. He has called for it. He says he wants the matter to be discussed fully throughout the community and within the industry. Of course, this is a comment which is often made by this Minister and by other Ministers of the present Government. But as  Senator Townley  has said, there is no time for debate. This legislation will be pushed through the Senate because of the numbers game. There will be no debate by people in industry. It appears there will be little debate by members of the Government parties, let alone by others in this place. There should be an involvement of people in inquiries. It is clear that  Senator Button  has discussed the situation. He has outlined to us how the Bill limits participation to those with an interest in proceedings before the Tribunal. The Bill states: 
Where a person does not have an interest in proceedings before the Tribunal at an inquiry, the Tribunal may declare that the person is not entitled to appear before the Tribunal at the proceedings. 

 Senator Button has developed the argument of what we mean by an interest. It appears from what has been left out of the Bill and from what has been said in the debate so far that the taxpayer, the person who pays for the Tribunal and who pays through his taxes for these things to be set up, does not have an interest. He cannot appear before the Tribunal. It is clear that the Bill lays down no guidelines through which public opinion can be channelled. It is not always enough simply to say that one should ring up and talk about it. We move on to the involvement of the general public, the taxpayers, in the decision as to who should have licences. It is quite clear that the public will have no part in setting the specifications on which licences are called. We notice that proposed new section 82 of the Bill states: 
Before a licence is granted (otherwise than by way of renewal) the Minister shall publish in the Gazette and in a newspaper or newspapers, if any, circulating in the area concerned, a notice- 
setting out an outline of the specifications to which it is proposed the licence is to be subject. 
Those are the specifications which have been decided by the Minister, not by the Tribunal and not by the public who pay for these things. The Parliament is not involved in these guidelines. I have drawn attention to this matter already. There is no doubt that licences will go to those who are favoured by the Minister. The situation has not changed. The present Government has always done that sort of thing. But let us not pretend with a Bill of this type that we are doing anything else. Let us not be hypocritical. Let us simply say that we give licences to those people who support our point of view and we will take back licences from people who do not support our point of view. That right remains with the Minister. 
There needs to be an involvement of the general public in the sons of programs on radio and television. Again, there is no allowance for this. At the moment a number of honourable senators are members of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts which is inquiring into the effect of television on children. Without pre-empting the report I can say that it is clear that many people are disturbed at the standard of television programs. I cannot see anywhere in this Bill where those people could be involved in bringing this matter forward. I cannot see any provision in the Bill which permits them to effect any changes in programs. It is not enough, as some people say, to telephone the station and tell the manager that one does not like a program. There is a lot more than just telephoning and complaining. There is a lot more to deciding on programs than simply complaining about those one does not like. Of course, most of us simply turn off the television set. But there is a danger. This danger is coming through very clearly in the inquiry which we are conducting at the present time. The danger is that the poor quality will become the standard and people will not recognise the defects because they have been conditioned to the poor quality which has been turned out for so long. But I digress. There is no opportunity for involvement in the programs. That is the point I wish to emphasise. 
Let us look at community radio and television. Obviously this is an area of complete involvement. This is where the community has the opportunity to broadcast its own programs in the way that they think is appropriate. I commend the Minister for the Media in the Labor Government, despite the comments that have been made about him, for what he did in the fields of access radio and community radio and for the licences that have been passed on to tertiary institutions. It is quite clear, if one looks at the number of licences that were issued during the three years of the Labor Government from 1972 to 1975, that there was a lot of activity in all areas including tertiary institutions. 
The present Government, for some reason, is opposed to granting licences to tertiary institutions. I received recently a letter from a tertiary institution in Darwin which wants a licence. The institution explained what it wanted to do with the licence. It outlined its plans for drama sections, radio sections, television work and so on. It wanted an opportunity to set up a small limited station within the Darwin area. The reply from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications was what one could only call incredible. In effect he said: 'I have not decided whether to have these sorts of licences. I have yet to make this decision. If I do decide I may invite you to apply. If you do apply under the specifications that I set I may grant you a licence. No, I will not give you any guidelines to help you. I will set the specifications at a later date. ' This is frightening. It is certainly an unnecessary power to leave in the hands of a Minister. 
Some people, of course, would say that the Special Broadcasting Service is the organisation that would look after this situation. That point is not clear to me. Let us have a look at it. The Special Broadcasting Service is a new concept. As  Senator Button  reminded us, it is virtually the Minister's private station. The legislation provides that the Service will broadcast 'Those programs the Government prescribes by regulation and conduct in accord with principles laid down by the Government from time to time'. That is incredible. If that is not the Minister's own private station, I wonder what it is. Again, this is to be done by regulation. There is no attempt to enable the  Senator Missen  's of this world to speak on these sorts of propositions when they come up so as to bring some sanity from that side of the Senate. As I said, this is to be done by regulation. It is no good the Minister saying: 'Oh, we would not do that'. 
I will come back to it later. But, as I said, it is no good the Minister saying: 'We would not do this'. Let us face it: The credibility of the Government is pretty low at the present time and most people out in the community I speak to believe this Government would do almost anything. 
There is the further danger, of course, that the Special Broadcasting Service may take over any programs from the Australian Broadcasting Commission and this is something that will worry  Senator Missen  and no doubt  Senator Lewis  as well. The Government can close down any news broadcast it does not like. It can close down any commentary programs. These programs can be taken over from the ABC because for some strange logic the ABC must take cognisance of what has been done by the Special 
Broadcasting Service, not vice versa. The ABC must stop and the Special Broadcasting Service will take over. 
When in opposition the present Government, of course, claimed that the ABC was biased, It was not, of course; it was only neutral and this was something that the then opposition was not used to. But in the light of the result at Greensborough last week I wonder whether some honourable senators on the other side are not a little frightened. Imagine what power we are talking about going into the hands of a Button or, as  Senator Lajovic  says, a socialist government. What terrible things could happen if this power got into their hands. The mind boggles. To deal with this subject on a more sensible plane, what could the Special Broadcasting Service really do? It could continue ethnic radio and television. It could continue the wonderful experiment that Labor set up and extend it into the communities further to places like Darwin which has the greatest ratio of non-English migrants- or as  Senator Lajovic  termed them, continental migrants- in Australia. It could develop community access radio and television and again extend this facility. This is what the Special Broadcasting Service could do. 
It could provide programs for Aborigines. This is something that I have been calling for for many years. I have been calling for indigenous language broadcasts for Aboriginal people not only for their pleasure and entertainment but also for education purposes. But, of course, the Government will not listen to this. We nearly got it under Labor. We actually managed to get the transmitters into Darwin. But then the present Government sent them away again. 
-One would wonder whether it is, but one would hope so. One has to rely to a certain extent on the track record, and the track record at the present time is not too good. At present we do not have any local programs in English. All of our programs are imported from Queensland. We do not have enough staff to provide us with coverage for ordinary sporting fixtures and local events in Darwin. I wonder whether on that track record we would have much for Aborigines. The Special Broadcasting Service could continue educational broadcasts and telecasts covered by the ABC although I do not know why it would want to do this. The only area the ABC is not covering fully at the present time- although it does some of  this- is in respect of adult education and the open university area. 
I conclude my speech by saying that I think this Bill is disappointing because it could have done so much. There are elements within the Bill which have the right idea. Some of the intentions are good. There has been a good input from the public. There has been a good input from inquiries. There has been some good input from industry. But this has been almost wasted. The situation is no better than it was previously. Others have called the situation bad. People involved in industry, the Justice in Broadcasting groups, have called it bad. They have called it bad because it claims to do what it does not do. They have called it bad because it puts too much power in the hands of the Minister. They called it bad because it does not improve the situation but makes it worse. They called it bad because it has enunciated principles but has not carried them through. They have called it bad because it shuts out the public from the important area of broadcast planning. They called it bad because it opens the door to political manipulation. 
I support the amendment that the Bill should be withdrawn. It should be reconsidered by the Government which should use all the inputs available to it at the present time. The Bill should be put down for discussion. In other words, the Government should do what the Minister said he wanted to do. Let us put the legislation down, discuss it and amend it as necessary. Let us see the Bill in future passed with due regard to these democratic principles which should be enshrined in a Bill of this sort, given the sensitive area with which it deals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 12 October 1977: 
When will a decision be made concerning the transfer of air fare entitlements of former employees of the North Australian Railways. 
by leave-  I  move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I  seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Has the Grants Commission made an assessment of revenue and expenditure needs for the forthcoming transfer of powers to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly? If so, will the Minister indicate when details of the assessment will be made available to the Senate and to the people of the Northern Territory? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Following a recent visit to New Zealand the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs announced that he had invited the New Zealand Minister for Maori Affairs to 'see at first hand the programs we are developing for Aboriginal people under our policy of self-sufficiency and self-government'. Can the Minister advise whether the invitation has been accepted? If so, when will it take place, and which Aboriginal communities will be visited? 
I rise in this Address-in-Reply debate to support the amendment moved by my leader but, as usual, I can see my role as looking at the implications for the Northern Territory of the Governor-General's Speech. I make no apology for that.. It is very important at this time of critical constitutional development in the Northern Territory that we- my colleague,  Senator Kilgariff,  and I- should be responsible for putting in front of the Senate and the Government the needs and problems of the Northern Territory. However, before I look at them I would congratulate  Senator Haines  on her maiden speech and trust that her term in the Senate, though short, will be very satisfying. My colleagues tell me that the sixmonth point in a Senate career is very much like the seventh year of marriage- there are certain problems involved.  Senator Haines  will only have six months and I will be interested to hear her comments. 
The second thing I would like to do is make some general observations before I move on to look at the implications for the Northern Territory of the Speech. I look first at the reactions to the Governor-General's Speech both in the other place and here, and it is most interesting to me as a comparative newcomer to see how many people in both places have drawn attention to the disenchantment with Parliament both inside and outside the Parliament.  Senator Chaney  in what I thought to be a brilliant speech drew attention to an article by a columnist headed The Canberra Farce is on Again'. He reminded us that many of us have had the same sort of experience in our own electorates where people have come to us and indicated that they think the whole thing is a bit of a farce. In the latest edition of the  Australian Financial Review  I noticed this comment: 
Doubtless there are some who consider that Parliament should be formally consigned to the scrap heap, where it is at present making its intellectual home. 
The article goes on as a second thought: 
If that happens we are throwing a lot away. Parliament is, or at least it should be, one of the foundation stones of our society. 
It would be fair to say that this feeling that there is a good deal of disenchantment with the Parliament outside the Parliament has been balanced up and I notice that the honourable member for Hindmarsh,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, made a comment which, one should say, was made in response to an interjection and so was an offthecuff comment. He said in the other place: 
It has been the people's respect for the institution of Parliament that has saved us from the violence of revolution and the law of the street. It has been nothing else. 
Many of the people inside the Parliament who have made comments about the Parliament itself- I am speaking of members in the other place and senators here- are critical of the power of the Executive, and much has been said about this. By the 'Executive' we mean the group which runs the country at the present time. This in turn means that Parliament itself has lost some of its relevance and that as a further extension of this the back benchers have lost the opportunity to make any contribution to the decision making and government of the country. The honourable member for Hindmarsh in the other place said: 
Unless something is done to change the relationship between the Parliament and the Executive arm of government the people will not be entitled to continue to have the faith they now have in the Parliament, because the Parliament will be an expensive rubber stamp that ought to be cast to one side. 
Professor Reid, who was quoted at length by  Senator Chaney  in his contribution to this debate, drew attention to this matter also when he made this statement: 
In the wake of Parliament's diminishing role in government in the last 30 years there has been a dramatic expansion in the role of the Executive Government and with it the status and power of Ministers of State, viz-a-viz nonministerial members of Parliament. 
Professor Reid went on to comment on the doctrine of ministerial responsibility and made the suggestion that it was very desirable that Ministers should be accountable for their departments and their portfolios. He saw a definite need for Parliament to be able to hold Ministers responsible, to be able to call them to task for the actions of the departments within their portfoliosnot to see them removed in some way. He spoke at some length on this issue when he addressed a conference in January of this year. At that time in the speech quoted by  Senator Chaney  he went on to speak about the place of advisers and the Public Service, mentioning in particular the heads of departments and the fact that many heads of departments really feel that they run the show and adopt the attitude: 'Ministers may come and Ministers may go but I will run my department as I want to'. Some Ministers allow this sort of thing; many do not. Many Ministers take full responsibility for and full charge of their departments, but the point is made that the public generally feels that the Public Service, from its head down to those who meet the people in the street, really runs the show and that the Minister is told what to do by these people behind the scenes. Reid also drew attention to the dangers in the statutory corporation. He pointed out that there are many advantages but one of the dangers in the context of what we are speaking about at the moment is allowing Ministers or governments to dodge their responsibilities by adopting the attitude that if there is something difficult to be done give it to a statutory authority so that if the decision is not a popular one the public will react against the authority rather than against the Minister or government. Reid summed up by saying this: 
Australia therefore in the last 30 years has witnessed a national Parliament static in its size but declining in its authority and in its capacity to cope with modern government. However, over the same period the nation has developed an Executive Government vastly expanded in power, personnel, organisational variety and in its capacity to direct the modern state. 
Speakers both in the other place and in this chamber have drawn attention to the lack of credibility of members and senators in the public view, and  Senator Chaney  when commenting on this aspect asked us to think back on our own experience. I remember one experience that I had very early in my political career when after a meeting one of the members of the audience came to me and said: 'You say this but what do you really believe?' I felt then as I feel now that this is perhaps the greatest insult that can be directed at anyone who stands in front of the public. Nevertheless, there are some grounds for this attitude. There are people who stand in public and say things which they do not really believe. There are people who stand in public and say things and then come into the chamber and say something else. I am reminded of a tape recording that was presented to the Law Reform Commission by a clan leader from Yirrkala, a man by the name of Burramurra. He made comments along these lines: 'Politicians come to our place'- he named them but I will not name them- 'and they say one thing to us here and then they go back into Parliament and say something different. We do not trust these people, we do not want these people'. Towards the end of the tape, and he spoke at great length on this matter because trust appears to have more relevance to an Aboriginal than it does to some Europeans, he stressed his respect for the politicians who said one thing at the mission and the same thing in Parliament. 
Various suggestions have been made on the way in which we might improve the situation that has been described by Reid and others, and the first is to restore the power of the House of Representatives. Professor Reid had this comment to make in his speech in January: 
It is becoming fashionable to say that representative democracy has failed us. The truth is, we have really not tried to make it work. Our major representative institution under the Constitution- the House of Representativessuffers from three-quarters of a century of neglect. And we, the governed, are the losers. An ailing House of Representatives affects adversely the political education of all of us, and it has restrictive effects upon the capacities of our Ministers of State to keep abreast of the complex problems of government. 
A suggestion which has come from this chamber has been to extend the committee system. Honourable senators might recall that  Senator Chaney,  in his recommendations, suggested that all legislation might be subjected to the same sort of scrutiny as is given to delegated legislation. Incidentally, I notice that in today's  Canberra Times  Mr Warden,  writing in his Gang Gang column, made this comment: 
. and in the interests of the dignity of parliament the sooner they do the whole of their legislative business in genial committee sessions the better for us all. 
I am not sure whether those of us who sit around and support the committee system would go along with the full extent of  Mr Warden's  suggestion. Honourable senators might recall that  Senator Rae,  in his discussion on the committee system, said that that was where the real work was done. He said that the real work of the Senate is not done in the chamber but in committees. There was a general feeling, which must be of some disillusionment to the general public, that debating in the Senate is the least important part of our duties. During the years a suggestion has been made that we look at the possibility of producing Green Papers to enable the public to discuss measures before they become legislation. To me, this is an excellent idea but one which has not been given a great deal of support. Although many people claim that they will support Green Papers and that we will have more open government, nothing much seems to happen to that suggestion. 
My suggestion as a relative newcomer- it is probably an impertinence- is that our committees ought to discuss subjects before Bills are presented. There are some areas, such as Aboriginal affairs, in which I am particularly interested, which have a great deal of acceptance to both sides of the chamber. We might almost say that there is a bipartisan approach to Aboriginal affairs. Surely it would be much more sensible to use the resources which sit on both sides of the chamber to formulate a Bill. We can sit around and come up with a Bill which is in the best interests of the Aboriginal people. We might think back to the fantastic number of amendments which came from both sides of the chamber when the Northern Territory (Aboriginal Land Rights) Bill was debated. I think the Government had 30-odd amendments and the Opposition had 40-odd amendments. Surely this situation could have been avoided if we had been able to get together beforehand and talk about what would be a desirable Bill in terms of land rights. 
Another suggestion I make in a very small way is that we ought to cut out some of the pointless debate. If we all agree that what we contribute by the standard of speaking in this place is of little importance and little value- I hope not of little relevance- surely there is little point in discussing in the chamber Bills on which both parties agree. We ought to be able to say: 'This is a good Bill. Let it go through'. Then we could get down to discussing Bills which are not good or about which there is some difference of opinion. Many more suggestions could be made, but I mention only these few. 
There is a problem in making these suggestions. During the short time I have been a senator I have made such comments to my colleagues. I have suggested to them that there ought to be some modifications and that perhaps some of the things we were doing were not quite right. I was very smartly put back in my place as being very naive and ingenuous. I was told: 'You should have been here from 1972 to 1975. They'-there will be no prize for guessing who 'they' areworked every trick in the book'. Perhaps that situation existed. I can only take their word for it. The suggestion is that every attempt was made to block legislation. Every opportunity was taken to frustrate what the Government of the day was trying to do. One does not have to be a very keen historian to support the general concept of what I was told. The same reaction, I understand, has been put forward to the olive branch suggestion which came in the other place from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He suggested that he would hold out the olive branch, that we ought to stop fighting and get on with the job of government. People in the other place came back and said: 'What about your actions from 1972 to 1975?' So I wonder, in my own naivety, whether the situation might be, as Bunyan stated: 
I see that saying and doing are two things and hereafter I shall better observe the distinction. 
Overbury stated: 
Some men never spake a wise word, yet do wisely; some on the other side do never a wise deed, and yet speak wisely. 
I am not challenging the sincerity of honourable senators who have spoken, but I use a colloquialism: If we are really dinkum about what we are saying, then let us see some steps towards positive action. Let us see a change of action. Let us have some thoughts coming forward, some ideas for open government. Let us look at the idea of consensus decision through discussion. The other topic I want to look at is the concept of mandate. I am prompted to do so by this comment in the Governor-General 's Speech: 
This 31st Parliament assembles following general elections in which Australians have returned my Government with a majority surpassed only once before. My Government 's resolve is strengthened by this decisive expression of the people's conviction that the basic direction of the Government 's policies reflects their aspirations and interests. 

 Senator Haines reminded us in her maiden speech that at the last House of Representatives election 48 per cent of the population supported the Government. I understand that means that 52 per cent did not support the Government's policies. The figures for the Senate show that 46 per cent of the population supported the Government 's policies which, according to my arithmetic, means that 54 per cent did not. I do not wish to talk about figures. It is the principle which I see as important. I maintain that the mandate concept which is used here and which is used in the Northern Territory is particularly dangerous. It means that the Government claims that everybody who voted for the coalition parties in December last year supported Kerr's action on 11 November 1975; everyone who voted for the coalition parties last year supported every plank of the coalition platform; everyone who voted for the coalition parties in December of last year supported every action of the Government in 1976-77. This is arrant nonsense. Not all members of the coalition support every action taken by the Government in 1976-77. On at least two occasions people crossed the floor in this place, and there have been criticisms in the other place about what the Government has done. So it is nonsense to talk about a mandate because the Government has this wonderful majority. 
The fact is that we do not know why people vote as they do. I think that is fair comment. It is very difficult in Australia, more difficult than it is in the United States and the United Kingdom where studies have been done, to find out why people vote in a particular way. We think we know some reasons. We think we know that some Australian Labor Party supporters vote pretty much as a group. We think we know that there are coalition supporters who vote as a group. We think we know that there are traditional swingers- if I can use the word traditionalin the sense that these people oscillate between elections. Then there are two other minor groups. One group will move from a major party to a minor party. We saw the effect of this in the election in December 1 977. Another very much smaller group will move from the major party to the major party. 
We do not know why they do this. Certainly there are many factors which affect each of these individual groups. The first has already been mentioned by one honourable senator this afternoon, and that is the influence of the media. I do not mean an influence during the campaign time but throughout the whole time. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  indicated to us yesterday that a newspaper called the  Australian Financial Review  encouraged everyone to vote Labor. I do not see that situation in the  Australian Financial Review,  but that is his idea. He feels that that newspaper is encouraging people to vote Labor. There is the influence of advertising during the campaign itself. I do not think we need to go into that matter. We know that politicians or parties are sold in very much the same way as soap is sold. The more money one can pour in and the more effective is one 's campaign, the more return one will get for one's expenditure. Another facet which has some effect and some influence is perhaps a small piece of policy announced during the campaign. There is a suggestion that the hip pocket reaction to the tax proposals put forward by Labor in December last year was a critical factor in Labor's defeat. That was one small part of Labor's entire policy. 
There is the influence of biased reporting, and there are plenty examples of that. During the last five or six years the Australian Journalist Association has said that its members must be careful about this. Their professional standing has been attacked, and rightly so, because of the way in which some of them have acted. Many members rebelled against that situation and left some of the major newspapers because they felt they could not continue in their profession under the restraints that were imposed upon them. Another factor is the influence of personal vendettas against a person, either within parties or from outside parties. No mention is made of broad policy issues, no mention of what Professor Reid calls the means, no evidence to suggest that the policy of either party greatly affects the result of a campaign. The point I am trying to stress is that numbers do not give a mandate to policy, and I think that has to be stressed very strongly. We cannot say simply because the numbers are there that the mandate we have been given allows us to go ahead, believing that everyone out in the field accepts every plank of our policy, supports everything we did in 1976 and 1977, and so on. I believe that that has been recognised by the Government.  Senator Missen  in his contribution made this comment: 
We as a Government have been elected by a very strong majority and that is an important thing. I acknowledge that this does not mean that governments should just make up their own minds and parliaments meekly follow. 
In his Speech the Governor-General was made to say: 
While the objectives my Government has set itself have been endorsed unequivocally by the majority of the Australian people, my Government is determined to act as a Government of the whole and not a Government for the majority alone. 
As I said earlier, we could refer back to the Greeks and say here as Seneca did in those days: Prove your words by your deeds.' I might say in passing that an interesting observation has been made by  Mr MacDonald  of the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations. When talking about political campaigning he said that he would apply the same principle to politicians and political campaigns as he did to other advertising. He would suggest that policy speeches should be challenged if they were not implemented and that every politician who made a promise on television should be taken to court if that promise was not carried out. That is an interesting thought when we look back on the policy speeches that have been made over the last few years. 
-You would know more about that than I,  Senator Baume. 
I am, yes. Seneca said it. If he was a Roman, then I am quite happy to bend to  Senator Baume  if he feels that that is a relevant and more important part of my speech. I repeat the comment: 'Prove your words by your deeds.' It does not matter much who said it. The Government has the majority, we admit that freely, but let us see some Green Papers, let us see more use made of the committee system. Let us see more conference with interested parties. Let us have the open government that both sides talk about. If we can, let us avoid the cynical we've got the numbers' approach and let us see open government. 
I move now to a consideration of some of the implications for the Northern Territory of the Governor-General's Speech. In that speech the Governor-General was made to say: 
This Government 's economic policies will continue to be based on: Rigorous restraint of Government expenditure so as to provide for longer term expansion in the private sector. 
That is a subject on which I have spoken a great deal over the last two years. I speak now of the Northern Territory and what has happened there as a rigorous restraint on government expenditure. Firstly, there has been a complete stagnation of the Northern Territory economy. Businesses have gone broke. There has been the sort of personal hardship that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was so eloquent about in 1974, and there has been some of the greatest unemployment since the depression. I can assure  Senator Scott  that the heavy hand of socialism had nothing to do with the unemployment in the Northern Territory. It was the rigorous cutbacks in government expenditure that caused it. But I have canvassed all of these comments before in open debate and in urgency debates. The Government will not realise that it is a fallacy to suggest that the cutting back of expenditure in the public sector will cause the private sector to take up the slack. The Northern Territory is living proof of this. But the Government will not see that. Most economists that we read about agree with that, although certainly not those who support the Government. I do not want to go into all the arguments again. 
I have talked about the multiplier and about how important it is in the community. I was pleased to see that  Mr Keith  Johnson, the honourable member for Burke in the other place, when talking about the Governor-General's Speech had this to say: 
Is the Government completely unaware that the biggest single purchaser in the Australian community is the Australian Government itself? Is the Government completely unaware that it has a major and significant role in the development and construction of the infrastructure needed to allow for the expansion of our nation? Has the Government overlooked the fact that government purchases are made from private suppliers? Does the Government not know that public works are carried out by private contractors? The Government's argument is without logic or even common sense. 
The Government appears to have recognised what  Mr Keith  Johnson and I have said when in the printed Speech it is stated: 
A thriving and prosperous small business community is an essential part of a well-balanced economy. 
We could not agree more. But it is quite obvious that in the Northern Territory, and I am sure in other places but I speak only of the Northern Territory, we cannot have a thriving and prosperous small business community without government expenditure. Cutbacks in staff have also exacerbated the situation in the Northern Territory. People have less money to spend and so there is a further slow down. There has also been a drop in the quality of services offered by the various departments, and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has commented before on this when I have drawn it to her attention. These arguments have been canvassed already in this place. 
I move now to the employment and training schemes. In the Speech it is stated: 
My Government will continue to place a high priority on employment and training schemes, particularly those which increase young people's skills, and enable them to take job opportunities as they arise. 
I could not agree more that we need employment and training schemes as a long-term goal. When the economy does come back to normal we are going to need tradesmen, we are going to need a full balance of tradesmen, and we are going to need apprentices in their first, second, third and perhaps fourth years of training. At this stage we cannot afford to cut off apprenticeships.  Senator Wright  during the Estimates Committee meetings spoke most eloquently about the need for apprentices and was highly critical of his own Government because it had cut back on the number of apprentices taken into the government service. In the Northern Territory the situation is much the same. I must commend the Department of Construction in the Northern Territory for its activity, but the rest of the departments lag badly in this matter of having a constant supply of apprentices to carry on the training. Those departments have made no real attempt, and in fact the Apprenticeship Board in the Northern Territory has been moved to complain to the government departments that they are not doing their bit to keep young people employed and carrying on training. We have to be very careful that the schemes which are introduced do not simply provide cheap labour for some stores or organisations. There have been reports in the Northern Territory of some organisations which take on people every six months, and I do not think that I need to develop that situation. We know that the training is for a six-month period and that the organisations are paid by the Government to take on those people for six months. 
I commend the Commonwealth Employment Service youth employment program, as I have done before, but I again make the point that training is valuable but employment opportunity is the key to the whole problem. I do not see any evidence whatsoever in the Governor-General 's Speech of any steps in the direction of creating employment. 
I move now to the proclamation of the 200-mile fishing zone. In the GovernorGeneral 's Speech these words appear. 
Legislation will be introduced to enable the proclamation of the Australian fishing zone covering all living marine resources out to 200 nautical miles. 
The question that one must ask at the present time, when there has been so much comment about surveillance, is this: How on earth are we going to patrol our 200-mile limit? It is patently clear that we have no hope of patrolling our present 12-mile limit. I well remember one of the clan leaders from Yirrkala, a man called Daymbalipu Munungurr, speaking to us about the number of foreign vessels coming in around the coast of the Northern Territory to fish illegally. He threw his arms wide and said: 'At night it looks like a city. There is nothing we can do and the police cannot help'. He went on to describe how they- they being the Aboriginal people of the area and he being the clan leader responsible for the area- would go out in aluminium boats to try to do something about it. They would signal for the police to come but by the time the police arrived the fishermen would have gone. Surveillance is well and truly in the news at the present time, not only in relation to fishing but also in relation to narcotics and the possibility of exotic diseases being brought in. In the chamber this morning reference was made to the comments of a Department of Transport officer that two planes a day are moving into the Northern Territory. There is no doubt in my mind. I differ from  Mr Killen  on this matter; I see the Department of Defence as having a distinct responsibility in this area. There seems to be no reason why that Department cannot undertake meaningful training, instead of simulated training as at present. I have already made public comment about the value of having Aboriginal assistants who could help with this project. I understand that at present the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is examining a proposal to provide grassroots level coastal and inland surveillance. According to a newspaper report an organisation to be called the Northern Territory Patrol Service will be designed to provide a relatively unsophisticated surveillance operation, augmenting the more sophisticated surveillance by the other services, particularly the Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force. 
It is interesting that, 1 8 years ago, this same project was tried. The operation was begun and certain people were trained. It was highly successful in the first few months but, according to a report, the rangers were eventually allowed to lapse into oblivion, mainly because no money had been made available to pay them and, to a lesser extent, simply because they were not given the sort of work they were meant to do.  Mr Killen  has made the point that the defence forces are not the police forces. I totally disagree. If we have illegal entry to our land, if we have illegal intrusion, we need our defence forces to protect us from it. This morning, in answer to a question, one Minister spoke of the present dangers in the Northern Territory. I would suggest that it would be economically sound to use the defence forces to carry out this most important task. 
I turn now to the question of assistance to beef producers, which comes under the heading assistance in the rural area. There is not much encouragement for Northern Territory producers in what the Governor-General has said. The Government fails to appreciate that the beef producers of the Northern Territory are in a quite different situation from those in the southern 
States. Being basically a monoculture, the Northern Territory beef industry involves a different method of operation and needs a different form of assistance. The Australian Rural Bank, being a lender of last resort, will not help the Northern Territory producers one little bit. It is unfair of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  or his representative in this place, to say that the Australian Rural Bank will prove able to offer any support to the people of the Northern Territory when they cannot meet the criteria and the proposed assistance will in fact mean no extra money for them. 
The people of the Territory will be disappointed also with the fuel freight subsidy. It is not as beneficial as they were led to believe during the speeches that were made on the campaign trail. They are not happy with the beef subsidy, so those who are in the beef producing industry of the Territory are not going to be very happy. I suggest strongly that a full investigation of that industry be conducted; that we examine its problems, its conditions of work, the social difficulties faced by those who own properties, by those who work on the properties and so on. Perhaps  Mr Adermann,  now that he has joint responsibility as Minister for the Northern Territory and Minister Assisting the Minister for Primary Industry, will encourage the Minister to examine closely the Northern Territory beef industry. Such action will be most welcome. In the GovernorGeneral 's Speech we read: 
My Government will work to improve the quality of education at all levels. 
I am pleased to comment on this and am sorry that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has left the chamber. This field is, of course, his responsibility and he knows of my interest in it. There is certainly plenty of room for improvement in the Northern Territory. The people of that area feel that it is important; that there is need for improvement. Vast numbers of them send their children away to secondary schools. The Director-General of Education must also think that it is important, that there is room for improvement. He sends three of his own primary school age children to England for their education. There has been no improvement in class sizes since 1973, although in typical fashion- a matter to which I drew attention last year- the dodge will be effected of moving 100 staff positions out of the Guidance and Special Services Section into the schools to make it look as if more staff are being provided. There will in fact be no new staff provided: the people are already there doing the work, but have simply not been counted in the staff-student ratio. They will now be counted because the number of children has risen, so perhaps we can keep the level the same. 
The repair and maintenance of Aboriginal schools is another subject on which we have commented previously. It is still a source of complaint. In fact, some of the situations in the Aboriginal communities have to be seen to be believed. The Darwin Community College is not meeting the needs of the community. Classes have had to be cut. There is a shortage of money and staff. Fees have been raised quite dramatically this year; yet leisure classes are still filled within a few minutes of opening. A class will be advertised and all available places filled within five or 10 minutes of the opening of applications. This is a good thing, but it means that those who are behind in the queue are going to miss out. Despite this, no additional classes are proposed. 
The situation in the apprentice field is just as bad as it ever was. More than 80 apprentices are still going outside of the Territory for their training. The Minister was apprised of the situation and he asked the Community College to give priority to apprentices but, of course, he did not provide any more money, so nothing could be done. The College sets its priorities. Of course it has a responsibility. Hopefully, some of the $250m that is to be set aside for technical and further education will be applied to improving this situation. There is a glimmer of light, and I am sure that Senators Davidson and Martin, as well as other senators on both sides of the chamber, will be pleased to learn that further assistance will be provided for the education of isolated children. I assure the Minister that already there are available some very good guidelines and that, if these are followed, the situation will improve. 
I move now to that passage of the GovernorGeneral's Speech in which he referred to the Aborigines in these terms: 
Emphasis will be given to assisting Aboriginals to become more self-sufficient and acquire the skills to manage their own affairs. 
This is a commendable aim, but after the recent Maningrida situation one must ask how this is to be done. There is many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip, and certainly between policy and implementation. Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber agree that the rights of the traditional owners must be paramount. We agree that decisions must be community based. We agree that Aboriginal people must be encouraged to accept positions of responsibility. 
These are motherhood phrases. The Government does not insist that people who accept positions of authority be culturally significant in their own area. 
After the bitter experience that the Minister had in receiving advice from outsiders in the Maningrida situation- and I refer to Aboriginal outsiders, people who did not belong to that area- he will be very aware of the need to have culturally significant people as advisers. As I have said before in this place, many Europeans have a contribution to make, and this is accepted by the Aboriginal people. It is a great pity that at Maningrida, a man who was regarded by researchers, by university staff and by institute staff, as a model for those who work amongst the Aboriginal people in the outstation movement was given the sack by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  I would conclude on this point by cautioning the Minister to be very careful from where he gets his advice. One cannot be more critical than that on the subject because, as I have said, nobody knocks motherhood. The Governor-General's Speech also states: 
Legislation will be introduced to establish a Government of the Northern Territory with its own Ministers responsible to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and having responsibility for its own finances. 
I notice that, somewhat different from the Speech of a couple of years ago, there has been a movement away from the concept of Statehood. I wonder what information has come forward to suggest that we might stop talking about Statehood and start talking about self-government. I commend the Government on its steps towards Statehood. We have been trying for many years to get this established in the Northern Territory. But why not involve the Opposition in any discussions which go forward; why not involve the people of the towns, the people of Darwin and Katherine, and all of the Northern Territory, in those discussions? 
I notice that in the same paragraph of the Governor-General's Speech there is a reference to public comment and debate on the proposals for reform but that, of course, refers to the Australian Capital Territory. In the Northern Territory we are not to have public comment and debate on the fact that we are being pushed towards self-government when, earlier, we were being pushed towards Statehood. Only two forums have been mounted in the Northern Territory to discuss the whole problem. Both were mounted by the Australian Labor Party. 
-They would appear not to exist now. This is too important an issue to be decided unilaterally. The Opposition has something to offer, as we have those who are out in the field. Let us hope, as honourable senators have suggested, that we will have open discussion, Green Papers and committees on the subject. 
The same comments could be applied to finance. Finance is the area about which most people in the Territory are concerned. In fact, if I can play with words, this is the area about which they are most concerned. It is vital to the transfer of powers; yet we have had no discussion on this issue. Despite continual requests that I have made and continued requests that the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in the Assembly has made, no Northern Territory Labor politicians have been involved and no Federal Labor politicians have been involved. It has been a matter for the members of the Executive only. They are like little boys guarding a secret about their favourite fishing ground or something equally ridiculous. They are not prepared to come out and ask the people, to come out and ask the Opposition. I again call for free and open discussion of all the alternatives that are available to us in the area of finance. This is an opportunity that surely is unique in our lifetime. Do not let us spoil it with petty party politics. 
There is a good deal more that could be said, but I think I have said enough to show that there are few specific proposals that one can discuss and those proposals that are specific are not at all heartening for the Northern Territory. I make the point that Territorians generally are disappointed with the Governor-General's Speech and most would support, as I do, the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that the opening of the Tennant Creek Hospital is being delayed because of shortage of staff? If so, will the Minister indicate whether this staff shortage is a result of the unrealistic staff ceilings in the Department of Health in the Northern Territory? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory whether it is a fact that funds were not made available to  Dr Peter  Hooper of the Animal Industry Branch in Darwin to enable him to visit Asia to allay fears about the disease bluetongue? If this is a fact will the Minister explain why this decision was taken in view of the dire situation in which Northern Territory beef producers find themselves at the present time? Does the Minister not agree that markets are the key to the solution of the present problems facing the Territory's pastoral industry? 
I seek the indulgence of the Senate for just a few minutes to raise what seems to be an anomaly in the sales tax exemption legislation. This matter concerns sales tax exemption on motor vehicles for disabled persons. The exemption items which deal with these matters are 135 and 135A. I am going to read out those items. My authority for this is in a letter from the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in Adelaide. It reads: 
Exemption item 135 applies to a motor vehicle for use in the personal transportation of a person who has served in the Defence Force and as a result of such service has lost a leg or both arms, or is in receipt of a special pension in respect of blindness, total and permanent incapacity, or tuberculosis. 
Item 1 35a exempts a motor vehicle for use in the transport to and from gainful employment of a person who has a certificate from the Department of Social Security to the effect that he or she has lost the use of one or both legs to such an extent that the person is permanently unable to use public transport. 
It can be seen from the conditions set out in that letter, firstly, that full employment is not a requirement in order to get the benefit of exemption. Secondly, the benefit of the exemption is limited to people who are unable to use public transport because they have lost the use of a leg or both legs. The third point to notice- although it is not mentioned in the part of the letter that I read out- is that the Commissioner of Taxation has no discretionary powers. It is for this reason that I must raise the matter in this place. 
I want to raise the case of a woman who has had two strokes, one eight years ago and one four years ago. The doctor who attended this woman said she would not walk again. He also said she would not move the arm that was affected by the stroke. He suggested that she be put into a home for the rest of her life. She refused. The woman, much to her credit, persevered and overcame a lot of the disability caused by the stroke. If I may use perhaps what is an unparliamentary phrase, to give some idea of the sheer guts of the woman, she was prepared for three years to learn to crawl, and she spent that time getting back her facilities. She now drives her car. She cannot walk but she can keep house. She is very active and she is involved in community activities. The car that would be ideal for this person is a Mini Moke. The reason for this is that the wheelchair can be lifted in and out of the back of the car. Modifications are necessary and these cost well over $600, thus adding to the price of the vehicle. 
The lady in question sought but was denied sales tax exemption.  Her  situation at the moment is this: She cannot use public transport because she has not got the use of her legs. Anyway, there is no transport where she lives. She is not gainfully employed according to the interpretation of the Australian Taxation Office. She does not drive to or from either full time or part time work, but she is gainfully employed in the sense that she elected to stay home, to keep house and to continue in her community activities role. The  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation advocated that the exemptions were an incentive- 'incentive' was the word he used- to people to try to encourage them to keep working. Surely this is too narrow a definition, or perhaps interpretation. 
Surely it is an infringement of personal liberty to say to a person: 'You must go out to work if you want some assistance in this area'. The woman had the choice of either going into a nursing home where she would be kept at public expense for the rest of her life or struggling to resume her place in a home and in the community. She opted for the latter and I think she is to be commended for this action. I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to look at the possibility of extending the exemption to cases such as this. Obviously, there would not be many such cases and they would not place a great burden on the economy. But surely gainful employment should not be the criterion to determine whether this person with this disability is given some assistance. The woman does not want to be called an invalid. She does not want an invalid pension.  Her  comment to me was: 'I am not an invalid; I just have a disability'. 
Without the sales tax exemption the purchase of the vehicle was virtually impossible. In fact, without help from her son she would not have been able to buy it. It was just that much more difficult because of the cost of the vehicle plus the cost of the modifications that had to be made. She said that as far as she was concerned the only alternative to having a vehicle was that she would have to stay home and rot. Her comment to me was that she would rather be dead. I ask the Treasurer whether he could look favourably at this case to see what can be done for a rather wonderful woman. 
To broaden the issue just slightly, sales tax exemption is available to some groups. We have mentioned them- the totally and permanently incapacitated people, those persons who are in gainful employment and so on. It is difficult and perhaps inappropriate to compare the needs of one group against the needs of another, but I suggest that the needs of the group represented by this woman are no less than the needs of those people who at present are given sales tax exemption- those people totally and permanently incapacitated, in gainful employment and so on. I ask the Treasurer to look at the relevant legislation to see whether help can be given. If help cannot be given, perhaps he will consider amending the legislation to correct what appears to me to be discrimination. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether the industrial staff of the Darwin Hospital have warned that industrial action will be taken within 14 days if staff shortages are not eased. If this is a fact, will the Minister indicate what action is being taken to increase the number of industrial staff at the Darwin Hospital? 
I seek leave to propose a motion in respect of the annual report of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies for the year 1976-77 that was tabled yesterday. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I was appointed to the Council of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies after the report had been handed down in June 1977 but I have been interested in the work of the Institute for many years. I saw much of the work which was going on in the Northern Territory and much of the work that has been done there since 1964-65. In looking at the report, we must commend the Council for the work which it has done in the period 1 976-77 and, in particular, the work done by the  Chairman, Dr Hiatt.  The small report belies the quality of the information that is in it and does not indicate the amount of work which has been carried out by the Institute over that time. We have to look to other publications for some indication of the amount of work that was done. We have to look into research journals and into academic journals if we want to put it that way and we have to move into the field to see the excellent work which has been done by the Institute in that time. 
I commend also  Dr Ucko,  the Principal, and his staff for the way in which they have organised and administered the funds of the Institute and carried out this most worthwhile work. Those of us who were on the land rights committee, as we called the committee, saw some of the work being done in the Territory last year when we watched a videotape recording of one of the committee 's hearings at Batchelor. We watched the work done by the group there when they were recording comments made by the traditional owners when where their land lay in a certain section of the Alligator River area of the Northern Territory. All of the committee members were, I think, impressed by this unique method of recording, realising of course that there are few other ways in which this recording could be done. I would think that the work of the Institute over the past 12 months justifies the vision of  Mr Wentworth,  who was a member of the other place at the time the Institute was set up- I believe he was the father of the Instituteand carries on the good work started by Professor Macintosh and the early staff. But there are a number of disturbing features of the report which I would like to bring to the attention of the Senate. The first is a comment on page 1 of the report which states: 
The financial grant from the Australian Government for the year 1976-77 amounted to $1,882,500 which was at the level of the reduced grant for 1975-76. 
Let us note then that the grant for 1975-76 was reduced- in other words, it was less than the grant for 1974-75-and the grant for 1976-77 was set at the same reduced level. Despite the increase in costs from 1974-75 to 1976-77 there was no increase in funds. No additional money was provided to the Institute to carry on its work. No additional money was provided for the additional responsibilities which were given to the Institute. This seems most unusual during a time when we had the great discussion on land rights, when there was perhaps a renewed interest in Aboriginal affairs on the part of the Government, and when there was a need for much more of what I call 'action research' by the Institute to guide the Government in its deliberations. 
When referring to advisory committees, the report states at page 1: 
Institute Advisory Committees have continued to meet - 
This is the important part-  although due to financial restraints placed on the Institute it was not possible for all Committees to meet twice in the financial year. 
I think it would be agreed by most Council members of the Institute that the committee work is a most important part of its chaner. I mention, in particular, the work of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Advisory Committee. I do not think there is any doubt that we, in this place, would realise what limitations would be placed on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islander people meeting once a year to give advice to the Institute. 
Let us face it: These are the people who are most involved in the work of the Institute. I would not want to call them the 'raw material' of the Institute, suggesting any sort of derogation, but they are the people with whom the Institute is involved. They themselves saw a need for meetings. They saw the need for meetings at different locations so that different groups within the community could be involved. It seems to me a great pity that it was necessary to cut down on the meetings of those particular committees. 
I turn now to page 2 of the report where research fellowships are mentioned. This comment is contained in the report: 
Due to the imposed Institute staff ceiling it was not possible to replace Research Fellowships for the positions which became vacant during the year. 
Staff was cut at the Institute by an incredible 15 per cent. More than half of the Institute staff was cut due to staff ceilings. I wonder if all honourable senators appreciate the fact that the research fellows referred to in the report are people who are what we call short term research folk- those who do perhaps one or two years or perhaps even three years work and then go back overseas because there was no possibility of giving them funds for further research. These people have a wealth of knowledge about the Aboriginal people. It seems a great pity that their work should be lost to us simply because we cannot provide additional moneys to enable them to carry on their work. This was one of the early criticisms of the Institute- that people came, completed their doctorates, and then went away and forgot about the Aboriginal people. The Council of the Institute reacted early to this criticism and made sure that the people who were carrying out work would have a contribution to make. But obviously, if one has a short term research fellow who works for a while in the field, he must have time to write up his work and he must have time to go back and continue his work. We lost during that time a tremendous amount of information which could have been valuable to the Government and the people of Australia. Page 2 of the report also states:  . . due to financial restrictions and the uncertainty in regard to funds for the 1977-78 financial year Council was not able to authorise the funding for all the projects approved, particularly those commencing in 1977-78. 
I stress the words 'the projects approved'. That means the projects that were seen by Council as necessary. Two such projects in which I was particularly interested come to mind alcohol, which was mentioned by  Senator Baume  in his contribution to an earlier debate, and housing. They were two projects that were seen as being absolutely essential to go ahead- two projects about which the Institute had had many requests for assistance from both government and nongovernment agencies. These projects were not able to go ahead. I am not picking those two projects as being the most important but the importance of them should be obvious to all honourable senators. They were not able to go ahead because money had been cut back. 
In another section of the report there is an indication that training of Aboriginal people had to be cut back. I am advised that no in-house training of Aboriginal people took place in 1976-77. This seems to me to be an absolute disaster. An organisation which is perhaps uniquely fitted to carry on training Aboriginal people in particular areas was not able to do so. I think that there would be general agreement on both sides of the chamber of the need to involve Aboriginal people and certainly to train Aboriginal people so that they can make a greater contribution as a result of learning of the way that researchers do their work. 
In conclusion, I commend the Institute for the work done during the 1976-77 financial year, but sincerely ask the Government to look at the obstacles it has placed in the way of the Institute, basically by cutbacks in finance and perhaps more importantly, but still related by the way in which the staff ceilings have been reduced so drastically by over 15 per cent. If the Government will look at this matter and provide funds which will enable the Institute to lift staff ceilings, it will be able to carry out the good work for which it was designed many years ago. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guilfoyle)  adjourned. 
The Senate is debating the Territory Authorities (Financial Provisions) Bill 1978. Although it is called a Territories Bill it is really designed for the Australian Capital Territory. My colleague  Senator Sue  Ryan will be speaking about the influence of the Bill in the Australian Capital Territory. I will limit myself to making some comments about the Northern Territory. We in the Northern Territory have a number of concerns about the Bill because it is designed to meet the problems of one area and Bills which are designed to do that seldom meet the needs of another area. The Act will apply to the Northern Territory. That is implied within the Bill and we are concerned about that. Little has been said in the other place and in this chamber up to now about the problems facing the Northern Territory. Of course there are implications for us in the Northern Territory in any action which is taken in the Australian Capital Territory as a result of any Bill which is designed specifically to meet the needs of the Australian Capital Territory. Let us look at the Bill. In the second reading speech the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  who in this chamber represents the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott),  stated: 
This Bill is to overcome technical problems affecting statutory authorities established by Territory ordinances. In 1973 it became apparent that provisions for the payment of Budget appropriations may be beyond the power of a Territory ordinance. 
Later in the speech she stated: 
Since then it has become apparent that certain other provisions concerning loans and taxation may also be beyond the powers of an ordinance. 
In the other place just recently there was reference to the 1973 Act. In the other place the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who was mentioned by  Senator Knight,  had this to say about the 1973 Act when referring to the present Bill: 
Thus, the Bill goes beyond the 1973 legislation by providing that for all territory authorities the Minister for Finance may determine the terms and conditions of the loan to a statutory authority of moneys appropriated for the purposes of this Parliament. 
It is rather interesting that the part of the honourable member's remarks to which  Senator Knight  did not take exception comes early in the speech.  Senator Knight  had some comments to make about the later part of the speech and no doubt  Senator Ryan  will deal with those. I add a word of caution to  Senator Knight.  It appears to me that he has been sitting too close to  Senator Carrick  and that he has caught a disease from that worthy senator. This disease has two symptoms. The first is that one blames Labor for everything; the other is the argument: 'If Labor did it, we are justified in doing it ourselves'. I suggest that the honourable senator shift before his own obvious ability and logical processes are beyond treatment. 
What does the Government say the Bill is about? We are told that it is about the funding of operations of statutory authorities, the funding of their day-to-day running- what we might call the operational expenditures- and the allocation to cover the yearly costs of operations. It is about loans for capital works and the application of Commonwealth taxation revenue to statutory authorities. 
As has been mentioned already by  Senator Knight,  this legislation is designed to meet what has been called the unfair advantage of the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. My information is that this legislation was prompted by certain major organisations- not the Chamber of Commerce- and the names of the David Jones and Lend Lease organisations loom large in the information that came to me. My only concern is for the Northern Territory. Any decisions which are taken in relation to this legislation may have some implication for the Northern Territory. As honourable senators know, the Northern Territory is moving towards self-government and perhaps later to statehood. The situation in the Northern Territory is what I have called, and what I will continue to call, unique. The people of the Northern Territory at present must look at what structure of government they will have as well as what structure of public enterprise will be adopted. These matters have not been settled yet. 
So, it is very difficult for us to assess what effects a Bill such as the legislation we are presently considering will have on a development as yet unformed. Because of that unique new and developing situation, many hope that an opportunity will be taken in the Northern Territory to have a new organisation. We may even see a new organisation in the structure of government. We may see a new organisation or new concept in public enterprise. Surely we will not follow slavishly the situation in the States and repeat the mistakes that have been made there over the years. Surely we will learn from what has been done elsewhere and come up with some ideas. 
I have made a constant call on this place- and I repeat it- for an evaluation of what is happening elsewhere in Australia and in other countries to provide ideas that we can use in the Northern Territory. It will be to our discredit if in the form of government we are to have in the near future in the Northern Territory we simply adjust and modify what has gone on in other places. 
We feel that there is some unseemly haste in what is going on and that there ought to be a postponement of the enactment of part of the Bill. Therefore, I formally move the amendment, circulated in my name, which is in the following terms: 
At the end of motion, add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that provisions relating to taxation of statutory authorities in the Territories should be withheld pending discussions on the financial arrangements for the Territories as they move towards self-government'. 
In making a very brief contribution to the debate, I do so with some trepidation, especially after listening to the three legal people on the other side of the chamber. I was encouraged to do so by the fact that my nonlegal colleague,  Senator Georges,  was prepared to enter the debate. I make it clear that I have no desire to emulate him in his experiences with the law, preferring to remain, as it were, an outside observer. I shall keep away from Queensland and keep my nose clean, so to speak. My first contact with the Australian Institute of Criminology took place some years ago when I attended one of the seminars conducted by that organisation on the broad area of crime prevention. I cannot remember its exact title, but I was invited to attend it. I was surprised that I was the only educator, if one may use that word, who was involved in it. The fact that I am an educator prompted me to rise tonight perhaps to bring one little additional facet into the debate. 
The seminar was composed basically of learned judges, magistrates and special magistrates from all over Australia, police commissioners and senior departmental officers. As I say, I was the only educator there. I was present because I believe that education has a role in this whole field of crime prevention. A number of influences operate on the young person as he moves through his childhood into maturity. The home no doubt has the greatest influence. It is there that the child gets his original foundation. The Jesuits suggest that the years of a child's life from nought to six set a certain pattern for the rest of his life. Most educators suggest that there are times during the life of a child when he is more susceptible to suggestion than at others. My own feeling is that the home has the greatest influence, if it has something to contribute to the child. I do not want to go into that factor, it might come up in later comments. 
The church, I believe, has a lessening influence on young people. I believe that is a great pity but is a factor which the churches are recognising and which those who are dealing with young people have to recognise. It has not the same influence it once had. Unfortunately the clubs that are set up to deal with young people, to help them avoid crime, are I fear a little Victorian in their approach- in suggesting that the devil will find work for idle hands; that if one gets young kids into a club they are not likely to get into trouble. This is a commendable thought and I certainly do not want to denigrate clubs. I have spent a lot of time working for them myself, but one has to admit that quite often the young people who attend such organisations are those who perhaps have influences elsewhere and perhaps would not 'need ' what the club has to offer. 
So I come to the school, which I believe has a great influence on young people. If we take school as starting with pre-school and going through into primary, secondary and the later stages of college and university, we have a definition of school as I discuss it tonight. If education is anything, it is attitude change. Perhaps to use the word 'change' goes back to the old original sin concept that the child comes in with problems which need to be corrected. I am not suggesting that this is so. Perhaps we ought to say 'attitude development' rather than 'attitude change'. Nevertheless educators do tend to stick to this concept of attitude change; that the child has come in and if there has been no change there has been no education. Notice that here we are avoiding reference to facts to be acquired, knowledge to be stored and so on. We are speaking of the major role of the school as achieving this attitude development or change. 
-Behaviour modification is normally a science of its own, as the honourable senator knows, and is not normally applied within the schools. It is specialised and seen as remedial, but it could express the same idea. 
When I first went to the seminar, my impression was that the criminal, to use that word, was being treated- as I expressed it to one or two of the participants at the seminar- rather like a choir boy who had been caught smoking. It seemed to me that there was a new approach coming through from the Institute, which suggested that criminals were not really bad sorts of people; that there was no great problem. I have oversimplified the position, of course. But nevertheless it did appear to me at that early stage that we were looking at the case of the choir boy who had been caught smoking, or doing something of a very minor nature. 
-I do not think he can sing. From my average background my opinion was that if one fell foul of the law there was a certain punishment. I listened to the comments made at the seminar- I make this point because it was one of the Institute's seminars- and came away with quite a different attitude. I listened to the comments about the farms that have been developed. Although they were not new to me- I had seen them before- I heard a lot more about them. I heard about the weekend detention concept of letting people work during the week and simply give up their free time. I heard about rehabilitation programs and all those things which constitute the new approach. Naturally, I came away with a change in my attitude towards the sorts of things that ought to be happening to those people who have fallen foul of the law. 
I have raised this matter only to indicate that it seems to me to be a great pity that the Government has seen fit to make cuts in the allocations to these two excellent organisations. I agree that money is not everything and there are other ways of doing things, but money is important if we are to carry on these sorts of training and research programs. There is a great need for investigation at present. This goes beyond simply the techniques that the police might use. I am talking about a much broader picture of things which the Council and the Institute could be considering. We need research into the psychology of those who commit crime. Some research is done but a lot more work is needed to be done in this field. We need sociological studies into why people adopt this style of life. We need studies into the effectiveness of the techniques of punishment, detention or whatever word one wants to use. We certainly need a lot more research into rehabilitation techniques. 
Perhaps the greatest amount of work that needs to be done is in the derivation or compilation of programs which will guide those who deal with the young. This is necessary firstly for parents. I do not mean parents in a broad sense, I mean those parents who have a child who falls into the general category of 'juvenile delinquent' or a child who has fallen foul of the law, to continue to use that phrase. We need to help teachers to get programs going in schools for attitude development or behaviour modification, which is something to which  Senator Baume  referred. They need some assistance in identifying at an early stage those people who have a propensity towards crime. I am not suggesting that we go back to the old concepts of stigmata. But we need teachers who can see when children are moving away from the norm. 
I shall not detain the Senate for long but I should like to refer to some experiences I had as a teacher many years ago when I had to deal with juvenile delinquents. I had a class composed almost entirely of young folk who had spent some time in homes or on probation. I looked at these people to try to find out something about them and what was common to each one of them. It was incredible that they did not seem to have anything in common except that they had been in front of a magistrate and many of them had long records. They came from a wide range on the social spectrum. They came from all points on the continuum. They did not appear to have any identity in that way. Many of them were insecure but that was not a feature peculiar to them. Many children who were not in trouble were also insecure. Many of them needed love. Again, this was common to many young people who did not get love at home. Many were inactive at home. They went home of an afternoon and there was nothing for them to do until the next morning. Many of them had broken homes. Again, many of the children who were succeeding in school had the same problem. 
There appeared to be among some of them a certain need for excitement. They needed to go out and establish themselves by engaging in exciting activities. Some of them needed money, but not all of them. Many of them had plenty of money and did not need to go out and steal to get money. Some gained satisfaction from organising things. I remember one instance of a 1 3-year- old girl who had a face like an angel and who was organising a prostitute ring of 45 people. These people ranged from girls of her own age to women aged 20 years and 30 years. She obviously got some satisfaction out of manipulating this empire. We need research to find out what it is that is common to young people in this situation so that we can help the people working with them to do something about rehabilitation. 
Before concluding my remarks I wish to mention my particular interest in Aborigines. I suggest to the Institute and the Council that this is a great field in which people can work. A lot has been done in the areas of alcohol abuse and petrol sniffing. Much more needs to be done. People have examined the number of people who drink and the amount they drink. There has been very little research into what makes people drink. There has been very little research into what makes people, particularly young men- I am speaking here of men aged 12 years and onwards in the Aboriginal sense- sniff petrol or whatever else they can get on the settlements. There is a field for research into the lack of respect for traditions in young Aboriginal people. There is a lack of respect for the law among a number of Aboriginal people. We must find out why young people see crime and the act of going to gaol as being some mark of manhood. They are proud of the fact that they have been arrested and put in gaol a number of times. 
I am not speaking generally. These are problems that face those of us in the Northern Territory. I know that many honourable senators opposite have also seen them. We need research into the problem of those young people, usually of mixed blood, who are in limbo between two organisations. Many full-blood Aboriginals are in the same situation of being between two cultures. If this is to result in some sort of crime- in some cases it does- this field ought to be looked into by the Institute and the Council. It is a great pity that because funds have been cut many of the projects those organisations want to undertake cannot be undertaken. Many more projects which perhaps they have not even looked at also need to be undertaken. In this case the Institute of Criminology could be working with the Institute of Aboriginal Studies to look into those areas. I commend the Institute and the Council on their reports and on the work which they are doing. Once again I reiterate what my colleagues on both sides of the chamber have said, that is, it is a great pity to see that the funds for these groups have been cut. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-That is not relevant to the figures we are discussing at present. 
-Not at all. It does not concern the figures I am quoting at the moment. The reason that the North Australia Railway was running at a loss was that the cost of rebuilding houses in Darwin destroyed by Cyclone Tracy was included in the costing of the freight and this gave a totally irrelevant figure. General rates rose from $97.56 to $1 19.66. 1 do not need to pursue that in order to show what happened when that one section of railway was taken out. 
I am most encouraged by two statements which were made by senior Ministers of the present Government. The news release which accompanied the presentation of the report said: 

 Mr Nixon also reaffirmed the Government's commitment to proceed with the completion of the Alice Springs-Tarcoola standard gauge railway line and indicated that this would provide all-weather access through the central corridor in the shortest possible time. 
It is very encouraging to hear that  Mr Nixon  had that to say. It was also encouraging to hear what  Mr Sinclair  had to say in a telex which he sent to the Mayor of Alice Springs,  Mr Smith.  In it he said: 
After discussing the issue with  Mr Sam  Calder, M.P., and  Senator Bernie  Kilgariff, I believe it necessary to identify a special fund allocation specifically for the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway. This would mean, in addition to funds provided to the South Australian Government as part of the national program and for allocation at their direction, there would be a specific sum provided to upgrade the Stuart Highway over a period of years. 
When we discuss this report at some length later we will discuss the relationship between the Federal Minister and the State Minister.  Mr Smith  wrote back to  Mr Sinclair  in these terms: 
I take the liberty of reminding you of your telex to me on Friday, 25 November 1977, regarding the reconstruction of the Stuart Highway from Port Augusta to Kulgera. 1 regard this telex as firmly committing your Government to: 
Commence funding for the Highway in the budget of 1978, with a guaranteed forward commitment of funds to complete the Highway in subsequent years. 
As a solemn promise that special funds would be produced in addition to South Australia's normal allocation for road reconstruction. 
A belated, but still very important recognition of the vital needs of the Northern Territory to have adequate road links with her southern neighbour. 
So I look forward to the Government honouring these promises, even though the one given by  Mr Sinclair  was given during an election compaign. The report by the Bureau will be of valuable assistance to the Government in its total planning. But I stress once again that this report is a part, but only a part, and that more input is needed. 
The plans that the Government has, as indicated by  Mr Nixon  and  Mr Sinclair,  are a good start. There is no need to delay. Longer term planning can get under way while we start with the early stages. I commend the Bureau for its report, although, as I have mentioned, its terms of reference were too limiting. I call on the Government to honour its promises and to get moving on this most important issue. Perhaps one of the first steps might be for the Government to receive the bipartisan deputation as requested, one consisting of members from the Northern Territory, from South Australia and the Federal sphere. 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that there is a six months delay in the onflow of cost of living increases to pensioners in the Northern Territory? If this is a fact, will the 
Minister not agree that this results in extreme hardship in the Northern Territory where the cost of living is the highest in Australia? Will the Minister undertake to see whether increases in pension payments can be expedited when they are granted? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. On 30 March the  Northern Territory News  ran a story reporting the arrival of a boatload of Vietnamese refugees who had come from camps in Thailand. The report stated that at least two other boats had left the camps, headed for Australia. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that more boats are on the way? Did a party of immigration officials go to Thailand to discourage refugees from coming illegally to Australia? What action does the Minister plan to take to prevent illegal immigrants from coming to Australia? How many Vietnamese have been brought to Australia as our contribution to the solution of the Vietnamese refugee problem? 
It is with some sense of sorrow and disappointment that I rise to make a small contribution in this debate as one who has been interested for some years in Aboriginal advancement. I think there will be a number of my friends in the Northern Territory, Aboriginal or otherwise, who will be disappointed at the legislation that has been introduced. There seems little doubt to me- I think it will appear so today- that the legislation which has been introduced is a let down for the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. I am very concerned about the effect the legislation might have on the Aboriginal people of Australia and the rest of the people of Australia. 
If we cast our minds back to the AddressinReply debate we will recall speakers from both sides of the chamber mentioning the disenchantment that the general public had in politics generally and the disillusionment that some members of the public felt about politicians. One could almost feel that the Government is moving in some sort of conscious way and making some conscious effort to disillusion the Aboriginal people with the processes of parliament. Members of the Joint Parliamentary Committee who visited Angurugu during last year's inquiry will remember that Nandjiwarra Amagula from that centre became quite excited at the end of one session. He got quite annoyed with us and said: 'Why do you people keep asking us the same questions? Why do you keep asking us what we want? We have told you what we want. Do you not trust us?' There was an implication in what he said of course that having known what the Aboriginal people wanted the Government would go ahead and do something about it; that we as parliamentarians having found out what the Aboriginal people wanted would then act upon the information which they had given to us. 
I imagine that the Aurukun people will be saying at the present time: 'Why bother asking us any questions since the questions that were asked were: What do you want? What sort of legislation would you like to see?' People from the other side of the chamber have indicated that when they went there as a back bench committee they gave certain undertakings to the Aboriginal people. I am reminded of Burramurra who is one of the Mala leaders of Yirrkala, a man who has just been honoured by the Queen with an M.B.E. He said to the Law Reform Commission: 'Politicians come here and say one thing and go back to the House and say something else'. Is this what we are trying to do? Is this what we want the Aboriginal people to think of Parliament? The traditional Aboriginal speaks the truth and expects other people to do the same. What a credibility we are building up for ourselves with this sort of legislation. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in her second reading speech on this Bill said: 
This Bill will guarantee the right of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island communities on Aboriginal and Island reserves in Queensland to manage their own affairs. 
I wonder whether it does? I wonder whether it simply shifts the choice of control from one area to another; it shifts the choice from State to Federal. If we read through the Bill we see that decisions made by the Aboriginal people will be subject to the Minister. Throughout the legislation they are asked to make certain decisions and then refer them to the Minister. If he likes these decisions he will allow them to be promulgated and to become laws. They must feel very much like boys and girls in school when a school council is set up and then a paternalistic school principal says: 'Well, you make the decisions and those I agree with I will let stand '. 
This attitude must have been reinforced by the address of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the National Aboriginal Conference, the body set up specifically to advise the Government, the 35 members of which have been drawn from all over Australia. They are outstanding people in their own field. The first piece of advice which this advisory group gave to the Government was of course rejected because it did not happen to suit the political convenience of the Government. 
It seems to me that three things are very necessary for any measure of self-management, and that is what this Bill is all about, although some honourable senators who spoke earlier in the debate seemed to lose contact with this. These three requirements I would suggest would be: control of entry to reserves, and we know what is meant by 'reserves' in this context; ownership of land; and control of finance. As far as I am concerned the first two requirements- that is the control of entry to reserves and the ownership of land- are absolutely vital. It is quite clear that the only weapon- if we want to use that word- that the Aboriginal has against mining, against interference and against the desecration of his land is the right to deny entry. It has been shown very clearly in the Northern Territory that this right of denying entry is a valuable weapon- I use the word again- because the Aboriginal has so little else. It might be worth mentioning at this stage that the Aboriginal has started to realise that his vote is also important and in future elections the vote may be used as some sort of weapon. I feel that it is unfortunate that the Aboriginal people at their meeting recently- not of the National Aboriginal Conference but of the Federal Council of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders- said that they were tired of both parties and that the only choice left to them was to have their own black politicians. This seems to me to be an unfortunate indictment of us as a Parliament. 
What does this Bill provide in relation to entry to Aboriginal land or Aboriginal reserves? Firstly, it says that those people who are allowed to enter under the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Act- that is, the Act of the Queensland Government- would still be allowed to enter. Section 9 (2) of the present Act allows any person to come in to provide a service. The Act then states that the Council may authorise entry to other people if they are not allowed to do so under section 9(2) of the Queensland Act. In other words it is allowing people as some sort of strange right to invite others into what I regard as the Aboriginal's home. The Bill makes no provision at all for the exclusion of people and no provision for putting people off a reserve. Not only does it make no provision for exclusion but there is a specific provision against exclusion. If the State Government gives people the right to enter, then the people who live on the reserve will have to accept this. They may not stop a person coming on and they may not put a person off if that person has done something with which the Aboriginal people do not agree. As I said before, the only choice seems to be between Federal control and State control. If that is not a case of Hobson's choice at best, I do not know what it is. 
The next suggestion that I made was that ownership of land- I am even prepared to accept at this stage control of land- be provided for. We have neither of those things. Where is the great vision we heard about when land rights were discussed in this place in the last session? Honourable senators will remember the speeches of the Ministers of how we in the Federal sphere were setting the pace for the rest of Australia to follow. Now what do we see? Clause 1 5 ( 1 ) of the Bill reads: 
The Commonwealth may make available to the Council for a Reserve to which this Act applies, or for a Community to which the Act applies, for the purpose of enabling the Council to perform its functions, any land acquired by or otherwise vested in the Commonwealth. 
Land may be made available, but only- here again, a further limitation- for the purpose of enabling the Council to carry out the functions which we as a Federal Government decide it ought to carry out. The functions of the Council are to be decided by this legislation. Again, we remove from the Aboriginal people the decisionmaking. Where is the self-management that the Bill speaks about if it specifies exactly what the Council should do? 
At present in the Northern Territory the Aboriginal land rights complementary and consequential legislation is being presented. I will read the opening paragraph of the second reading speech presented in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. It reads: 
The bid by Aboriginals for recognition of land rights probably first became public when the Yirrkala people presented a petition on bark to the Federal Parliament on 28 August, 1 963 in which they specified grievances against mining on their land and in which they sought recognition of their deep attachment to their land. In May 1970 they commenced an action in the Northern Territory Supreme Court against Nabalco and in April 1971  Mr Justice  Blackburn gave his decision on the case. They lost the case, but established quite clearly in the minds of most people their desire for recognition of a right in the land upon which they lived and in which they had had interests for thousands of years. 
So they established in the minds of most people their right to this land. At a conference of the Liberal and National Country Parties on 25 November 1975 this platform was spelt out. I quote from  Mr Everingham  's speech: 
In recognising land rights we will ensure: 
That traditional Aboriginal owners gain inalienable title to their land, 
That they also determine how their lands are to be used and preserved, 
That they have the same rights as any other owner to determine who enters their land whether the person is Aborigine or non-Aborigine, 
That sites significant according to Aboriginal tradition be preserved and protected. 
That is from the platform of the Liberal and National Country Parties promulgated in 1975. 1 do not have to read the Labor Party platform; I think it is pretty clear. But where is evidence of any recognition of rights for Queensland Aboriginals in the Bill that is in front of us at the moment? 'May make available ' is the only comment but, again, it is a suggestion that we may make available any bits that the Federal Government thinks the people ought to have. There is no suggestion- this must be very demoralising for the Aboriginal people- that land rights might come. There is nothing foreshadowed in this piece of legislation. 
The third area I suggested as being important was that of finance. Although the Bill does not mention it, certainly in the second reading speech and in Press statements the Minister has made it quite clear that finance will be made available. But the important point is that it will be made available to the Uniting Church if the subsidy is withdrawn by the State. I can find no indication by the Minister that moneys will be allocated to the Council to conduct its affairs. I cannot find any indication in the Minister's second reading speech or any statement that he has made publicly that the Council will make any decision on how the money will be spent. In other words where is the self-management that is spoken of in this Bill? One cannot help but say that one is disappointed with the Bill; one cannot help saying that one is disappointed with the Minister. I make no secret of the fact that as I have moved around the Territory in the last two years I have commented very favourable on the work being done by the Minister. I have spoken to Aboriginal groups and I have commended the work that he has been doing. What can I say when I go back? I will be told: 'He has let our brothers in Queensland down '. 
Perhaps many may see this as a naive and simplistic sort of statement from someone who is fairly new to the Parliament, but as one who was involved for quite some time in helping Aboriginals in a certain area to try to come forward and understand the way that we did things and to understand the parliamentary procedures, as one who helped them to set up their councils and their decision-making processes, I have been very disappointed. It is going to be very difficult to say to some of these people: 'We have to legislate '-the Federal Government, that isbecause the Government does not trust the State Government. It has to make certain statements in an Act because it cannot rely upon the State Government.' How can I tell the people again that we in the Opposition have to try to have amendments passed because we cannot rely on the Minister; we have to tie him tightly to make sure that he does not back down on any at the statements he has made? What a sorry situation it is for all of us on both sides of the chamber who have or claim to have the interests of the Aboriginal people at heart. I find that this is particularly so at the Federal level where there have been calls by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and from the ordinary backbenchers like myself for a bipartisan approach to the Aboriginal situation. An example of this 'enclosing' legislation is the situation where the Federal Government should amend clause 3 to prevent the Government of Queensland from de-gazetting the reserves, if there is such a word. We have to make statements in the Bill and we in the Opposition have to try to amend the Bill so that the Queensland Government will not frustrate the intention of the legislation.I certainly will not join in making the sort of comments which have been made about the Premier of Queensland but the public outbursts that the gentleman has made about the Government having to use the Army to bring about the situation that it seeks make this sort of legislation necessary. 
Even in relation to the Minister we have had to suggest numerous amendments to make sure that the Minister does not frustrate the wishes of the council. There is little point in the councils passing regulations if the Minister does not allow them to be processed. I understand it has happened that regulations which have come forward to be processed have been conveniently forgotten by the Minister so that they will not be implemented. So we have had to move an amendment to ensure that the by-laws made by the Aboriginal councils in pursuance of selfmanagement about which the Bill speaks will be adopted and that we will not have the paternalistic situation where the Minister says: 'No. I do not agree with that so I will not put it up'. 
On the matter of entry to land, which I regard as one of the key factors in any discussion of the situation at Aurukun, Mornington Island or any other place in Queensland, what could this legislation have done? I suggest that it could have followed the lead given by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Those of us who sat on the Joint Parliamentary Committee know that that legislation was based on the work of that Committee. At present in the Northern Territory- this is before the complementary and consequential legislation is passed- the Administrator, the Director of Aboriginal Affairs and welfare officers have the right and are authorised to issue permits. In this regard I read from the Chief Secretary's second reading speech where he said: 
Under the provisions of this Bill the major responsibility for the administration of the entry permit system will now be that of the land councils although the Federal Act and the provisions of this Bill will make it encumbent upon the land councils to ensure that wherever possible the traditional owners have been consulted before permits are issued or refused. 
We on this side and, I have no doubt, our colleagues in the Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory will be pushing for permits to be issued only by the traditional owners. Putting the matter in the hands of the Aboriginal council so that the Aboriginal people will make the decision after consultation with their fellows in the field is a great step forward. There was a recommendation in the Joint Parliamentary Committee's report, and it has been reflected in this legislation, that the people who need to go on to reserves- the policeman, the medical officer and such others- will be able to do so, but I stress that the responsibility still should be with the Aboriginal people. In Queensland it is quite obvious what could happen. The councils should have this right to say who is entitled to go on to their land and I stress the point that I implied earlier, that they must also have the right to say who must leave their land if a person is offending any traditional culture of the Aboriginal people. The Bill does not give this right and because it does not it is fair to say that it has failed the people of Queensland. 
I like the concept of the reserve as a home. It does not matter how big it is, it is the home of the Aboriginal people who should have the same rights that we have in our homes, such as the right to deny entry to people, be subject to the same obligation to allow certain people to come in. If this also is a difficult concept for honourable senators to accept let us think in terms of a large pastoral property. The Aurukun and Mornington Island settlements are like large pastoral properties. Let us have the same sort of rights that the owners of such properties have. I would not deny, and I have mentioned it in this place before when discussing land rights, that more is needed to be done in this regard because of the special situation of the Aboriginal people. If we could do that it would be a great step forward. I was very disturbed to find in the legislation that there is no provision for homeland centres or, as  Senator Martin  and one other honourable senator called them, outstations. As I understand it, the Bill is geared to the perpetuation of the old system that used to operate- the white dominated system- when what the white person thought was best is what happened. The decisions were made by the managers. 
We know that councils are not always representative and the Minister accepted this when he said in his second reading speech, and it is commented upon in the Bill itself, that some provision needs to be built into the legislation to ensure recognition of councils. Let us face the fact that if the councils had something to do and real decisions to make we would have effective councils. There are effective councils in the Northern Territory and I refuse point blank to believe that the Aboriginal people at Aurukun and Mornington Island cannot also have effective and meaningful councils. It would be an insult to suggest that they could not. If we are to have the old system which this Bill seems to perpetuate we will once again have, say, an education system introduced from outside and rather than it being an education system to meet the needs of the community it would be white dominated, probably not bilingual and with very little appreciation of the special needs of the community. It is generally agreed on both sides of this chamber that the homeland centres are a great step forward. Those of us involved and interested in this subject who have been to see these places know what a wonderful step forward it is. I listened to the honourable member for Leichhardt in the other place last night stress the advantages of the homeland centres. He made the point that people appeared to be happier and healthier living in the homeland centres rather than in the major centres. Although these homeland centres exist, and I draw attention to the comments made by  Senator Martin  who was very critical of the Queensland Government, the needs of the people are noi recognised. 
Clause 9 gives the Opposition cause for concern. The decision has been made that any authority or any person can go on to the reserve and make services available- any service- and one wonders just what sort of services are envisaged and what latitude this gives to people who move on to the reserves to provide services that perhaps are not wanted or which, in the words of those paternalists who have spoken already, are not in the best interests of the Aboriginal people. Of course, there will not be a challenge to the provision of some services. Obviously no one would challenge the fact that medical people need to enter whether they be doctors, nurses or health officers. There will be a need for them just as there will be a need for stock inspectors to enter when stock is running on the reserve. However, in respect of some services there will be a real challenge. I have mentioned already the provision of education. 
Welfare services also might not be required; they may not be appropriate. It is not that many years ago that the Government in its paternalistic way moved on to settlements and removed children from their parents because it thought this was in the best interests of the children. The same stringent regulations did not apply to the removal of the children of those parents as would apply to the removal of the children of people who sit in this place. Housing might be another case for challenge. Perhaps the Government could seek to provide housing that was not wanted, particularly if it was the wrong sort of housing. We have seen plenty of examples of this in the Northern Territory. I could show honourable senators classic examples of housing that had been selected by the white man for the use of Aborigines but which was not used because it was not appropriate to the Aboriginal people. I use this only as an illustration to make the point that there has been no attempt that I can see to place decision making in the hands of the Aboriginal people where it belongs. If everyone was fair dinkum there would be no worry but this is challenged. It is said the State governments might not be dinkum and that even some members of Parliament might not be dinkum. So the Aboriginal people must be protected. 
On a television program last evening the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs claimed that the Bill was not paternalistic. If this Bill is not paternalistic the Minister and I use vastly different definitions of paternalism. There would be a good deal of agreement on both sides of this chamber that the Bill is paternalistic. I am not denying that some people think that we ought to be paternalistic. The last speaker suggested that an element of paternalism was necessary. I do not believe in paternalism, and if we place the decision making in the hands of the Aboriginal people we will have far more effective self-management, which is what the Bill is all about. 
One thing in particular that is puzzling me about the Bill is that it is not in keeping with the Northern Territory legislation. Obviously different areas are involved but I read this Bill and as I look at the Northern Territory legislation, there appears to be a different philosophy underlying each. I believe that the philosophy should be the same for the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory as it is for the people in Queensland. Obviously this would be in keeping with the platforms of both parties. I have read out the platform of the Government and I have clearly indicated that the platform of the Labor Party is along the same lines of non-paternalism. This Bill could have done so much and yet it appears to me to have achieved so little 
The result of a division this afternoon indicates that the Government is not prepared to let the Aboriginal people have a say. It is not prepared to allow the Aboriginal people to look at the Bill and make comments. I assume that the amendment we are proposing will not receive support since a motion proposed by an honourable senator on the Government side did not get support. This is unfortunate but I suppose that we have to accept the fact. So I appeal to honourable senators on both sides of the chamber to look very carefully at the amendments in the committee stage. Since we are asked to be bi-partisan, and I have mentioned this word before- both the Minister and the Prime Minister have asked this- can we for once forget the nonsense about losing face if we accept an amendment from the other side of the House? 
There are three areas which are most important. I will not dwell on them because later speakers, when they present the amendments, will give full details. The first is, as I have indicated, the right to control entry. This control is absolutely essential. I have already mentioned the concept of the home, but it is much more than this. Speakers from the other side of the chamber have also mentioned this. There must be a right to disallow entry; a right to expel people if necessary. This will give the councils some clout against those who would destroy their culture. Most importantly, as a first step it provides some sort of decision-making on this matter of entry. If the Government is prepared to accept the amendment on the right of entry it will indicate that it has accepted the fact that the Aboriginal people have some sort of maturity, that it is prepared to recognise this and to give them some decisions to make. 
We must pass amendments which will prevent the Queensland State Government from frustrating the legislation and to make sure that it will not take steps to make it redundant. The simple step that will be suggested in the amendment is to tie the Queensland legislation to 31 March. This is sensible and I cannot find any reason for disagreement from Government senators. However,  Senator Gietzelt  will elaborate on this later. We can strengthen decisions made by councils by requiring the by-laws to be tabled on the first day after receipt. Let the Parliament decide, not the Executive. I refer back to the AddressinReply debate and to those people who spoke strongly in criticism of the power of the Executive. Let them now come forward and say: 'Let us take the power away from the Executive '-in this case the Minister- 'and place it in the Parliament'. 
Finally, as one who has been involved in Aboriginal work for many years, I make a plea to those who say they are interested, to those who say they are concerned, to support the amendments which we will be putting forward. We in the Northern Territory have often had cause to complain- I have certainly done so in this place- at the treatment we have received from the Federal Government. But the Aborigines in the Northern Territory would be horrified at this legislation. They would see it as an extremely retrograde step. Those honourable senators who believe that the Aboriginal people have a right to be involved in their own future, have a right to decision-making that affects them, and those who believe that the Aboriginal people are equal citizens, must consider these amendments and give them some support. This must be the case with at least the major amendments, those controlling the activities of the State Government in Queensland, and those giving right of entry to people. 
The platforms of both parties call for this. Let us honour our platforms. Self-management is what the Bill is all about. Self-management means more than choosing which master one wishes to serve. I plead with the Government to give Aboriginals a real choice, to let them be involved, because after all, selfmanagementand that is what we are talking about- is involvement, and involvement is what we are all about with this Bill. 
-I seek leave to move a motion. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
In doing so, may I make one or two comments. It is good to see that the report is coming through. It will be known that a requirement of the trust deed is to have a report presented to Parliament each month. It is essential that Parliament have this report each month to keep track of the activities of the Trust. It might be recalled that last year the Trust did not present monthly reports and the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  was kind enough, after a question I put to him, to make sure that it was done. 
I remind the Senate of a couple of features which are very disturbing. I refer to the fact that there was an attempt to close the Fund in September 1 976. The Trust members decided at that time that they had met all the needs which existed and all the needs which they thought would exist in the future. In other words, they thought that they had satisfied the requirements of the trustee. So they went through the procedures of winding up. The Senate will understand that the deed, being a legal document, has certain requirements. We thought that we had met these. 
At that time, in 1976, a local politician, a member of the Legislative Assembly, did not agree with the Trust and criticised the Trust members for what they had done. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann),  as  Chairman  of the Trust, then reopened the Trust. Certain statements were made, applications were called again, and we sought information from the Crown Law Department and later from the Supreme Court on how we should wind up the Fund. That was 15 months ago, and since that time nothing has happened. Honourable senators can imagine what a great embarrassment this was to the trustees, who worked very hard to distribute the money which had been most generously donated by people throughout Australia. At that time it was found that we had to appoint more Trust members because some had retired. I think that if the Trust goes on for much longer we shall have to have another batch come in to fill the positions of a further lot of trustees who will have moved away from the Territory. 
It is embarrassing also to the organisation for the spastics, which was given a sum of money as part of the winding up procedures. That organisation went ahead with plans for a spastic centre and then found that it did not have that money. It was put into a very embarrassing situation. It is embarrassing also for the people of Darwin, who are asked questions by people down south about what happened to the money which they gave. I am afraid it could also be very embarrassing for the Minister when on 1 July the Department of the Northern Territory no longer exists and the Minister as Minister for the Northern Territory will not be Chairman of the Trust Fund. 
I ask the Minister whether he will take steps to see whether he can hasten a ruling from the Supreme Court. I know that this is a very difficult situation, but I ask him to try to get some information from the Supreme Court so that the Fund can be wound up. The trustees must be called together. Certain procedures must be gone through so that the Fund can be wound up. I ask the Minister to take very positive steps on this matter. I have to be fairly critical and say that nothing has been done for 15 months. 
The original intention was to produce a full report of the Trust's activities which might work as a manual for future disaster organisations. Following what I have said just now, one wonders whether the report would be of great value. It is only fair to say that in the early stages of the Trust Fund a lot of good work was done. It is fair to say also that even if we take note only of some of the deficiencies in the winding up procedures the report could be extremely valuable. I hope that this will be done. It is most important that this matter is finalised in the very near future. I call upon the Minister to take action. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I wish to be associated with the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  and other honourable senators in their commendation of the work done by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. It will be understood, I think, that I have a particular interest in this matter since I was in Darwin during the cyclone and remained in Darwin and was involved in that wonderful sociological experience which followed the cyclone. In addition, I was a member of two citizens ' committees set up by the Government, the first led by  Mr Ian  Barker, Q.C., and the second led by  Dr Reid.  I join with  Senator Kilgariff  who last night praised the work of those associated with the Commission. He made particular reference to  Dr Patterson  and  Mr Clem  Jones. It is very gratifying to see a Government supporter commending the work of Labor Ministers and the work of  Mr Clem  Jones who was a Labor mayor at the time. I am completely convinced that  Senator Kilgariff  was sincere in his remarks and I, and I am sure, all other members of the Labor Party will appreciate the comments he made. 
I take this opportunity to remind the Senate and the public, particularly those in Darwin, of some of the actions taken at the time of the cyclone. Memory is a strange thing. It tends to block out those things which it finds distasteful, as well as those things which were unpleasant to us at the time. It will block out any recollections of more pleasurable experiences. I draw attention to the work of the Labor Government of the time, the departments which were involved, the officers of those departments and people generally. As other honourable senators have done, I pay special attention to the work done by the former Minister for Northern Australia,  Dr Rex  Patterson. I would not exclude, of course, many other members of the Labor Ministry and the Labor Party generally. I commend  Senator Georges,  who was the first Labor parliamentarian in the area after the cyclone. He contributed a great deal to assist, particularly in the work of evacuation. The Prime Minister of the day arrived shortly afterwards and his Ministers made visits within the first three or four days. 
I mention the wonderful spirit of co-operation that existed at that time in Darwin and interstate. The Minister for Science in his statement made some reference to this spirit. Full support was given to any activity which was suggested. I was very pleased to note in this morning's  Canberra Times  that  Dr Stack  also made mention of this situation. The report states: 
We are still deeply conscious of the debt that we owe to all Australians for the way they came to our aid after this northern gateway was wiped out ',  Dr Stack  said. 
It transcended all political considerations and showed that Australians can work toward national objectives if given the right leadership. ' 
I think it is fair to say that the right sort of leadership was given at that time. I have spoken previously in this place of the work done by voluntary agencies. Today I want to contain my remarks and speak of the work of the Government and its departments. I shall mention some of the special activities carried out at that time, since they deserve special mention. 
The first thing I comment on is the evacuation. There was some degree of criticism of the evacuation later on. After all, hindsight is a wonderful thing and, looking back on the situation, we are able to make all sorts of decisions. The fear of disease was such that the decision was made to move people out. This was a massive operation in which the civil airlines and the Royal Australian Air Force co-operated. The local committees set up in Darwin handled the situation at the local end and the Federal Government and its departments organised the arrival of the evacuees in the States. The speed at which the city was cleaned up after the cyclone is certainly worthy of mention. The organisation which was carried out by the Department of Housing and Construction was magnificent. People were brought in from Queensland and from some other places to restore the electricity supplies and they did wonderful work. The essence of what I am saying is that the operation was organised quickly and carried out quickly. The same comment applies to the emergency food and shelter which was arranged by the local committee with government support. In fact, it is fair to say that we had hardly finished eating our Christmas turkey when we were able to move into shelter and have food provided for us. 
As well as commenting on some of the small areas I shall comment on some of the structures which were established by the Federal Labor Government. Also I shall make some comment on the involvement of Government departments. There was a high degree of involvement and a lot of good work was done. As we are speaking specifically about the Darwin Reconstruction Commission I shall obviously mention that body. The Minister commented in his speech that the Darwin Reconstruction Commission was established by 28 February. Honourable senators will recall that the cyclone occurred on 24 December. The Commission immediately set to work on planning the new Darwin. Under the guidance of  Dr Patterson  it produced not one but several alternative plans. At this early stage the people of Darwin, whether they were living in Darwin or outside, were involved in assisting in the replanning work. 
An organisation was set up to reflect public opinion and I have already commented on that. It was known by two different names but was basically a citizens' committee. The first committee was organised very quickly under the chairmanship of Ian Barker and, a little later, a second, more elaborate type of organisation, was set up by  Dr Reed.  This organisation was funded by the Government and given every assistance. It is fair to say that many members of that committee, of which I was one, travelled interstate to get the views of people living in camps in the States. I used what was called the R and R fare which the Government gave to everyone who was in Darwin at the time of the cyclone to travel to Western Australia to find out from people living in camps in Western Australia what they thought of the new plans for Darwin. Many people used the fares to go away on holidays. I make the point that this was involvement of the people of Darwin. I have to compare this situation, unfortunately, with the situation which exists at the moment. A comparatively small alteration has been suggested to the town plan and it is very difficult for people of Darwin either to see the plan or to make recommendations about it. The Minister has already been kind enough to give me some material on this matter in response to a question I raised. 
The point I am making in regard to the DRC is that the operation was organised with understanding and sympathy. Labour was brought from the south so that local people would be free to build homes for those whose homes were not being built by the DRC. The Minister has mentioned the special shipping arrangements which were made so that material could be brought to Darwin. Credit must go to  Mr Finger  who was the manager of the DRC at that time. I have to agree with the Minister and I commend the almost military logistics of the organisation. The temporary accommodation which was provided filled an urgent need. There were many problems. If the  Patris  had not been in the harbour at the time we would have been in extreme difficulty.  Senator Kilgariff  in his comments last night drew attention to the problems faced by building firms in Darwin at present because they have little work to do now that the DRC has completed its operations. I suggested that this situation was complicated by cuts in government expenditure. Last night  Senator Kilgariff  made a special call for the Government to recognise the problems faced by the building industry. I call on the Government, as I have done many times before in this place, to increase government spending in the Northern Territory as assisting the building industry will have an effect on the whole economy. 
The next thing I mention is the Darwin Disaster Welfare Organisation which was established and funded by the Government. This organisation was set up, with the sort of understanding that I mentioned earlier, to assist those people who might have suffered psychologically as a result of the turmoil which followed the cyclone. 
As  Dr Patterson  said at the time, its purpose was basically to protect the individual against bureaucracy. I do not like the use of such a word because it separates 'them' and 'us', but I think it explains what  Dr Patterson  had in mind. He saw a need for people to be protected against too sudden a change and for people to be assisted in the transition period. The voluntary group cooperated magnificently in the exercise involving the Darwin Disaster Welfare Organisation. The work of  Mr Harry  Giese, who was  chairman  of the group, and of  Mr Norman,  who was the executive director, must also be mentioned. I have mentioned in the chamber before the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund. This Fund was set up and financial assistance was given to it. It is to the credit of the Government that none of the money contributed by the people of Australia was spent in administration. The Government carried the whole of the processing of the applications and every cent which was contributed to the Fund was distributed by it. I mention that yesterday it was necessary for me to raise the point that we need to expedite the winding up of the Fund. I would like to see the Minister take some action on that matter now. 
The Department of Repatriation- I see  Senator Wheeldon,  who was Minister for Repatriation and Compensation is with us at the moment- made a magnificent contribution by providing 50 per cent of all uninsured property losses and setting up within the Department an organisation to handle and process the claims. Small businesses were not forgotten. A committee was set up to assist small business people to become re-established. Not only were low interest loans provided, but also people were given assistance to set up their businesses again. The Housing Trust has been mentioned before in this place. Low interest loans were given to enable people to rebuild. Unfortunately, some problems have occurred since 1975, but the Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Adermann,  has stepped in and given valuable assistance by providing more money and further staff when staff was short. Honourable senators may recall that as a result of the first cuts in staffing the Housing Trust almost wound down. 
The Department of Defence played its part also. Aeroplanes were made available for evacuation, ships were made available for transport and the Army and the Navy must get special mention for the wonderful work they did in helping to clean up Darwin after the cyclone. The Department of Housing and Construction gave assistance to the Commission in its early stages and also gave a lot of help to people who were rebuilding. I recall a rather amusing incident. I left for work one morning and came home to find a new roof on my home. It had been supplied by the Department of Housing and Construction at no cost to myself. No doubt I have omitted to mention some departments. I apologise for that. Hopefully, at a later stage I will be able to develop the theme of the action taken by the Labor Government and of the magnificent support given by people in the Territory and interstate. 
I have mentioned already that the period after the cyclone would provide great material for a psychological study. Much has been written about that period but not all of it is authentic. There have been some good contributions and some that are less so. I hope to see a full study undertaken before all the material is completely cold. At the time of the cyclone and just after, people said: 'Thank God for a Labor government ', feeling that some other government might not have reacted with the same generosity, the same sympathy and the same understanding. I will not debate that proposition at this point. I commend the work done over the years by the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, its chairman and by the staff who were employed during this operation. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) When was a cheque sent to the Northern Territory Executive to cover the functions transferred to the Territory on 1 January 1978. 
Will the Minister provide a schedule showing the allocations to each of the functions transferred. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. On Thursday, 13 April,  Senator McAuliffe,  on my behalf, asked the Minister what action would be taken by the Government to provide funds so that staff could be employed to operate the school dental clinics in Darwin which were standing idle because of lack of staff. 
The Minister undertook to seek a reply from the Minister for Health whom she represents in this chamber. Can the Minister now provide the Senate with any information on this important matter? 
I seek the indulgence of the Senate to raise what I feel is a very important issue. In the transfer of powers from the Federal Government to the Northern Territory one must expect that there will be some problems. It is an unusual situation and, of course, we have little precedence to guide us. It is about one of these problems that I wish to speak tonight. I believe that the Federal Government has a responsibility to help to resolve any of the problems that arise in this situation. I feel that it has a responsibility to what one might call the fledgling government of the Northern Territory- the Legislative Assembly- to assist it wherever it can with its expertise. The Federal Government has a responsibility also to individuals in the Northern Territory, particularly those individuals whom its departments have recruited over the past few years. Some of the individuals may suffer because of the actions of the transfer. 
The matter I wish to raise tonight appears to be a case where an individual has suffered. An attempt has been made to resolve the situation locally. I am not raising it here without having done some work on it in the Northern Territory. 
The Police Association has worked on this matter and representations have been made. But we have not been successful. I am raising the matter here tonight in the hope that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  may be able to give some assistance as regards the responsibility that I see the Federal Government having in the matter. 
Perhaps the best way to illustrate what I am trying to come to is to state the case of a particular individual. Others may be similarly affected, but I shall cite the case of only one person. I refer to the case of a constable who was formerly in the traffic section of the Northern Territory Police. He was recruited in 1974 and in 1975 moved, at his own request, to the traffic section. In August 1976 he was involved in a high speed emergency call which resulted in an accident. He was a passenger in the car involved and at the time appeared to suffer no injuries. Perhaps I should say that there were no visible injuries because a little later in that year- in October 1976- he found that he was getting recurrent headaches and pains in the neck and had suffered a loss of hearing. He then sought treatment from the Darwin Hospital and he was given some therapy for his problem. 
By mid- 1977 he was instructed to attend the National Acoustics Laboratory. I have used the word 'instructed' carefully because he was told to do so by one of his senior officers. As a result of the tests made by the National Acoustics Laboratory, he was referred to the ear, nose and throat specialist at the Darwin Hospital. In September 1977 he was put on sick leave by the specialist. In November of the same year he was referred to the Commonwealth Medical Officer. Due to his condition- that is, the loss of hearing- he was told that he was to be pensioned out of the Police Force. He was put on sick leave and stayed on sick leave until 20 December 1977. On 20 December he was instructed by the Commissioner of the Northern Territory Public Service that he was to transfer to a position of Clerical Assistant, Grade 1 . 
Let us look at the result of this transfer to the position of Clerical Assistant, Grade 1 from his former position as a constable with the Police Force. Firstly, he lost the job that he wanted. He had joined the Police Force and, at his own request, had been put in the traffic section where he wanted to serve. He was moved to a job which had no appeal to him. It was one which he did not like and which was not even in the same department. As a matter of fact, it involved putting plastic covers on library books- a job which had no appeal to him. He suffered a drop in salary from $10,195 to $7,550-a loss of over $2,500. He suffered the loss of a rent subsidy and also the loss of a subsidy for sewerage, water and garbage, a subsidy to which members of the Police Force in the Northern Territory are entitled. Obviously, having moved out of the Police Force, he was not entitled to be supplied with a uniform. Also he received no overtime or penalty rates. He claims, and I can understand his feeling in this regard, to have lost a certain amount of status. It is certainly not for me to cast aspersions on the status of Clerical Assistants, Grade 1, but this man personally felt the move to this position was a loss of status. 
The outcome of the situation was that he resigned from the Public Service and left Darwin. As I have said, the job had no appeal to him. He found it difficult to live on his reduced salary. Whilst obviously one can say that other clerical assistants manage to live on their salaries and therefore he ought to be able to manage, I think many of us would understand that, having dropped $2,500 in salary plus these additional penalty and overtime rates as well as losing the provision of a uniform and the subsidies and so on, it would have been very difficult for him to move down the salary scale. At the time he made his complaint he was offered a 50 per cent pension, but to the present time he has not received it. At present he is unable to find work because of his loss of hearing. So we have the situation where he has no work, no pension and no compensation. One of the disturbing features of this case to me is that the man has been penalised for an injury which occurred while he was at work. He went out, of necessity, on a high speed emergency call, he had an accident and he is being punished for it. 
-My understanding of the situation is that the ear, nose and throat specialist attributed the loss of hearing to the accident. It seems to me that if this is the case, an unfortunate precedent has been set. I wonder whether policemen who feel that they are going to lose their job if they have an accident and become incapacitated will decline to undertake dangerous activity. Are we going to have the farcical situation of a police officer saying: 'No, I will not do that in case I get hurt. I will not enter into that situation in case I am shot at. I will not get into the car in case I have an accident'? Of course that would be a completely untenable situation. 
Another disturbing situation seems to my to be the inappropriateness of police officers being part of the ordinary Public Service. It seems to me that special demands are made of police officers and therefore special conditions ought to apply to them. I ask the Minister to look at the case of the individual I have mentioned and to decide whether he has been unfairly treated. That is the first point. I ask him also to look at the Police Administration Ordinance to see whether the terms of that ordinance are in line with provisions in the States. Obviously we want in the Northern Territory the same provisions as exist in the States. He might then consider the present situation to see whether the Police Force can operate effectively if there is no compensation in these cases or if as a result of an accident a member of the force can be dismissed or reduced in salary. I think it is most important that we look at that and, while doing so, look also at the powers of the Commissioner of the Northern Territory Public Service because he would appear to have more power than other public service commissioners. It seems incredible that no compensation is available, but it appears that that is so. It appears that this man has received no compensation for what was a traumatic thing, the loss of hearing. It seems to me that we must get the best possible recruits in the Northern Territory, or in other police forces, but I am concerned only about this one at present. Obviously we cannot expect people to move into the service if the conditions which I have described tonight exist. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education. The Schools Commission, in its report for the triennium 1979-81, suggested that the opportunity now exists for the Northern Territory to plan an educational organisation which will be appropriate to both present and future needs of students in the Territory. The Commission indicated that it would be willing to assist in studying and defining the suitability of available options. I ask whether the Commission has been asked to carry out studies in the Northern Territory to assist in structuring an appropriate education organisation. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health been drawn to comments made by Special Magistrate Tom Pauling, as reported in the Northern Territory  News  of 9 May under the heading: 'It's inhuman, says Coroner'.  Mr Pauling  drew attention to the fact that the psychiatric ward at the Darwin Hospital has not reopened due to a shortage of staff caused by staff ceilings. Will the Minister indicate what action is to be taken in the light of this further evidence of a lack of health services in the Northern Territory brought about by a shortage of staff? 
I rise to support the Opposition on the matter of public importance submitted for discussion by my colleague  Senator Keeffe.  There is no real doubt about the failure of the Government to honour its obligations, and nothing has been said so far from honourable senators opposite to suggest otherwise. In fact some on the Government side, including the last  speaker, Senator Bonner,  said that they supported the proposition. The Opposition is drawing attention to the situation and, despite what the previous  speaker  said, I think it is valuable that we do so. The matter must be drawn to the attention of the people of Australia. I intend to spend a few minutes drawing attention to some of the cultural factors which I believe increase the enormity of the crime, if I may call it that. 
The Aboriginal people at Aurukun and Mornington Island- the Wikmunken people, the Lardil people and the Bentick people- are in a particularly difficult situation, as are other people who have been under mission influence for some time. I am not denying the contribution made by the mission people. They have done some wonderful work. They have made mistakes but I have a great deal of respect for the work which they have done. In fact a former Director of Social Welfare,  Mr Giese,  made the comment that in the Northern Territory if it had not been for the mission people the Aboriginal race would have died out. The Aboriginal people are in certain difficulties as a result of having been exposed to mission influence. They find it hard to understand the actions of some people. They find it hard because of the force of their own tradition, the cultural mores which they have adopted and the patterns of behaviour which they have developed over the years. These have been reinforced by the mission influence. They have been taught to tell the truth and to keep their word, which is the normal Christian doctrine. So the result at present is that the people find it very difficult to understand actions, and we have to appreciate their mores and their attitudes. 
The first of these is that a man tells the truth and if a man speaks his clansmen will believe what he says. This is in distinct contrast to our own society. I do not have to elaborate on that. To that attitude is tied the thought that the man keeps his word; that if he gives his word, he keeps it. The second major point is that once a decision has been made it is kept, and one does not have to go back to people time and time again and ask them what are their views. I have raised the situation of Nandjiwarra Amagula who criticised us for doing this. I wonder what the Northern Land Council thinks about the present exercise with the four members of the National Country Party once again asking it what it wants in terms of the present Bills. The third factor is that law is sacred and unchanging. I read a comment made by Burramarra from Elcho Island, who is one of the clan leaders: 
Aboriginal tribal law is one and the same Tor all  yolnu  people. We keep it whole as one law and no Aboriginal person will try to conquer, overcome or change that law. 
They believe that the law of the white man should be the same, and that it should be obeyed and not circumvented. The fourth factor is that the lawman, an elder, is looked up to. Elkin was one of the first to comment on this in his book  Men Of High Degree.  The people of Aurukun and Mornington Island and other Aboriginal people believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  by their very positions, are men of high degree and should be trusted and honoured. They find it extremely difficult when they have to accept that their idols have feet of clay. We do not have this difficulty. We have come to accept duplicity in some people. I believe that the Minister has lost a good deal of face and I think it is most unfortunate that this has happened. I have stressed this point previously. 
The comment I made on the law leads to one of our own precepts. By 'our own' I mean that it is a white precept. It is that justice must not only be done but must be seen to be done. I draw attention to the comments made in the Melbourne  Age  of 8 May under the heading 'Blacks lose faith in PM'. The article reports a letter written by the people of Aurukun to the Prime Minister as follows: 
 We have lost faith in you ', they said. 
Consultation with us has been a joke'. 
In yesterday's open letter, the Aurukun leaders say: 'We came away totally disillusioned with you and your Government, as an ally'. 
It is clear what the people of Aurukun think. Why do they think like this? Why have they lost faith? What is their objection to the comments that have been made? The obligations are there and the promises have been made. It is quite clear that the policy of this Government is one of self-management, self-determination and land rights. The Queensland people will see this policy. They will see what has been done in the Northern Territory where the Federal Government decided to be a pacesetter. If nothing had been said, if the Prime Minister or the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs had done nothing more than to simply state their policy statements and if the people had followed what happened in the Northern Territory, they could have assessed the Federal Government's obligation to the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. But, of course, they do not have to rely on this. There are other statements which reinforce this. Other people have quoted national newspapers. Being parochial I will quote from the Northern Territory  News  of 6 April. 
It is an excellent paper. The Northern Territory  News  comments: 
The Prime Minister said that while there may be a 'mild degree of disputation' between the Commonwealth and Queensland all Australians needed to concern themselves with the welfare of the Aboriginal people. 
Later, the article states: 
The Commonwealth supported the people of Aurukun in their litigation over the mining agreement which was taken to the Privy Council in line with decisions made by the Government in 1976. 
On 10 April the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs made a comment. The Northern Territory  News  of that date states: 
The Aboriginal Affairs Minister,  Mr Viner,  today hinted at strong Federal action to finalise the Queensland Aboriginal reserves issue. 
He said the Commonwealth recognised its constitutional obligations, ' and we expect to. be in a position to be able to fulfill them'. 
But from the Commonwealth's point of view, looking at its constitutional obligations, we have to decide on the basis of the work that's been done over the weekend- the various options that will be put before Cabinet- just what ought to be done to bring the matter to finality, and finality in the interests of the people ', he said. 
Of course, he was referring to the discussions with the Queensland Government which  Mr Viner  went to Queensland to have. What have people had to say about the legislation that was drawn up as a result of those discussions? I think the first comment ought to come from the Uniting Church in Australia. I will read part of a letter from Reverend Brown to Synod officers, which states: 
Under that agreement - 
That is, the agreement between the Prime Minister and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs- the Queensland Government was to grant a lease of the former reserves to the two communities, and draft legislation to enable the two communities to manage their own affairs as shires. The agreement also provided for the establishment of an advisory committee for each of the communities. 
Later, the letter states: 
Our worst fears have been more than fulfilled. The legislation provides not for 'self-management', but for management and control by the Queensland Government. It is as far from self-management as East from West. It has the same effect as if we had handed over to  Mr Porter  on March 3 1. If passed, it will result in the total destruction of the two communities. It is in irreconciliable conflict with the 'selfmanagement'. 
That is the legislation that was agreed to by the Federal Government. It is quite obvious that Government supporters, from what was said by  Senator Bonner  this morning in drawing attention to support that he is receiving from his colleagues, do not agree either. I understand that  Senator Bonner  rejects 2 1 of the 36 clauses of the legislation. Yet in the Melbourne  Age  yesterday the Minister is reported to have said: 
We have sought to gain substantial benefits for them - 
That is, the Aurukun people- against the position they were faced with when Queensland announced it would take over the management of the two reserves from the Uniting Church. 
In other words the Government has tried to do this and it has failed. This has been clearly documented by the evidence which has been presented in the media and by what was said this morning. It is a clear case of a failure to honour an expressed obligation. What makes it worse, of course, is the fact that this failure is based upon political considerations. The decisions were taken for political reasons and not for the high flown comments that were made by the Prime Minister and the Minister earlier. 
The question, of course, is: Could the Government have done anything? Clearly, the answer is yes. This was referred to by  Senator Cavanagh.  The first step would have been to acquire the land.  Senator Cavanagh  raised the question of whether this is constitutionally possible. Many people believe it to be so and I am certainly of that opinion.  Senator Cavanagh  made the point that even if we do not believe it is so, we ought to go ahead and try it and be challenged afterwards. Let us face it: It would not be the first time we have done this. If we have the constitutional right, what are the other problems? I would say that there are none. At current usage the property would not cost a great deal. I refer here to a report which states: 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs in a submission to the Minister estimated the acquisition costs of the reserves  . . would be $211,964 for Aurukun and $63,469 for Mornington Island . . . 
Surely that is a small price to pay for the credibility of this Government. Surely it is a small price to pay for the welfare of the Aboriginal people. Yet did this happen? Not at all, and the following reason is given: 
However, the Prime Minister said to the Aurukun delegation on Thursday, 4 May, 1978, that 'money was not a consideration'. The Prime Minister simply lacks the fortitude to honour his commitments in the face of oppositin from the National Party. 
It is quite obvious that the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island do not want Queensland control for the same reason as the Northern Territory people do not want it. The Northern Territory people have looked at the record of the Liberal-National Country Party in the Northern Territory and they are not particularly happy. The Queensland people have looked, as  Senator Bonner  has looked, at the record of the Queensland Parliament and they are not particularly happy either. So they do not trust the Queensland Parliament. They do not want control by that Government and they do not want the legislation because it gives extraordinary powers to Queensland officials. Let me give the example which has been mentioned in the other place. 
Just how do these extraordinary powers affect Aborigines? Barry Nakyoungwokker, the vicechairman of the Aurukun Council who is in Canberra at the moment, experienced the extent of the powers in 1970. Over a number of years Barry had managed to save $1,000 which he kept in his Queensland bank account. He decided to use the money to build himself a house, so he bought building materials and organised a team of kinsmen to give its assistance free to help him build his house. When the house was completed he applied to the Queensland Department to withdraw his savings. Of course that is significant; he had to apply to the Department to be allowed to withdraw his own savings- but let us not enter into that in the short time available- so that he could pay off his debts. The Director of the Department replied pointing out that the department manual provided that no purchase of an unusual nature such as houses, motor cars, horses, boats et cetera were to be made without reference to the office, reporting the full facts, and if the items purchased were second hand, an independent valuation of the items to be purchased had to be forwarded, and withheld Barry's savings. We must remind ourselves of the obligations and promises that have been made. The obligations that were made in 1967 are clear. The promises that were made were for self-management, self-determination and land rights. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was reminding the Senate of the Government's obligations and promises in this matter. I drew attention to the fact that the obligations and the promises were in three areas -self-management, self-determination and land rights. The Government stands condemned on all three counts as they relate to Aurukun and Mornington Island. The Government has broken faith with the Aboriginal people. It is no secret that I believe that land rights is the key issue in this matter as it is the key issue in a number of other matters dealing with Aboriginal people. There is no doubt that the Minister believes this also. Without quoting, I simply refer honourable senators to the speeches made in this place and in other places at the time the land rights legislation was introduced. It is clear what could have been done. The Government has chosen not to do it. I strongly believe that honest people who have a feeling not only for Aboriginal people but also for the principles of democratic government must support the proposition that the Government has failed to honour its expressed obligations to the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
I am concerned to make a contribution in this debate because of the particular interest which this Bill has to me as a senator from the Northern Territory. I think I have made the point in this place on many occasions that I see land rights as being vital to the Aboriginal people. This point has been stressed in a number of debates and was mentioned again during the discussion of the matter of public importance this morning. I am concerned that the Bill might weaken the principal Act. The principal Act that was passed last year, in my view, presented the absolute minimum in provisions. The Labor Party presented a number of amendments to try to express the view of the Aboriginal people. It is interesting to note that the Aboriginal people, both in the Northern Territory and in Queensland, have recognised the fact that the Labor Party was trying to put their view. I must stress strongly that I deplore any action which will weaken the principal Act. 
The Government is committed to land rights. This point was made this morning. 1 remind honourable senators of some of the emotional speeches made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and some honourable senators in the debate on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. I remind honourable senators of the public statements and statements to the land councils that have been made over the last two years by the Minister and of the speeches that have been made on the campaign trail, all supporting the proposition of land rights. But I stress that it should be full land rights not land rights when it suits the Government. We must avoid the concept and must be seen to avoid the concept of giving away or granting land that nobody else wants. 
I will not canvass the material that I presented before in the land rights debate and in other debates but I would like to read an extract from Land Rights Discussions- Milingimbi and Nan.galala' which was reported by Beulah Lowe. I have mentioned Beulah Lowe before, the linguist who has worked for many years in the Northern Territory. Under the heading 'Re Land-Ownership' she reports: 
The concept of land-ownership of Aborigines is different from that held by Europeans. Certain territory is regarded as belonging to a clan, who have received it from their fathers, fathers' fathers and fathers' fathers' fathers, all of whom belong to the same clan. This does not mean, however, that this particular clan has exclusive rights to their clan territory. Even though the members of this clan are regarded as the land owners, there are other clans who also have certain rights over the land. These are mainly those clans to whom the land stands in the relationship of mother ( opposite moiety), mother's mother (same moiety but a different clan) and mother's mother's mother (opposite moiety). This relationship is very close. 
Because of this, the clan owners are not the only ones who are able to make decisions regarding land and they are not the only ones who should receive any benefits accruing from the land (e.g. mining royalties). They are certainly regarded as being in charge of the land (if they are adult males), but if they were to make a decision regarding the land which the other clans did not agree with, their decision could be overruled. 
So I reiterate the point which has been made by  Senator Bonner  already that there is a clear indication that the Aborigines fully understand the situation regarding land rights, and they are well aware- if I can use that phrase- of what they believe. They also believe that their ideas have been accepted by the Government. They have seen the establishment of land councils; they have seen the appointment of land trusts; they have seen the appointment of the Land Commissioner. They believe that the land that they justly claim is theirs will in due course be granted to them. They also believe that they have the control over the land which is theirs. This Bill, as I read it, removes that right, lt removes the power of the Aborigines to decline agreement with the director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service. It is clear that the land can be vested in the Director if it suits the Government. As far as I am concerned and as far as the Aboriginal people are concerned, this is completely objectionable and opposed to the principles of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. Later in the proceedings the Opposition will move an amendment to try to rectify this objection. 
Another complaint that I have about the Bill is that it puts different obligations on the mining companies and on members of the land council in the matters of secrecy. I cannot see how this can possibly be justified. It will certainly be rationalised, but I cannot see how it could possibly be justified. We will move an amendment on this matter also. I am pleased to see that the Act will retain control in the hands of the Federal Government. I will have more to say about that in a later debate. I emphasise that I will support the wishes of the Aboriginal people in this matter of control. They have given us a clear indication of their wishes. There is a clear indication that they want to see the Federal Government retain control. 
I wonder why it is that so often in debates about Aboriginal matters there seems to be a need for urgency. Again I express extreme concern about it. I think it would have been seen that Bills passed in haste are regretted at leisure. We have had ample evidence of this over the past two years. There is no real evidence for any urgency in this matter. The Government is adopting the same 'frightened fawn' approach to mining that it has adopted to a number of other situations. The companies concerned have exerted pressure, and the Government has overreacted. I remind honourable senators of the brave words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about the welfare of the Aboriginal people being paramount. It has already been indicated by my colleagues that the Opposition is not opposing the Bill. If the numbers are used to push through the other legislation in the package some protection will be needed. I ask those people who are really interested in Aboriginal welfare to consider seriously the amendments. 
It is most pleasing to see the interest that has been taken by Government supporters in this discussion on a matter of public importance. I remind the Senate of the actual wording of the proposal. We are asking for a clear declaration of Government policy, We did not really ask for the wide ranging debate that we have heard from some of the speakers. We are asking for a clear declaration. There is no doubt of course that we have had many declarations. We had one some time ago when the present Government opposed land rights, and  Senator Peter  Baume has drawn attention to this. Honourable senators may care to go back to read what was said in the Senate at that time when the present Government opposed the land rights legislation introduced by Labor. 
We had a second declaration on the campaign trail in 1975 when the caretaker Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Ellicott,  made a number of statements about what the Liberal Party would do if it attained into power. Honourable senators may recall the famous telegram which said that there would be no cuts in any respect and that there would be better services. In fact, one was reminded in the content of the telegram that it could have said: 'Anything that Labor can do we can do better'. Of course it did not mean anything. 
The third declaration was when the GovernorGeneral read his Speech on the opening of the Thirty-First Parliament, and let me quote from that. He said: 
Emphasis will be given to assisting Aboriginals to become more self-sufficient and acquire the skills to manage their own affairs.  . . the Government looks forward to the fullest consultation with the National Aboriginal Conference and the Council for Aboriginal Development on these and all other issues affecting Aboriginals. 
Critical observers in looking at the GovernorGeneral's Speech on that occasion of course would have seen that the management of the affairs of Aborigines in effect includes land rights because we cannot have one without the other. 
The fourth declaration was when the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  introduced his Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill. He spoke all over the country. He went on a large public relations exercise to convince the people that the government of the day really was interested in Aboriginal people. I refer to a statement that he made at the opening of the St Mark's Library in Canberra. I do not quite know what land rights have to do with the opening of a library. Nevertheless, the report in the  Northern Territory News  of 9 September 1976 reads: 
Land rights represent a pinnacle of success for those who have fought for social change in the Australian community with respect to Aboriginals, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner,  said yesterday.  . .  Mr Viner  said that the Northern Territory Land Rights Bill, presently before Parliament, 'uniquely provides the first example of Australian domestic law expressly recognising Aboriginal cultural values, and implicit in that, the Aborigines' customary law. 
I think Australians will come to realise the passage by the Commonwealth Parliament of the Aboriginal Land Rights Bill will mark a great turning point in social change of attitudes towards the Aboriginal people. 
Some of the speeches made in the debate on that legislation make very interesting reading. I will not quote them all because of the restriction of time in this debate. 
The fifth declaration we had was when the Minister introduced his 42 amendments, not 30 as  Senator Peter  Baume said. The Minister said that the amendments would give the Senate or the House of Representatives power to disallow a government decision overriding Aboriginal refusal for mining or exploration on Aboriginal land. He said they would also spell out guidelines for Northern Territory Legislative Assembly laws stipulating recognition of traditional Aboriginal rights. Of course there was a slight sting in the tail for he added that they would not require Aboriginal consent for grants for further mining interests when applications for leases on land which became Aboriginal land under the Act had been made between the freeze imposed in December 1972 pending discussion on land rights and the introduction of the Bill on 4 June. 
We have had another declaration. Every time there has been some sort of challenge to the land rights legislation there has been yet another declaration of policy. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  gave us yet another today, which she read from a statement which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs made some time back. Obviously, we are asking for a clear declaration of policy- which one of these six, seven, eight, or nine statements we are to believe outlines the Government's policy on land rights. 
Why is there confusion among the Aboriginal people and people of Australia generally? There is no doubt that there is confusion. The Bill is difficult and complex. We complained about that during the debates on the Bill. But that is not enough in itself; our legal advisers can interpret the legislation. The fact of the complexity of the Bill is not important. The real issue is the fact that the Minister says one thing to Aboriginal people and then says another thing in the House. From what we have heard lately, it would appear that he says yet another thing to colleagues in Queensland. This is the crucial issue on the declaration of policy. 
A fortnight ago, on 1 1 May, in our debate on the land rights legislation we stressed the problem faced by the Aboriginal people when their men of high degree- their law men- do not keep faith. I do not think I need to go into that matter again today. It is clear to the Aboriginal people what is meant by the term 'land rights'. It certainly does not mean leasehold title to land; it certainly does not mean these other funny little definitions which have been brought up by the Minister since the legislation was introduced. We do not have to reiterate the need for land rights for the Aboriginal people and the problems faced by the Aboriginal people who have been dispossessed of their land. It is clear to them that the Minister and his colleagues said that they were to have land rights and all the features which go with land rights. This was supported by the fact that government groups visited settlements and asked the people what they wanted, whether they wanted the land rights legislation to be passed in the Northern Territory or passed in Canberra. All the questions which were put at that time supported the proposition that land rights would be given. 
It was clear to the Aboriginal people also that some land could be granted immediately and that other land would have to go to the Commissioner; that hearings and so on would have to be held to see whether the land could be obtained. All these propositions were made clear by the Minister, his colleagues and the various committees which went out to the settlements. It was clear to the Aboriginal people that land rights for Aborigines means exactly that and does not mean land rights for a select group. The Aboriginal people recall that in 1967 a referendum was held which gave certain powers to the Federal Government in respect of the Aboriginal people. Honourable senators will notice that I am not doing as honourable senators on our side of the chamber have been accused of doing, namely, confining my remarks to Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
The Minister has made comments about the Northern Territory being a pace setter. The Minister's statement was explicit; it made it clear to the Aboriginal people what land rights are about. If Aborigines are clear about what they think, what is the problem? It is clearly that the policy just does not work. It is a situation of saying one thing and doing another. It is a situation of going to a settlement and making a statement to a group of clan leaders and then going away to Parliament and saying something different. It is a situation of stating a policy and then not carrying out everything which is implicit in that policy. The example which has been used well today by  Senator Keeffe  and others has been the example of Aurukun and Mornington Island.  Senator Keeffe  reminded us of what happened there. 

 Senator Baume has prompted me to comment on another issue, namely, the issue of selfmanagement. After all, self-management is a part of the land rights issue. If people obtain rights to land they obtain tenure to land. They obtain the right to permit people to go onto that land. They obtain the right to deny people access to that land; in other words, the entry permit system prevails. I shall outline the events which occurred at Maningrida with the Gunavidji people. On 16 January this year the Minister revoked the permits of six people who were working at Maningrida. I stress that the Minister revoked those permits. I mention the names of three people because these men who were working there with their wives were outstanding workers. I have mentioned before the wonderful work which these people performed. Dan Gillespie and David Bond were support workers in the outstation movement and Peter Cook was a mechanic, also with the outstation movement. They were doing excellent work assisting the outstation movement to develop. 
Because of time limitations, I cannot give the whole background, but the situation was that two other Europeans were causing some disturbance and the Minister wanted them out of the settlement. He said: 'We cannot put those two out'- I shall not give the reason for that, although it is known to several honourable senators 'so I have revoked the permits of all the Europeans who are working there, including their wives'. It is quite clear that the Gunavidji people wanted Gillespie, Bond and Cook, but the Minister said no, and instructed his departmental head to revoke their permits. I make it clear again that land rights and permits are interrelated. If people have land rights they  have the authority to deny some people access to their land. They certainly have the authority to allow some people to enter it. Honourable senators might recall that that was one of our criticisms of the Queensland legislation. 
It is quite clear to all of us here that the Aboriginal people- the traditional owners- have the right to land either themselves or through the Northern Land Council. Honourable senators can imagine the confusion at Maningrida when this happened. The Minister says one thing- they can have their land, they can deny access to people, they can keep people if they want thembut he does another- Can honourable senators recognise the situation which faces the people there? They are told one thing but in practice another thing happens. We are given a declaration of policy but it does not work out. We found later that the Minister's action was illegal, but that is not important. The important issue is that the policy was not followed. So we have to claim that the policy is not clear. If a government can change its attitude with respect to this policy it can change its attitude with respect to any others. 
At the present time the Aborigines in the Northern Territory are concerned about national parks. They are frightened of the powers being sought for the Director of the National Parks and Wildlife Service and of what might happen to them in this respect. At this stage I am not going to canvass the argument about the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly people- whether the legislation should be enacted there or here. The Aboriginal people have made it quite clear who they want to handle the legislation. I shall read from a copy of a statement made by  Mr  Wiyandiji  Nunggula, one of the tribal leaders of the Allawa tribe, which was sent to me during the time of our previous discussion on land rights. He stated: 
Many Aboriginal people in the N.T. do not agree with the N.T. Legislative Assembly. The N.T. Legislative Assembly are not genuine regarding the Aboriginal land ownership policy. 
We feel that the Legislative Assembly will favour the white pastoralists, who is one who comes and goes, who leases the land but do not value the land as we the Aborigines do. Who does not recognise the traditional land holding rights of the Aboriginal people, who are residents on the land. 
If the land Bill is put to the Legislative Assembly the holding rights to our land will be passed to the white pastoralists and we, the Aboriginal people of the N.T, will be left with meaningless promises or maybe, if we are lucky, we will be left with a few small isolated plots of land which will not be enough to produce market gardens or breed livestock, if the tribes concerned so desire, as part of our self-management. 
Concerning mineral rights we believe that Aborigines should be approached, that tribes should be approached, before any mining or resource developments take place on their tribal lands and that they should first be part of the decisionmaking processes. 
That matter has been discussed today. These people are concerned about mining because they fear that the granting of land rights will not mean what they think the term means. They have been told by the Minister and by people in the Government that 'land rights' means a certain thing, that it means the right to land. They certainly are not familiar with our concept of land being only on the surface. They are concerned with what is on the surface, with what is underground and the waters adjoining. I remind the Minister for Social Security, who read the statement from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, that during the Address-in-Reply debate honourable senators from both sides of the chamber had a great deal of discussion about people who say one thing and do another. Can the Minister's statement on policy really be reconciled with actions which have been taken by this Government since the statement was read? 
I support the proposition that the Government must make clear all aspects of this issue- both the acceptable and the less acceptable aspectsand must give full details to the Aboriginal people. For goodness sake, let us have a policy, not a multitude of policies from which one plucks the one which suits the occasion. Let us not have one which is going to change every day as the wind blows and as confusion is caused by a Premier or some other person making statements. Adopt a policy; do not change it. I am convinced that if we do this we will keep faith with the Aboriginal people and they will believe that our law men will keep their word; we will regain the credibility of the Parliament as far as the Aboriginal people are concerned; and we will put stature back into the law men, those men of high degree. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
When will tenders be called for the permanent rehabilitation of the electrical distribution system in the Rapid Creek Area of Darwin, Northern Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 8 May 1 978: 
To what extent is the Department of the Northern Territory responsible for actions taken by members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly Executive in relation to Willeroo Station. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 8 May 1978: 
Which officials from the Department of the Northern Territory accompanied members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly Executive and  Mr Rex  Jettner to Willeroo in December 1977, and what was their role. 

 - Senator Kilgariff claims to have been misrepresented. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 34 and 35- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 36. 
5 ) The Minister shall cause a copy of any report furnished to him under sub-section (1) or (3) to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after having been received by the Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory upon notice, on 8 May 1 978: 
Have the activities of the Northern Territory Primary Producers' Board, and/or its  Chairman, Mr Rex  Jettner, breached Commonwealth Audit requirements in any way, and has any investigation been initiated by the AuditorGeneral into the Board. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory which I preface with the comment that, in his statement to the Parliament on 1 1 May 1978, the Minister for the Northern Territory said, in relation to that Territory: 
Associated with the assumption of executive authority must be the responsibility to raise a reasonable level of local revenue using the revenue efforts of the States as a bench mark. 
What are the sources of revenue available to the Northern Territory? What taxes does the 
Government expect the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to raise? Will it be necessary for the Northern Territory to institute a Northern Territory income tax? 
I rise to speak in this first reading debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 3) to raise a matter that is causing concern in the Northern Territory. It relates to the field of radio communications in the general area of the proliferation of high powered transceivers or transmitting equipment and the sale of equipment to other than licensed operators. Perhaps I should give a little background to the matter before I make my speech in order to make the problem easier to understand. The Senate will be aware that a number of years ago commercially manufactured radio transceivers became readily available. They were bought mainly by licensed operators whom we have come to know as hams. These are the people who contact their colleagues all over the country. But some of the transceivers were bought by missions, by pastoral properties and by a few of the settlements. 
We also know that fairly recently citizen band radio hit the United States of America. I think that we can only use that phrase because it did hit the USA and it became a very popular hobby. The trend continued and CB radio came to Australia. Again, I might use the phrase that CB radio hit Australia because it became very popular here and many sets were sold. We know that in July last year CB radio was legalised after some pressure from the groups that were operating it. When CB radio was legalised in Australia, citizen band radio operators were given two metre bands, an 1 1 metre band with 18 channels and also an ultra high frequency 470 megahertz band. There were 40 channels available on this 470 megahertz band. 
I remind the Senate- it becomes important later in my speech- that the 1 1 metre band was previously the band which the amateur radio group used- that group of people we call hams. Many problems are associated with this 1 1 metre band, not the least of which being that there is a great deal of overcrowding and there are no free channels available on it. The problem of overcrowding could be overcome legally by the introduction of ultra high frequency citizen band radio sets.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Honourable senators will recall that I was addressing myself to a problem, in the area of radio communication, which was concerning us in the Northern Territory. That is the proliferation of high powered transceivers and the sale of equipment to other than licensed personnel. I had reached the point of saying that in July of last year when citizen band radio was legalised two bands were allocated to the people who use citizen band radio. They are the 1 1 metre band which has 18 channels and a ultra high frequency band, the 470 megahertz with 40 channels. I had made the point that the 1 1 metre band was previously one of those allocated to the people who use amateur radio. 
There are many problems associated with this action, not the least of which is overcrowding. There are no free channels on the 1 1 metre band. There is a way to overcome this problem legally- and I stress the word 'legally'- and that is to purchase ultra high frequency citizen radio band sets. Unfortunately, there are two ways of overcoming this problem illegally. I emphasise the difference between the two actions. One way is to buy a transceiver powerful unit. I will use as an example a 40 channel American CB unit which is available in local shops. The problem with this 40 channel unit is that at least 22 of its channels do not appear on the 1 8 channel Australian CB system. The 40 channel American CB unit cannot be licensed in Australia and yet it is offered for sale here. The second illegal way of overcoming the problem of overcrowding is to buy amateur equipment although the purchaser is unable to obtain a licence to use such equipment. I make the point here that one needs a licence to operate amateur equipment. I do not have to stress that point. 
The sorts of units that are being bought by CB fans to overcome the problems of overcrowding have variable tuning and a wide range of frequencies and disturbingly- why I say 'disturbingly' will become clear- a very high output of 70 watts, 80 watts, and, up to 200 watts whereas the citizen bank radio is limited to an output of 4 watts. I stress again that the sort of equipment that is being used is that which is normally used by the amateur, the ham, to call around the world. I would like to give a couple of other examples because I think these are very important. 
Before I draw attention to these other examples I stress the point that these units can be purchased from CB retailers. The two examples of advertising which I will give have appeared recently in magazines with 'CB' used as part of the name of the firms, stressing the fact that they are in the market to supply the users of citizen band radio. The first one 1 mention is a Telco Storm 50 unit. This unit has a 50 watt to 70 watt output from an input of 4 watts AM or 12 watts SSB. The comments that are made in the advertising splurge that goes with the photograph is that this unit is ideal for long distance contacts. It gives some details about the size of the unit and so on and then says that it is recommended for amateurs. But unfortunately in the advertisement the 'recommended for amateur use only' notation is in very small print. The advertisement then goes on in slightly larger print to say that it is ideal for use on the 27 megahertz band. I stress again that this is not an amateur frequency. 
The price of this particular unit is $ 1 35. Unlike  Senator Keeffe,  I am not looking for commissions but I make the point that at $135 this unit is well within the range of CB users. It is not an expensive unit. The second example to which I want to draw attention from the information I have in front of me is a DIGI SCAN, a model RDS1. The advertisement gives the details of this unit- I will not bore the Senate with themand then continues: '. . . adapts to 40 channel transceiver'. I made the point before that such transceivers are illegal. Yet here in the magazine this unit is being advertised. Linear amplifiers are advertised also. These units boost signals. Beams are advertised. The purpose of these is to increase efficiency even though again they are not legal. 
The advertisement of the 10 metre transceiver prompted one leading amateur in Darwin to write in a letter to me: 
The advertising or the 10 metre (28 MHZ Amateur f.) Transceiver as having 'lots of channels!' inferring that this would be better than the crowded 27MHZ is absolutely astounding. Why not advertise skeleton keys for burglars or that X brand of explosive has been tested on Y brand of safe and found to be effective. I feel it amounts to the same thing. 
That is a comment made by one of the competent operators, one of the licensed operators, in the Northern Territory. We are concerned because anyone can buy this equipment. One needs a licence to operate it but anyone can buy it. The chances of being caught if one operates illegally are very slim. There is a shortage of inspectors in the relevant department. I seem to recall drawing attention to this factor 12 months ago. There is a shortage of equipment to track down the people using these transmitters. 
My concern is not so much with the amateur operators as with the fact that because of the high-powered nature of this sort of equipment- I have been trying to stress that point in what I have said up to this stage- these units are able to block emergency channels. Honourable senators who have been to the Territory will know that the channels are used for emergencies. If there is a medical emergency or any other emergency on a mission, pastoral property or Aboriginal community some 200 or 300 miles from Darwin these units are used to call in to base. This applies, as honourable senators will know, to the Darwin, Katherine and Alice Springs areas. But the units that are out on the missions and in some of the communities are small units and can be blocked by the larger units. The people who are enjoying themselves with their CB activities on very high-powered equipment could cost the life of a person on a remote settlement who is trying to make contact with a doctor. That is a reason why I thought I should bring this matter to the attention of the House at this time. 1 stress again that the problem, as I see it, is that high-powered equipment is available to unlicensed or illegal operators. We know that amateurs have to have licences. Before a person is entitled to operate as an amateur- 'amateur' is the word that is used- he has to present himself and pass one of three examinations in varying degrees of difficulty. But a person has to study and present himself and pass an examination before he is allowed to operate this amateur equipment. By becoming members of a group which operates this equipment, people adopt the regulations which organise the activities. They know that it is for their own good to observe the regulations that have been set. There is a high standard of conduct among the amateur operators all over the world. I think honourable senators will recall that the first call that came out after Cyclone Tracy was from one of these amateurs, one of these hams, who was able to use his equipment to make contact with people in other parts of Australia. 
There is a number of ways to overcome the problem which I have drawn to the attention of the Senate. The first is to have a requirement that a licence must be produced before the amateur level equipment can be bought. This system operates in the United Kingdom. I am told by people who work in this field that very stringent requirements prevail in the United Kingdom and that one cannot buy a simple crystal set, such as we might have played with as boys, without some sort of licence. I am suggesting that this is one way in which we might control the sale of this high-powered equipment. The amateurs claim, with some justification I feel, that the same principle applies to this situation as applies to driving a car, having a rifle or pistol, flying an aircraft or any of those sorts of things. If the unit is likely to cause damage, the person must be competent to operate it and must prove his competence by passing an examination and becoming licensed. The amateur who made the comment which I quoted previously had this to say: 
It is obvious that the majority of businessmen selling transmitting equipment are concerned more with the quick quid and not of the consequences. This I can understand. What is deplorable is that the situation exists where they can do it. Surely a simple solution is to limit the sale to licensed people capable of producing that licence and also to have the seller supply the name and address of the purchaser to the Radio Branch. This method is by no means perfect but is far better than nothing. 
The suggestion is made that a person who wants to buy such equipment must demonstrate his competence before being able to do so. I think that the suggestion is reinforced by the Government's inability to police illegal transmissions. I have already drawn attention to this matter by referring to the shortage of radio inspectors. I have no doubt that many of us would object to this licensing situation on philosophical grounds. I have some objection myself. All I can say at this juncture is that if someone can come up with a better idea let him do so. I would be quite happy to see an alternative form of control introduced but I cannot think of one at present. If I knew of one I would propose it. I make the point that air space belongs to all of us. It is a scarce commodity. It needs some control in the Northern Territory. I have mentioned the particular problem in the Northern Territory- the need for channels to be open to receive emergency calls, urgent calls and so on. I make the point again that the calls which come is as emergencies are not strong calls and that they must not be blotted out by the very high-powered equipment which is being used just to circulate messages throughout a centre. 
I am not opposed to citizen band radio as such. No doubt it is a very interesting hobby to those people who take it up. Many find it enjoyable. I can see definite uses for it by people living on pastoral properties, isolated communities and so on. But some limit must be placed on the strength of the units which are allowed to be used for citizen band radio. We know that citizen band operators must be registered, but so many applications are before the radio branch at present that it just cannot control the situation. I understand that the radio branch is about 20,000 applications behind in its processing. 
Let me make some suggestions. I hope that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and his Department will have a look at them. I suggest, firstly, that a careful watch be kept by the Postal and Telecommunications Department on equipment offered for sale by the stores. It should ensure that nothing is offered for sale which is illegal in Australia. Surely that is not too much to ask. Equipment should not be offered for sale within Australia which cannot be licensed for use. We must devise some method to keep this equipment out of the hands of unqualified people. I ask the Minister and his Department to look at the suggestion. I also suggest that a register be developed. The register could have similar information, I suppose, to a gun register. It could have the name and address of the purchaser, the call sign of the amateur VK 123 or whatever the sign is- the signature of the dealer, the signature of the purchaser and the details of equipment sold. This information would be available to all qualified persons, which means, basically, radio inspectors. I do not suggest that these ideas cover all the problems. I have tried to highlight again the fact that the radio frequency spectrum is not infinite. It is a scarce resource and we must learn to control it. What I have suggested may not be the best way to overcome the problem I have outlined, but it would help to control the pollution of the radio frequency spectrum. 
The problem is not limited to Australia. We know that people with high-powered equipment can operate all over the world. We do not want to bring down the proud name which the Australian amateur who operates all over the world has at present. We do not want to have the harum-scarum operator who does not observe the regulations. I have already mentioned the high reputation of the people who operate the amateur sets. I mentioned what happened at the time of Cyclone Tracy. I ask the Minister to look closely at what I have said and to come up with some solutions. I ask him to consider what I have put forward. It may be the answer. No doubt the experts in this Department can come up with better ideas. 1 make the point very strongly that the matter is urgent. More and more sets are being sold every day, so the problem is getting progressively worse. Obviously, with more sets becoming available, the longer we leave the problem the worse it will become and the more difficult it will be to solve. I strongly recommend to the Minister that he should look at this problem in the radio communications area and come up with some solutions. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that in the case of the Crown v. Csidei in the Northern Territory Supreme Court a mistrial has been declared following a statement in the Northern Territory  News  by the editor of that newspaper,  Mr John  Hogan? If that is a fact, will the Attorney-General advise the Senate, first, how much the trial has already cost the taxpayers of Australia; secondly, how many cases will be disrupted because of the forced adjournment; thirdly, whether the Government will take action against  Mr John  Hogan? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 16 March 1978: 
When will the Kakadu area be declared a national park, in view of the decision, on 14 March 1978, of the Mining Warden in Darwin to grant 410 Mining Leases in the area. 
) When will the Government publish details of its policy relating to exploration and mining within national parks. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the Minister any information about the results of attempts to overcome staff shortages in the hospitals and dental clinics in the Northern Territory? My question is prompted by reports that there is a waiting time of three to four months for an appointment to see the eye doctor at the Darwin Hospital. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory outline to the Senate the present situation regarding the Willeroo and Dry Creek leases in the Northern Territory? The Minister will recall that the leases were to be purchased by the Executive of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Will the Minister advise specifically: Firstly, whether the Executive has the authority to raise a loan at this time; secondly, whether feasibility studies have been carried out in respect of Willeroo; and thirdly, whether the project is in some difficulty with outstanding debts- one of the order of $65, 000? 
We are dealing with the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill 1978 and associated Bills. The Opposition's criticism will be of the main Bill. We will be moving an amendment to it. Allied with this amendment for reasons which will become apparent as we go through the debate will be a matter dealing with the Ashmore and Cartier Islands Acceptance Amendment Bill 1978. There is no opposition from us to the rest of the Bills. But no doubt individual senators will have some comments to make and some queries to raise. I shall address myself to the main Bill and to the amendment which we propose. 
Self-government for the Northern Territory has been a dream of Territorians for many years, not only just in the last few years but way back, I think to 1911. We have all heard many stories of the early days when people were looking for a greater degree of autonomy and perhaps wished to remove the yoke of the Administrator. That is some of the early history. But certainly since the 1939-45 war there has been a surge forward in self-government for the Territory. In this place and in other places I have drawn attention to the work of people who have contributed a great deal in this regard. I notice that in another place the names of Jock Nelson and of a few others were mentioned as those who pressed for selfgovernment. 
Self-government for the Northern Territory has always been the policy of the Australian Labor Party. It is in our platform. It is now gratifying for us to see self-government coming to the Territory. I remind the Senate that Labor played its part in the bringing of self-government to the Territory. It was a Labor government which, in 1974, created the first Legislative Council with a number of elected members. It was the Whitlam Government which, during its term of office, gave the Territory a fully elected Legislative Assembly and also made the financial arrangements which enabled people to enter the Legislative Assembly. The criticism had been made previously that one would have to have money to be able to sit on the Legislative Assembly because the remuneration for doing so was not sufficient. In fairness, I must say that the LiberalCountry Party played its part during the period between the setting up of the Council and the granting of the first fully elected Legislative Assembly. The Liberal-National Country Party increased the number of elected members to the point where there were more elected members than there were nominated members. This, in itself, was a great move forward. The present coalition Government, of the same political persuasion, is moving towards the achievement of the total goal. 
The concern I feel- and I express it now- is that the Government is moving forward without reference to the people of the Northern Territory. On another occasion in this place I drew attention to the fact that even though the Australian Capital Territory is perhaps further away from self-government at this stage, already the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  has sent out letters to people explaining what is happening about self-government for the Australian Capital Territory and seeking people's opinions. This sort of thing has not been done in the Northern Territory and it is a great pity that this is so. I think this point will be made clear as we progress through the debate. Also, despite the fact that we made representations about this matter, the Federal Government or the local assembly has thought it wise to consult with Labor. I think  Senator Chaney  made the point in an earlier debate that not all the talent and not all the ideas are on one side of the chamber. Of course we all support that proposition. But when we are moving towards something like selfgovernment which, let us face it, is basically a bipartisan sort of move, it seems a great pity if there is no attempt to take advantage of some of the expertise or, to use  Senator Chaney  's words, the talents and ideas, that might exist on the other side of the chamber in the Assembly and perhaps in this chamber as well. 
I feel that there was not adequate consultation with the Legislative Assembly by the Federal Government. I shall bring forward certain evidence later on to prove this point. It seems that a lot of decisions were made in Canberra without adequate discussion with the Legislative Assembly- an assembly comprising people of the Government's own political persuasion- and certainly not with the people of the Northern Territory. Again my concern is that we are perhaps moving too quickly towards selfgovernment for the Northern Territory. Of course immediately I say that, someone will say: Well, that is a lot of nonsense. You have been waiting for self-government for so many years, why stop at this stage? Why be concerned that there is a quick movement in a brief space of time?' I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Northern Territory suggested a staged devolution of powers. It suggested that the whole process should be spread out so that there would be no traumatic experience for those people in the Northern Territory who occupy positions in the majority party in the Assembly. The last concern I must express is that the whole process is moving before the Northern Territory is ready for it. Not only are the people of the Northern Territory not ready but also perhaps adequate preparations have not been made. One wonders whether the superstructure is there and ready. One wonders whether the foundation is firm enough- if one can use that sort of analogy- on which a sound structure can be built. 
Let me make it quite clear that the vast majority of people in the Northern Territory want self-government. The question we have to think about, of course, is the timing of it- when it should come about- and the conditions under which it will come about. At this stage I move: 
At end of motion, add ', except that the Northern Territory (Self Government) Bill 1978 and the Ashmore and Cartier Islands Amendment Bill 1978 be withdrawn and redrafted because: 
1 ) the Northern Territory (Self Government) Bill 1978 should not be passed until a plebiscite has shown that voters in the Northern Territory approve the financial and constitutional provisions due to take effect on 1 July 1978; and 
the Ashmore and Carrier Islands Amendment Bill 1978 should not be passed until consultations have been held with members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly'. 
Honourable senators will note that the amendment covers two broad areas- the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Bill, which is the main Bill, and the Ashmore and Carrier Islands Acceptance Amendment Bill. I will address my remarks, first of all, to the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Bill, and then I will comment on the other Bills. In the next few minutes I shall put forward a proposition in support of our contention that the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Bill 1978 should be withdrawn until a referendum or a plebiscite has been held. The Constitution calls for a referendum to be held before a new State is created. Whilst honourable senators will understand that section 124 of the Constitution does not exactly mention a referendum, it is generally agreed by Quick and Garran and other commentators that it implies that a referendum would be held before a new State were created. 
The Government and, it appears,  Senator Georges  see the step of granting self-government as a movement towards statehood. Without being facetious about it, I think that has been made clear by government policy.  Mr Fraser  made the policy statement when he came to the Territory some time ago. So it is clear that the granting of self-government is one step towards statehood. I think if we were to look through the Bill we would see that it embodies the principles for statehood. In fact I believe that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  when introducing the Bill in the other place referred to it as perhaps a constitution for the Northern Territory. I doubt whether it is that. Nevertheless, he had that in mind. So if selfgovernment is a first step towards statehood, then surely some referendum or plebiscite should be held. That would seem to be automatic. 
The other principles implied in the Bill suggest that the giving of decision-making powers is what the Bill is all about. Surely one can put the point that the first decision that has to be made is when, and perhaps the second decision to be made is on what basis that power is to be conferred. Surely if the people of the Northern Territory cannot be trusted to elect a group into power and if that group in power cannot be trusted to make these sorts of decisions, we ought not to be talking about self-government. We ought not to be thinking that at some future time the Northern Territory will have statehood. I believe very strongly that the Federal Government has a responsiblity to find out from the people of the Northern Territory what are their views on this matter. I will present some evidence later to show that there are several other major bodies in the Northern Territory which support the holding of a referendum. 
Let me turn to an argument which the local Country-Liberal Party members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly have put forward, namely, that the election of last year gave a mandate for statehood. The report of a statement given to the Northern Territory  News  by the  Deputy  Majority Leader,  Mr Marshall  Perron read as follows: 
Speaking at a public forum organised by the Territory Australian Democrats on Saturday,  Mr Perron  said: 'There can be no dispute that our election victory was a mandate to institute the changes now imminent. 
The election was fought primarily on the issue of selfdetermination and when it would arrive. 
Our policy, as you know, was that self-government was overdue.' 
So we know from the  Deputy  Leader of the majority party,  Mr Perron,  that that party quite clearly saw the issue of the election as that of statehood. The party believed that it was given some mandate. But if we examine the situation we find that the Country-Liberal Party gained 4 1 per cent of first preference votes. So if its members are using the election result as an argument that they have a mandate for selfgovernment, then they are backing the wrong horse. Obviously many more than 50 per cent of the people of the Northern Territory do not want statehood, because they did not give their first preference vote to the Country-Liberal Party. It is clear that a referendum on the issue, being counted on the number of single votes would have failed. So if the result of the election is to be used to determine whether the majority party has a mandate, it is obvious that the people of the Northern Territory do not want statehood. I do not take it in that way and I think it is a specious argument to put forward. 
What do the Territory people feel about statehood? I intend to quote fairly freely from newspaper reports, if I may, because I think that is the best way in which to reveal the situation. I will take examples from the local newspapers and from the national newspapers to indicate what the people of the Territory say about selfgovernment. We do not know what they say, and this is one of the many reasons why we seek a referendum. We know what some people think. For example, we know what Don Chipp thinks. Another article in the Northern Territory  News  stated: 
Australian Democrats Leader, Senator-elect Don Chipp today urged Territorians not to be 'conned' into statehood by Canberra. 
The Democrats believe strongly in self-determination, but I, Chipp, as a national leader with 1 6 years of parliamentary experience holding 10 portfolios behind me, plead with Territorians not to accept it from Canberra until they have read the fine prim on funding, ' he said. 
Devolution of power is the catch-cry under the heading of new Federalism in Canberra right now. 
The Australian Democrats support the principle, but all of the six States and almost every local government authority I have seen in the past 12 months say it's the sweetest con job in federal history.' 
Having referred to that sort of statement, I am more concerned now to turn to the people of the Northern Territory and to find out what they think about the matter. I mentioned in my introductory remarks that little consultation had taken place with the people. I mentioned also that there had been little consultation with the majority party. A report in the Northern Territory  News  on a comment made by  Mr Everingham,  the Leader of the majority party, stated: 

 Mr Everingham said today Prime Minister  Mr Fraser  had contacted him on Friday and called him to Canberra for the talks. 
He was not sure at this stage if and when he would speak with the Prime Minister. 
The talks will touch on vital aspects of self-government. They come one day before the Bill comes before Parliament. 
One feels that that is a little late for consultation. The article continued: 

 Mr Everingham said there were a number of points about the Bill he was not happy with. However, he expects the talks will bring some measure of compromise. 
Two days after he had been to Canberra and had returned to the Territory, a local newspaper article stated: 
Majority Party Leader Paul Everingham said today that he wasn't 'entirely happy with some of the things we do know about' the legislation for self-government. 
For instance, we would like to see the Commonwealth prescribe its own areas of control, ' he said. 
It's more difficult for us to do the reverse- to say where we won 't be in control. It's difficult to be exclusive. '. 
Towards the end of the Press interview he said: 
We did manage to get hold of fairly complete details of the legislation, but the Commonwealth has the incomprehensible attitude that no legislation should be revealed to anybody before it is introduced to the House '. 
A further article which appeared in the  Star  newspaper stated: 

 Mr Everingham says there were talks between his executive and the Federal Government about the Bill, but convention had stopped him reading it before it was tabled in Parliament, and the attitude of the Department of the Northern Territory towards negotiations had been 'less than satisfactory'. 
So  Mr Everingham  is concerned about the convention which stops him from looking at the legislation. He regards that as an incomprehensible attitude for the Commonwealth Government to take. I find it surprising that he should be worried about convention. He obviously has forgotten the events of October and November 1975. The Australian Labor Party has constantly called for a referendum. At the present time a petition calling for a referendum is circulating and it has more than 4,000 signatures on it. I know that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  will dismiss the petition and say that people will sign anything, but I think that the gathering of more than 4,000 signatures in a fairly short time shows some interest in the subject. We believe it is significant. I personally feel that the number of signatures on the petition will become much larger. 
-There are 30,000-odd electors. People indicate their interest not only by signing petitions but also by attending meetings and so on. A number of meetings have been held in the Northern Territory for the purpose of discussing possible developments in the Territory. Those meetings have been mounted by the Australian Labor Party, the Australian Democrats, various associations, chambers of industry and so on but not, unfortunately, by the Government. That is rather surprising. However, other groups have got together and have mounted meetings so that all of these matters could be discussed. I think that indicates that there is a good deal of interest in the Territory in this subject. That has been shown by the following comment which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review: 
All three recognised opposition parties, the ALP to the Left, the Democrats at the centre and the Progress Party to the Right, as well as representatives of the public servants, the biggest single group of employees and at least one major black organisation have demanded such a poll. 
That is the poll to which I am referring. The article continued: 
More significantly, those people who would normally be assumed supporters of the ruling party are apprehensive. 
At the nub of the opposition is money. How much will selfgovernment cost, and more importantly, who is going to pay? Typical of those with doubts is  Mr Dennis  Power, proprietor of Power and Buckland Pty Ltd (Sunny Citrus) one of the Territory's major suppliers of fruit juice, who in apt metaphor says: ' We will be sucked dry. ' 
The  Star  newspaper, which is the second newspaper in the Northern Territory, conducted a poll among businessmen to see what they thought about it. An article in this newspaper which reported on the poll commenced by stating: 
There is mounting opposition to the idea of selfdetermination or Statehood for the Northern Territory. 
A snap  Star  survey of the Darwin business community showed real fears about what the cost of self-rule will mean. 
Another section of the community which showed an interest was the Aboriginal groups. A newspaper article reported what Bob Liddle, the leader of the Aboriginal people in Alice Springs, had to say. The article stated: 
I am calling for a referendum from an Aboriginal point of view, ' he said in Alice Springs this morning. 
We've had an Aboriginal council meeting here in Alice Springs, with representatives from the rural areas, to discuss the effects the transfer of powers will have on Aborigines. 
We agreed that by introducing State-type powers the local administration will have to raise more revenue by increasing charges. 
It 's inevitable that the Aborigines will be worst hit. 
It would seem from those comments that the main area of concern is lack of consultation. Also some queries are raised about financial arrangements. 

 Mr Perron, speaking at another forum; not the one I just mentioned before; made this statement: 
The financial implications of the Territory's moves towards self-government are the least understood area of the current historic constitutional development. 
It is not surprising that this should be so. We have had a situation in which the Minister for the Northern Territory has made one statement and the leader of the majority party in the Northern Territory has made another statement on the same subject. An article in the Northern Territory  News  stated: 
  Mr Everingham  had been quoted as saying that the Government would make sure that aid to the Territory would be enough to maintain a standard of services 'at an overall equivalent to those presently provided '. 
But a statement issued by  Mr Adermann  in Canberra said that the Commonwealth would 'endeavour' to ensure that assistance to the Territory was sufficient to maintain standards. 
Of course, those statements do not mean the same thing. There is a possibility in the Northern Territory, which is causing some concern, that a Territory income tax to provide additional finance will be introduced. Honourable senators may recall that  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Kilgariff  asked  Senator Carrick  questions in this place on this matter. In reply to a question  Senator Carrick  said: 
It could apply -  he was speaking of income tax-  but at this moment it is not included in the foreshadowed legislation. 

 Senator Wriedt then asked if it were possible that Northern Territory residents might be obliged to pay a separate income tax in the years ahead under the present Government's policy.  Senator Carrick  replied inter alia: 
It would be a matter for the Northern Territory to raise in the future . . . 

 Mr Perron, who seems to be the spokesman on this matter, during the same forum I have just mentioned said: 'The Territory will be no worse off than the States and this is the best we can hope for'. The following comment was made by a Northern Territory newspaper commentator who, after listening to  Mr Perron,  said: 
There appears to be ever increasing reasons why our Legislative Assembly should not accept the Federal Government 's 'offer' of self-government. 
Perhaps our MLAs don't yet see it that way- at least the Majority Party ones- but it seems the public does. 
What is becoming clearer with each passing day is that on July 1, if our 'leaders' go ahead, they will be governing a Territory without adequate income. 
The important question is what will it cost? A figure has been suggested a number of times by  Mr Everingham  speaking in the Northern Terri-' tory on Australian Broadcasting Commission programs and during Press conferences. He has given a figure of $6m. He said that this money will be raised from motor vehicle registrations, stamp duties and turnover tax. When the question was put to  Mr Everingham  during an ABC program when he was being interviewed with  Mr Isaacs,  the Leader of the opposition party, he said: 
. it 's not going to cost the ordinary person anything except with the slight increases in motor vehicle registration charges because the ordinary person doesn't pay stamp duty and the ordinary person won't be footing the bill for the turnover tax that the bookmaker would be paying. 
Then he made a statement which I am sure he has regretted many times since that the cost of self-government for the Northern Territory would be a can of beer a week. There are over 30,000 taxpaying units in the Northern Territory and on that basis the cost would work out at roughly $200 a unit. I appreciate that the cost would vary between different units but obviously the cost will be a little more than one can of beer a week. Therefore there is a vagueness and ambiguity which is causing some concern. I certainly would not go as far as the Northern Territory  News  went when one of its commentators said that the government of the Northern Territoryhe was speaking of the majority party- was inept, introspective and, frankly, incredible. I do not think that is so at all. I think the government is composed of sincere people who are attempting under great difficulties to do a very big job. I believe they are not being given the support by the Federal Government to assist them in this matter. I am reasonably critical of this and I am sure that my colleagues will support me in this respect. 
The other major area of concern that I want to mention is public servants. Public servants right from the word go- and there are large numbers of them in the Northern Territory- have been concerned about the transfer of rights, about their seniority and about what will happen to them after 1 July. An article in the  Australian Financial Review  states: 
Australian public servants and unions are balking at their transfer to the Northern Territory Public Service in the first stage of a transfer program scheduled for 1 July. 
So far they have been told that workers already employed will retain the terms under which they now work. 
But, according to  Mr Ferguson  - who is a member of the union which conducted a research project into the problem- 

 Mr Campbell ; the Public Service Commissioner;  seems to be saying that 'perhaps Australian public service conditions will not necessarily be the most suitable for the creation of a Territory Public Service '. 

 Mr Campbell had already said 'conditions would have to be looked at in the light of value for the Public Service dollar'. 
And it was feared that his lack of guarantees about the terms of employment for workers recruited to the Territory Public Service after July 1 meant an attempt would be made to eliminate such traditional benefits as the district allowance. 
I just finish off this general area by making the comment that the Federal Government and the local majority party should consult and be seen to consult with each other. I think it is most important that the people of the Territory accept the proposition that they have been consulted and it is clear that this consultation has taken place. 
I wish to make some very broad comments about the Bill itself. I will be brief because of a shortage of time and because these matters may be raised during the Committee stage. We are very concerned about the role of the Administrator. Under this Bill the Administrator- and no doubt some of the lawyers who may speak to this legislation will have some comments to makeseems to have undue constitutional power. From my reading of the Bill it seems that the Administrator is put in almost the same position as the Governor-General. Of course, this is not appropriate in the Northern Territory situation. It should not be the same. It should be subject to many more constraints. I think there should be a requirement for him to consult the Government and to act on its advice. I do not want to buy again into this argument because we will raise this matter at the Committee stage. Certainly the Administrator as, of course, the GovernorGeneral, should be required to seek advice and to act on that advice. Let me make it quite clear that I have no criticism whatsoever of the present Administrator, a man for whom I have the highest regard. He is a man of very high principles. 
I will speak about clause 7 of the Bill during the Committee stage. The clause states: 
Every proposed law passed by the Legislative Assembly shall be presented to the Administrator for assent. 
The Administrator may withhold this assent. If he does so, there is no law. I will be looking at clause 8 where the Administrator reserves a proposed law for the Governor-General's pleasure, the Governor-General may withhold assent. It seems that the Territory politicians, whatever colour they happen to be at the time, will have two hurdles to mount and still they may have no assent. As far as I am concerned, and I think the general proposition would be accepted, elected people should have the opportunity for their legislation to be dealt with effectively. Of course, they should have the say. This is the very cornerstone of democracy. Again, the Administrator may appoint times for sittings, decide the number of Ministers, appoint and terminate the appointment of Ministers, and so on. Again, this is contrary to democracy. I was interested to note that in another place  Mr Lionel  Bowen made this statement: 
To vest all power in one man really denies power in every way to the Northern Territory itself. 
At the Committee stage I will also be making some comments about the quotas and asking whether they should not perhaps be decided on population rather than on the number of electors. I know that we have a slightly different situation in the Northern Territory. As one can understand, many of the Aboriginal people are not on the roll. We could have quite easily a situation in which, between a decision being made on the quotas and the actual polling day, hundreds of Aboriginal people could be enrolled in an area. Our objection, of course, is to the wide, 20 per cent disparity. Federal law allows for 10 per cent, and this is what we will be seeking by an amendment at the Committee stage. We do not want the situation that existed in the last election, when the number of electors in electorates ranged from 1,686, through 2,063 and 2,486, up to 2,922 persons. I know that this will bring a smile to the faces of some people whose electorates number more than does the entire population of the Northern Territory, but I want simply to indicate the range and the variation from the quota. 
The Opposition has no objection to the legislation relating to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. We have talked to the union leaders about it, and they seem to be quite happy with it. I want briefly, before concluding, to comment on the situation concerning the Ashmore and Cartier Islands, to which the other section of my amendment is devoted. The Northern Territory has not been consulted on this matter. I raise it basically because it is one that can be left out- to highlight the lack of consultation that has been present. This is typical of the cavalier attitude that the Federal Government has shown in regard to the formulation of this Bill. Both sides of the Legislative Assembly- the majority CountryLiberal Party and the minority Labor Party- are in favour of Ashmore and Cartier Islands being retained in the Northern Territory. I am not discussing that issue, but rather using it to highlight the lack of consultation that has been present. The principle lying behind it seems to be a little like that of the Government some time ago to land rights for the Aboriginal people; that is, that the Aboriginal people can have the bits that we do not want. 
It seems to me that there are two sound reasons why we should support the amendment on the Ashmore and Cartier Islands. Firstly, up till now it has been considered a part of the Northern Territory. If I recall correctly, section 6 of the 1933 Act provides for this. Secondly, the people of the Northern Territory see possible financial implications as far as they are concerned; they hope to derive some revenue from this area. There is little point in giving selfgovernment if the Federal Government retains the revenue-producing sources. The amendment is promoted by the fact that consultation has not taken place. We put very strongly the point that the Northern Territory is entitled to be involved in decision-making. As I have mentioned, if we take it out of the package it will have no effect. We can leave the decision until later and can meanwhile consult our colleagues in the Northern Territory. 
I would like to conclude by reading a comment in an editorial in the  Canberra Times  which, speaking about the whole movement towards self-government in the Northern Territory, had this to say, inter alia: 
In view of all this, the demand of Labor in the Northern Territory that the Territorians be formally asked to say whether they agree to the financial and political arrangements proposed seems to be eminently reasonable. 
It is not to argue whether a referendum should be held to decide whether self-government is wanted or not. In a democracy self-government is both a right and a responsibility that cannot be shirked. But what form it shall take and how it will be financed is essentially a matter of choice by the people themselves. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2), paragraph (a), sub-paragraph (ii), after law', insert 'for a specified period, for the purpose of receiving advice from the Council relating to the purposes, objects or validity of the proposed law '. 
I draw attention to sub-clause 7 (2) (a) subparagraph (ii). I invite honourable senators to look at the series of amendments which I have circulated. The purpose of this amendment is to return power to the Legislative Assembly and remove power- what we regard as the extraordinary power- from the Administrator in this legislation. It seems to the Opposition that it is a travesty of democracy where the Administrator has power to veto or to override the elected government, that is, the Legislative Assembly. Let us look at the situation of the Administrator. He is, of course, appointed by the Federal Government and obviously is under some influence from that Government, whichever flavour it happens to have. If the Administrator withholds assent it is really the Federal Government which is withholding assent. In other words, it is making a farce of the so-called self-government; the Federal Government retains the control. If the clause remains unaltered the Bill becomes an insult to the elected representatives of the Legislative Assembly and they become little more than advisers. The solution which we have recommended in our amendment is the simple addition of the words that have been suggested. These words give an opportunity for review; they give an opportunity for a re-think; they give an opportunity to alter; to make use of the expertise of the Administrator's advisers, officers and so on; but the power is retained in the hands of the Legislative Assembly, where we contend that it belongs. 
I believe that this right is the fundamental principle of our system- that the Administrator must follow the advice of his advisers. I regard that very strongly as the cornerstone of the Westminster system. It has stood the test of time, and it would be unfortunate if it were not included in this Bill when we have the opportunity to lay down a new constitution, as one of the speakers called it. The Administrator can make suggestions. He can point out legal problems. He can point out constitutional weaknesses, but in the final analysis, it is my contention and the thrust of our argument, he must take the advice of the elected representatives of the Legislative Assembly. If the Government is sincere in wanting to give the Northern Territory self-government it must accept the amendment. If the Government really is sincere about wanting self-government for the people of the Northern Territory it has no alternative but to accept this amendment or something like it, but at least put power back into the hands of the Legislative Assembly. It is my honest belief, however, that the Government will lose the credibility of the people of the Northern Territory if this amendment is not accepted. As far as I am concerned, I have to say that this amendment, which is the key one as far as I am concerned, is the litmus test of the Government's real intentions as far as self-government for the Northern Territory is concerned. If the Government does not accept the amendment I think we must call for a vote to ascertain which people support the principle which I am propounding and which people are posturing in this situation, because it seems to me quite clearly that it is a situation of a principle versus a posturing. 
There has been much talk in this place in the last few months about people saying one thing but doing another. If we talk self-government, if we really mean self-government, we must put real power, real decision-making into the hands of the Legislative Assembly. It is not an advisory body. I remind honourable senators of the second reading speech of  Senator Webster  who represents the Minister for the Northern Territory in this place. He stated: 
The people of the Northern Territory, in common with other citizens of our Federal Commonwealth, have the right- indeed the duty- to control their own affairs through a democratically elected legislature. This is what we are now seeking to achieve. 
If we are seeking to achieve that end then this amendment must be carried. I am quite sincere. This is too important a matter to worry about the usual loss of face if an amendment is not carried, about lack of confidence or other such nonsense. We are dealing here with the future of the Northern Territory. This Bill, as has been said, is truly historic. It deserves our closest consideration and our purest intents. I commend the amendment. 
I deal now with clause 7(2) (b). I move: 
In sub-clause (2), paragraph (b), leave out sub-paragraph (ii). 
Clause 7 (2) (b) (ii) reads:  that he withholds assent to the proposed law; 
He in this case refers to the Northern Territory Administrator. Clause 7 (2) (a) deals with matters in respect of which Ministers of the Northern Territory are to have executive authority. In other words, these are the powers that are to be transferred. This is what the Bill is all about. Clause 7 (2) (b)- the one we are referring to now- deals with all other powers. The Opposition is happy to see the matters referred to the Governor-General because this would provide an opportunity to review the situation, a possibility for the Governor-General and his people to check the constitutionality and legality of the measures in areas for which the Northern Territory Ministers do not have responsibility. In other words they are not areas for which the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has responsibility. But we are concerned that the Administrator should have the ability to withhold assent from Bills dealing with these matters because they seem to us to be outside his area of responsibility. The amendment seeks to have the responsibility for assent or withholding of assent with the Governor-General. We feel that it is putting the responsibility where it belongs. Of course, in this case the Governor-General would be properly guided by his Federal advisers. I commend the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8. 
As soon as practicable after the Governor-General has made a declaration in respect of a proposed law in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ), the Administrator shall cause to be published in the  Government Gazette  of the Territory a notice of the declaration. 
I move: 
Leave out sub-clause (4), insert the following sub-clauses: 
As soon as practicable after the Governor-General has made a declaration in respect of a proposed law in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ), the Minister shall cause a notice of the declaration to be laid before each House of the Parliament, and either House may, by resolution passed before the expiration of 15 sitting days of that House after the notice is so laid, disallow the declaration. (4a) Where either House of the Parliament passes a resolution in accordance with sub-section (4) disallowing a declaration made by the Governor-General, the disallowance shall have the following effect: 
in the case of a declaration that the GovernorGeneral assents to the proposed law- that the Governor-General's assent shall be deemed not to have been given; 
in the case of a declaration that the GovernorGeneral withholds assent to the proposed lawthat the Governor-General's assent shall be deemed to have been given; or 
in the case of a declaration that the GovernorGeneral withholds assent to pan of the proposed law and assents to the remainder of the proposed law- that the Governor-General's assent to the remainder of the proposed law be deemed not to have been given. (4B) If, after the expiration of the 15 sitting days referred to in sub-section (4), neither House of the Parliament has passed a resolution disallowing the declaration, the Administrator shall cause a notice of the declaration to be published in the Government Gazette of the Territory. '. 
This amendment deals with the situation where the Northern Territory Administrator reserves the proposed law for transfer to the GovernorGeneral. Our amendment is in keeping with the philosophy and practice that we have already discussed in both the second reading debate and the comments I made on the amendments proposed to clause 7. We claim that the GovernorGeneral should not have the full right in this matter. A responsibility for matters other than that exercised by the Ministers of the Northern Territory should be exercised by the Federal Parliament. The Parliament should have the opportunity to debate and to make decisions and then to advise the Governor-General of the decisions. Apart from the philosophical reason we put forward for this amendment, it would give an opportunity for some channel of appeal for the members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. They would have an opportunity for their legislation to be looked at by their big brothers, if you wish, in the Federal Parliament. I commend the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
Where, as a result of his consideration of a law, the Governor-General so recommends any amendments of the laws of the Territory, the time within which the GovernorGeneral may disallow the law, or a part of the law, is extended until the expiration of 6 months after the date of the Governor-General 's recommendations. 
I move: 
After sub-clause ( 3 ), insert the following new sub-clauses: (3A) As soon as practicable after the GovernorGeneral has disallowed a law or part of a law under this section, the Minister shall cause a notice of the disallowance made by the Governor-General to be laid before each House of the Parliament, and either House may, by resolution passed before the expiration of 1 5 sitting days of that House after the notice is so laid, disallow that disallowance. (3B) Where either House of the Parliament passes a resolution in accordance with sub-section (3a) disallowing a disallowance of a law or part of a law made by the Governor-General, the second-mentioned disallowance shall be deemed not to have been made. (3C) If, after the expiration or the 15 sitting days referred to in sub-section (3a), neither House of the Parliament has passed a resolution disallowing the disallowance made by the Governor-General, the Minister shall cause a notice of the disallowance made by the Governor-General to be published in the Government Gazette of the Territory. '. 
As it stands, clause 9 allows the GovernorGeneral to disallow any Northern Territory law within six months without appeal to the Federal Parliament. We could actually see the situationalthough the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  has suggested that this could never happen- in which the Governor-General might disallow a law without recourse to any other opinion at all. By the amendment we have suggested that the Northern Territory Administrator should return laws to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly if he wishes to withhold assent. The logic here is that if the Governor-General wishes to withhold assent he should refer the law to the Parliament for further discussion. If it is referred there is a debate and a further opportunity for the matter to be aired. The proposed law could be given a second chance, as it were, in the Federal Parliament. We feel the decision should not be an Executive decision. It should not be simply the Executive which makes the decision on this matter. We see the laying of the proposed law on the table as a safeguard. But it is the principle that is important in this case and which we want to stress all the way through. As we see the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly having the decision making function, so we see the Federal ParliamentParliament, not the Executive or the GovernorGeneral making the decision on these matters. I commend the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 12- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 13. 
For the purposes of sub-section (4), each electoral division shall contain a number of electors not exceeding, or falling short of, the quota calculated under that sub-section by more than one-fifth of the quota. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (5), leave out 'one-fifth', insert 'one-tenth'. 
This matter has been alluded to by a number of speakers, including  Senator Chaney.  I do not want to canvass the arguments that have already been put forward in the speeches. I simply put the proposition that there is no reason why the Northern Territory should have a differential from that which applies in the Federal situation. There does not seem to be an argument for that. There is a general feeling in the comments of authors that one reads that a one-tenth allowance is a reasonable proposition. When I was speaking briefly on this matter I reminded the Senate that a large number of Aboriginals are yet to be enrolled. The figure of the differential could become even much larger than 20 per cent between the declaration and the poll. 
I feel that the proposition we are looking at here, to return to a 20 per cent allowance, is rather backward looking and regressive. I do not have to canvass here the point of view put forward by the Australian Labor Party, that we believe in one vote one value. We do not want to see the situation that existed when the last Legislative Assembly poll was held. I fail to see any reason why we should introduce this provision. Perhaps the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  has some good reason for it. I ask the Minister to accept the amendment so that when we are starting out in the Northern Territory we start on the same footing as the rest of Australia and the rest of the democratic world. I commend the amendment. 
I move: 
At end of clause, add the following new sub-clauses: 
After the general election of members of the Legislative Assembly, the Administrator shall, by notice published in the Government Gazette of the Territory, appoint a time, being not later than 30 days after the day appointed for the return of the writs relating to that election, for holding a session of the Legislative Assembly. 
The time appointed for the holding of any session of the Legislative Assembly shall be such that a period of 12 months or more does not intervene between the end of one session and the first silting of the Assembly in the next session. '. 
My amendment seeks to specify times for the sitting and proroguing of the Legislative Assembly. The clause contains no requirement that the Assembly meet regularly. There would be nothing to prevent its meeting in order to obtain Supply and then not meeting again until the next Supply period occurred. It would appear to be fairly logical to set down clear guidelines as to what ought to happen. It is not sufficient to leave it to the Administrator to say: 'I think there ought to be a meeting of the Assembly now. Let us go ahead with it'. The amendment calls for the first session to be held 30 days after the return of the writ. That seems to be a reasonable proposition. We have also proposed what seems to be a long period of time- a maximum of 12 months- as the interval between sessions. Probably we were guided somewhat by the activities that have taken place in Queensland. Again, we put the proposition- and I do not want to belabour the argument- that it should not rest on the whim of the Administrator, or on his integrity. Obviously, it would be better to set guidelines and let them be followed. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
-I move: 
Leave out sub-clause (5 ), insert the following sub-clause: 
The Administrator shall convene a meeting of the Council if the Legislative Assembly, by resolution, so requests. '. 
I draw attention to sub-clause (5) which states: 
Meetings of the Council shall be convened by the Administrator and not otherwise. 
I wish to follow up what was said by the Minister when last speaking to clause 22. It appears that we have to make it quite clear that nothing that has been said about the Administrator or about members of the Legislative Assembly relates to the present incumbents of those positions. I thought we had made that clear earlier. What we are trying to do is establish principles so that the Northern Territory will have the best constitution we can achieve for it, and in our amendment to this is what we are attempting to do. We are attempting to provide that instead of the Administrator making his own decision- despite what the Minister has said, that is what the Bill implies- he should convene a meeting of the Council only if the Legislative Assembly requests. We know that there are conventions bur conventions have been broken in the past. 
I will not accept the proposition that because this was done for the States the Northern Territory should follow the example set. That is a poor reason to put forward for doing it and it is not worthy of the Minister. In what we are trying to do for the Northern Territory in its unique situation we should learn from the mistakes of the past. If it has been a mistake to have done this in the past, let us do something different for the future. But this is where the Northern Territory seems to be missing out because we appear to be saying simply: 'Let us duplicate what has been done elsewhere and that will be OK for the Territory'.  Senator Kilgariff  and I, and many others, have said, not in this place but outside, that when we have a Northern Territory Public Service let us make sure that we learn from the past and do not duplicate all the mistakes of the past; and if we are to have an education authority in the Northern Territory let us have a unique education authority and not simply follow what has been done everwhere else. When I was working with the Department of Education and was responsible for setting up a new section I spoke to my colleagues in the various States about it and they said: 'You are lucky, you can learn from our mistakes. We cannot change because we are so established, but you can start with sound principles'. 
That is all that the Opposition is trying to put to the Minister now, but I do not think he is getting the point that we are making. Our comments are not a criticism of the Bill as it stands. We are trying to put forward a few ideas which might be considered by the Minister so that we will have in the Northern Territory the best possible set of conditions as we move forward to selfgovernment. The Opposition maintains that it is not democratic for meetings of the Council to be called only by the Minister, and clearly in the Bill that is his responsibility. Obviously the Council should meet when the Assembly requires it to meet and when the Assembly directs the Administrator to call it to meet. Ours is a simple amendment to put into the Bill the requirement, rather than leave the situation to convention which, of course, sometimes fails. I commend the amendment. 
I thank the Minister for his political instruction. Although it helps it does not change my philosophy on this matter. I believe that having the Executive Council called only when the Administrator says so is not right and my belief has been reinforced. It has been made clear by  Senator Kilgariff  that the meetings of the Executive Council will be at the request of the Majority Leader through the Administrator. The point I am trying to make is that there ought to be machinery for this procedure and I think the Minister sees this. There ought to be provision for the Executive Council to come together but what we are trying to do is take this responsibility away from the Administrator and give it to the elected Assembly. If the Council can say when it should come together we certainly would accept that proposition. I want the responsibility moved away from the Administrator who under this legislation has the power to say that the Executive Council will meet only when he says so and, in the words of the Bill, ' not otherwise '. 
I move: 
After 'Administrator', insert ', with the approval of the Legislative Assembly, '. 
Quite clearly we are rehashing the arguments which have been put forward throughout the debate. The Bill clearly says that the Administrator will have the responsibility in this matter. I accept the comments which have come from the other side that the Administrator will be guided, but there is nothing in the Bill that says he will be guided. This is what the Opposition is trying to get into the Bill. We are trying to get into the Bill a provision which will ensure that the sorts of things that  Senator McLaren  talked about cannot happen. Obviously it is the responsibility of the majority party to say how many Ministers it wants. It can pass on the information to the Administrator. If he takes the advice everything will be OK. But we must prepare for the situation in which some Administrators might not take the advice. Of course, as has been pointed out, Administrators have not always been responsive. There have been interesting times in our history when they did not respond. I appreciate that there is a different situation at the present time, but as  Senator McLaren  has pointed out, Governors-General have not always taken advice either. 
Surely it is better to have the responsibility with the majority party; in other words, back with the elected representatives. This is the point that I am perhaps pushing to a boring degree, but I have to make it over and over because it is not sinking in. If it is simply a traditional way of saying this, why bother? Why bother simply to have a traditional way of saying things? Why not have in the Bill a provision that the Majority Leader will designate, or whatever provision we want? But we want to keep responsibility away from the appointed Administrator. I repeat what 
I said earlier: There is a unique opportunity to be different. We can learn from others. I think that in this as well as in other instances we could have learned from the history of the last few years. It could have assisted us in making a decision on the number of Ministers. I commend the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 35 agreed to. 
Clause 36. 
The Administrator may appoint a member of the Legislative Assembly to a Ministerial office, and may, at any time, terminate the appointment. 
I move: 
Leave out 'appoint a member of the Legislative Assembly to a Ministerial office, and may', insert ', with the approval of the Legislative Assembly, appoint a member of the Assembly to a Ministerial office, and may, with like approval,'. 
Very briefly, the appointment of Ministers is dealt with in this clause. We simply have to say again that this clause gives the responsibility to the Administrator. Surely this is the prerogative of the senior officer of the elected group, whether it is the Chief Minister, the Chief Secretary or the Majority Leader- whatever term is used. It is not the responsibility of the political appointment to the position of Administrator. In order to avoid possible problems in the future should the Administrator fall out with a Minister and sack him on the spot, which the Bill says he can do, appointments should be made with the approval of the Legislative Assembly. If it is a formality of appointment- and I make the statement that I made in respect of the previous clause- let us change the wording. There is no need to stick with the wording. Here is an opportunity for change. We should let the Assembly have the control over appointments and be seen to have the control. Let it be seen to have the control as a safeguard against the unwitting powers of the Administrator. I commend the amendment. 
 The situation is, as was explained to us this afternoon by several speakers, that the Ashmore and Cartier Islands were annexed to and became pan of the Northern Territory. The Bill proposes to remove them from the Northern Territory. The question one must ask as a result of the second reading speech by the Minister for Science is: Why is it inappropriate for the Ashmore and Cartier Islands not to remain with the Northern Territory? Why cannot they remain annexed to the Territory after 1 July? Why should the islands not be part of the Northern Territory instead of, as was put in the Minister's speech, part of the internal mainland territory? 
We raise this question, as I indicated in my speech during the second reading debate, simply to draw attention to the lack of consultation with the people of the Northern Territory and the lack of consultation by the Federal Government with the Legislative Assembly on this matter. I was heartened to hear  Senator Chaney  speak as he did in the debate earlier tonight. I will not canvass the arguments again but I just put the point that both parties in the Northern Territory object to this amending Bill, and it seems strange that the Government is just going ahead regardless of the views of the people of the Northern Territory. I do not want to stress the financial implications. I do not think they are the important ones. The important issue is the arbitrary action of the Federal Government- almost cavalier, one could say- and this is resented by the people of the Northern Territory. The point that I make is that it seems a very insecure foundation on which to start building if we are going to disregard totally the people of the Northern Territory by not consulting with them and take this action hoping that at a later stage the Territory will cooperate in all matters. 
If there were sufficient time the Opposition would move amendments to this Bill. I understand that the Government has pressing problems so I will not introduce amendments at this stage, but 1 would like to comment if I may. Firstly, the amendments that we would have moved would have been identical to those that were moved to the first amending Bill earlier this year. They would have carried forward the same philosophy as was contained in our amendments to the first amending Bill. The Committee and the Minister for Science will recall that the amendments dealt with the matter of secrecy and the matter of proclamations being laid on the table. The stand which the Opposition took at that time was consistent with the stand that we took in 1 976, and of course it was consistent with Australian Labor Party policy. 
The amendments were moved in the other place and I draw those to the attention of the Minister. There was a full debate. The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  was present in the House of Representatives and he took part in the debate. He would have listened to the amendments. The purpose of the amendments was hopefully to strengthen the Act. 
I have spoken in this place on land rights on many occasions and I will not speak on that subject at length tonight. 1 merely draw attention to the fact that care is needed in this area. It is at the very heart of Aboriginal culture. I am sure that the Minister in this place who represents the Minister for the Northern Territory understands this. I ask him to relay to his colleague in the other place the fact that we on the Opposition side in this chamber support and endorse the amendments that the Opposition moved in the other place, and we would ask that they be taken on board and, as they were not accepted in the other place, perhaps considered in future planning for the Northern Territory. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that the trainee nurse intake at the Darwin Hospital has been cut from sixteen to nine because of staff ceilings? If this is a fact, will the Minister not agree that this is a short-sighted step when so many units are operating at less than efficiency due to staff shortages and also in view of the additional number of nurses who will be required when the Casuarina Hospital opens later this year. 
It gives me much pleasure to join in the support for this motion. It is particularly relevant at this time following the debate we had in this place last night on self-government for the Northern Territory. One could perhaps wryly observe that the Government must have been fairly confident of getting the Bill through last night to have gone to such a lot of trouble. It is pleasing to see the Federal Government being associated with its colleagues in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in the mace and the dispatch boxes which we had the privilege of seeing some time ago. I think all of us would agree that tradition has a place in all communities as it has a part to play in the culture of all countries. We must be conscious in Australia of developing our own traditions. I think the Order of Australia award was a step in the right direction. 
We must also be conscious of not allowing tradition to militate against any sort of progress or advancement. We must also learn the best we can from tradition. We have a great advantage in Australia by the very nature of our multicultural society. We have a number of traditions that we can follow and cultures from which we can learn. We have much to learn also from our Aboriginal friends. Some of their culture and traditions may possibly be included later in our own traditions. It is natural that we of Anglo-Saxon stock would look towards Westminister not only because it is part of the old country but also because it is the system which has been adopted by many countries not only those with this sort of ethnic origin. 
Last night during the debate I drew attention to the danger I saw in the argument that all the States do this. That falls into the category of Forty thousand Frenchmen cannot be wrong', which I do not think we necessarily support. I tried to make the point that the Territory is different. The different problems it has may need different solutions. We are starting our new traditions in 1978, not in the middle of the 1 9th century. We have an opportunity at this time to innovate as well as to learn from the past. I believe that like the Chinese we should stand on the shoulders of those men who have gone before us. 
I am very pleased that a delegation will be going from the Federal Parliament to present the Mace. I trust that you,  Mr President,  will be part of that delegation. I trust that an opportunity will be given to the people of the Northern Territory to take part in some way in the presentation of the Mace. You may recall from your previous visit,  Mr President,  that because of the size of the chamber it was not possible for the people of th. Northern Territory to take part. With respect, 1 make the suggestion that perhaps some sort of public activity might take place outside of the chamber to allow the people of the Territory to be involved in this historic, this momentus step; then perhaps the Mace could be carried into the chamber after that. 
I have put forward that suggestion very seriously because I know that the people of Darwin in particular would like to be involved. I only mention the people of Darwin because they are on the spot and they do not want to be on the other side of the wall. I regret that on this occasion I will not be able to accompany- if I were invited to do so- the delegation to visit the Northern Territory. I will be overseas, but like Burns: 'I mind ye still tho' far awa'. I support the motion. I am confident that the people of the Northern Territory will gain inspiration from these traditions. 
The purpose of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978, as stated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  is to provide for mining companies in the Alligator Rivers Region to retain their current rights on the ownership of and access to existing improvements constructed by them when the land on which the facilities have been erected becomes Aboriginal land. The Opposition is not opposing this Bill. It seems an eminently reasonable proposition. However, one must make the comment that the Bill seems rather unnecessary, particularly in the light of the comments that were made during the debate last evening when the Opposition tried without success to get some details and some specifics put into the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill. Perhaps a more disturbing feature is the apparent lack of faith of the Government in the Aboriginal people. 
At this late hour I certainly shall not take the time of the Senate to discuss the fact that the tribal Aboriginal tends to keep faith. I have stressed this point often. It seems to me that the Government could simply have sought an undertaking from the Aboriginal people that the property belonging to the mining companies would remain theirs when the land becomes Aboriginal land. I am confident that the Aboriginal people would have given this undertaking and I am just as confident that the Aboriginal people would have been very happy for the mining companies to recover their property. As I understand the Bill and, I am sure, as the Aboriginal people understand it, it refers to buildings, property and so on at present on the land. If there is anything ulterior or-- 
-Sinister, as the Leader of the Government says, in the Bill I cannot see it. I am not aware of it. I certainly have no legal background that would enable me to find it. The Aboriginal people believe that the Bill is straightforward and means what it says. In view of the Government's preparedness to leave many things unsaid and unspecific in the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Bill, this 
Bill seems unnecessary. If it is as simple as the second reading speech of the Minister for Science suggests, I shall speak no further on it. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 

 - Senator Georges, may I suggest that you direct your comments to clause 6. 
Having decided to take this course, the Government has introduced another means of billing which seeks not to disadvantage organisations such as the Aboriginal health services, a few other organisations and certain classes of people such as pensioners. It seems to me that what the Government intends to do now is to abolish bulk billing as we have known it and institute some method by which a patient, by filling out the normal claim form, say, at the next door chemist shop, can assign to a doctor the right to claim. Most doctors surgeries and clinics have chemist shops next door which have medical benefits claim forms. Apparently what the patient can now do is sign an agreement to make a claim directing the cheque to be forwarded to the doctor. The Government brought bulk billing under some control and supervision by making the patient responsible for filling out all the details on the claim form and making the claim. The Government has now instituted a system where it has denied itself that supervision. 
Consideration interrupted. 
Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Consideration resumed. 
I should have liked to have raised one other point but perhaps I could leave it to a later stage. The point I have raised seems to be an important consideration. Is the abolition of bulk billing to be delayed? Is some limitation or delay provided in the Bill? Is it to be delayed because the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  is not certain that he is doing the right thing in abolishing bulk billing? Perhaps he would like some delay before it is abolished in order to assess the likely damage caused by the new method. Does this factor mean that there is some division in the Cabinet because the Minister for Health has taken a particular point of view in support of bulk billing and somebody else- I would hesitate to say that it might have been the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  on an ideological basis has decided that the Government is against bulk billing; the doctors are against it; and it will be cancelled? Are we now being faced with a situation that we have faced from time to time in which the Prime Minister imposes his will upon the Minister for Health? Is this the reason for this delay in the implementation of the abolition of bulk billing? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 8 May 1 978: 
1 ) Will the staffing levels in Northern Territory schools be brought up to acceptable standards before the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly accepts responsibility for education. 
Will repairs and maintenance to school buildings be increased to ensure that the buildings are in a satisfactory condition to be transferred. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1978: 
1 ) What are the sources of revenue available to the Northern Territory. 
What taxes does the Government expect the Northern Territory Assembly to raise. 
In particular, is it the Government's intention that the Northern Territory raise additional revenue by an income tax levy. 
I take the opportunity on the first reading of the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3) to raise a matter which is of particular interest throughout the Northern Territory. I speak of the subject of assistance to migrants. I look at the area of migrant settlement. Honourable senators in this place will know and appreciate that the Northern Territory has what one might call a multicultural society. In Darwin alone there are 5,000 or 6,000 Greeks, a large Italian community and a large Chinese community. In fact, at last count, as far as I know, some 32 nationalities were represented in Darwin. This situation does not pertain only in Darwin. In the mining towns, particularly in place like Nhulunbuy, there are many migrants and many of these are nonEnglish speaking migrants, people who have come to Australia with little or no English. I think that the situation in the Northern Territory might be a little different from what it is elsewhere. We do have many new arrivals per head of population. Figures have been taken out on this but I do not have them on hand at the moment. I think we would find that in the Northern Territory there are more new migrants per head of population than in other areas. 
I draw attention to the assistance that has been given to migrants to settle in by the Northern Territory Good Neighbour Council. That Council was formed in 1970 with a salaried staff. We are very fortunate that this salaried staff was a very dedicated and competent group of people. They have given valuable service to the migrants in the Northern Territory. But the particular point I draw attention to is the fact that this couple of salaried staff members have been supported by volunteers- 200 volunteers in Darwin, 50 volunteers in Nhulunbuy- and all the major centres in the Northern Territory have regional representatives or small groups operating to assist the migrants in those areas. The work done by these people is particularly valuable. These people assist the migrants to settle in, with all that that means. I do not want to go into detail on this as we do not want to prolong the debate. 
These people act as interpreters, both in the legal situation and in the normal social situation, such as getting children into school, arranging contacts with employers and so on. They act as a link with government departments- there is a number of -government departments in the Northern Territory- acting not only as interpreters but also as people with some local knowledge of the situation so that the people who come out to Australia do not, shall we say, go cold into a situation when they need some assistance. These people also encourage ethnic activities. Those of us in this place and in other places who know how important these ethnic activities are will support this proposition. These people carry on a particularly good service, namely, the home tutor service, teaching English. The Good Neighbour Council of the Northern Territory has done an excellent job. It has been singled out in the Galbally report, in which the following is stated in section 6.5: 
Another example is provided by some of the regional offices of the Good Neighbour Council and the smaller councils, for example, Darwin. Indeed we found that the operations of these offices correspond very closely with the model we have in mind. 
I shall speak later about the model that Galbally had in mind. Of the Darwin Council  Mr Galbally  had this to say in the report: 
. it appeared to be more attuned to the immediate needs of migrants. We have already noted that they provide more direct welfare and counselling services; however, we believe the most important factor in their success is the links which they have been able to form with local ethnic and community organisations. 
In the light of this, it is very difficult to understand what the Government has in mind in deciding to dismantle the Good Neighbour Council office in Darwin. One must ask why this has been done. Of course, there is no doubt that it has been done. I refer to a Press statement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  dated 2 June, in which it is stated: 
A Commonwealth-financed 'self help' program will encourage local ethnic and community organisations and assist them in migrant counselling, welfare and cultural services in future. 
Announcing this today, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the  Hon.  M. J. R. MacKellar, said: 'The Government appreciates that the ethnic communities have many voluntary organisations in close contact with their community members. These organisations are willing and able to assist their communities and Government resources will be available to them. We hope to get right away from an old-style paternalistic approach'. 
This decision has caused a great deal of concern in the Northern Territory. The Director of the Northern Territory Good Neighbour Council,  Mr Hamilton,  was reported as follows in the Northern Territory News: 
Acting director John Hamilton said today he was 'flabbergasted ' the Government planned to stop council funds and create a new scheme. 
Support for the comments made by  Mr Hamilton  has come from the Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, from the Leader of the Opposition in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and from the  Chairman  of the Australian Ethnic Council. As a matter of fact, support has come from other members of the Northern Territory Government. I happened to be sitting in the Assembly when I heard the Minister,  Mr Robertson,  commend the work of the Good Neighbour Council. He went so far as to suggest that the Council would be supported in the work it was doing. Obviously the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs was concerned to see that the Northern Territory Good Neighbour Council was being disbanded because he said in a telegram of consolationalmost of condolence- to the Northern Territory Good Neighbour Council: 
Australia, no less than the thousands of individually assisted migrants, is indebted to the succession of dedicated Council members and tireless workers who breathed humanity into official procedures. 
I think the Minister put that very well. He continued in his telegram to say that he would be quite insensitive if he failed to accept that the phasing out would raise questions in the minds of members. The question that one must ask is: If this is an effective organisation, why should it be disbanded? If it is going to be disbanded we have to ask what the Minister has in mind. A model for a migrant resources centre is suggested in the Galbally report. Section 6.7 of the report states: 
The centres we envisage should be locally based, in areas where large numbers of migrants live, and multicultural. While we support the concept of ethnic communities providing services for their own members and recommend, later in this chapter, specific measures to help them to do this, we believe resource centres should generally be multicultural and available to all groups. This will enable a more effective use of resources, but more importantly, will help to improve coordination and communication between the various migrant communities, and between service providers at the local level. 
The organisation suggested by the Minister following the presentation of the Galbally report was that in 1979-80 a staff of two will be provided in Darwin and finance will be given to rent a headquarters building. There are many disadvantages associated with this proposal and I would like to look at a few of them. The first is the question of what will happen in the period of dismantling the present effective organisation and in reassembling a new organisation. In that period when assistance is needed no assistance will be available. We all know that if we have a strong group of volunteers working and we put them off and leave them for 12 months it is extremely difficult to get them back together again, particularly in the light of what  Mr Hamilton  was moved to comment on what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had written to them. The Press report stated: 

 Mr Hamilton said many volunteers were affected by a letter from the Prime Minister  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, which said that the Government would help with the re-deployment of volunteers. 
I do not know in which areas the Prime Minister suggested that these volunteers might be redeployed. Certainly that sort of comment did not help the situation. Another disadvantage would be that the new group would be based in Darwin with no funds for travel. This would mean that the organisations outside Darwin, in those areas which need assistance- Nhulunbuy, Katherine, Tennant Creek, Alice Springs and the others- would get no assistance. I think it will be accepted from what I said earlier that in the mining camps and the mining towns there are many non-English speaking migrants who would need assistance. There is a big job to do outside the Darwin area and the migrant resource centre proposed by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affiairs following the Galbally report would not be able to do this job. I ask again why it is necessary to dismantle a unit that is effective and replace it with a unit that will duplicate only some of the functions of the Council; it will not duplicate the lot. I ask the Minister to give very serious consideration to keeping the Northern Territory Good Neighbour Council operating. It is clear from the Press release that he is able to do so. The Press release states:   . . 18 multi-cultural resource centres, run to suit the needs and priorities of local ethnic and community organisations, would be established in areas of need; 
I will read the last part again: 
. run to suit the needs and priorities of local ethnic and community organisations, would be established in areas of need; 
I claim that at present the Good Neighbour Council meets the needs of the Northern Territory communities. It has been proved to be effective and, I refer again to the fact that this has been recognised by the Minister and by the Galbally report. I claim that the Good Neighbour Council would not cost much more to operate than would the migrant resource centre organisation which would not effectively replace it. The Minister in his statement has drawn attention to the emphasis on volunteers. I have shown that in Darwin alone there are 200 volunteers and that there are another 50 in Nhulunbuy, and so on. So all centres have shown that they have volunteers who are prepared to assist. It is not a government run organisation with only salaried staff operating. A great band of dedicated people has been doing this work, simply getting organisational support from the Good Neighbour salaried staff. It would provide the on-going assistance; we would not have a break of 12 or 18 months or two years. It would keep the effective machinery operating. I ask again how long it would take to assemble the machine and the volunteers if we simply chop off funds. Of course, one must not overlook the social cost of the change, with so many new arrivals coming in, so many non-English speaking people looking for assistance. 
I would like to mention another related matter although the main thrust of what I had to say was directed at the retention of the Northern Territory Good Neighbour Council. I noticed with some concern that the Budget provides for the pre-embarkation classes and the shipboard classes that have been operating so effectively over the years to be disbanded. I ask anyone who has a knowledge of the value of these classes what comment he or she would make about this action. I ask them just how effective these classes have been to the migrants who have come out here. They have had assistance beforehand in the form of the pre-embarkation classes and have had assistance on board ship. The classes that are provided, both pre-embarkation and shipboard, are in the English language- that is essential- but they also look at the Australian way of life and try to introduce the migrants to the mores and social customs of Australian people. I think all educators would appreciate that this sort of training is much more effective than what becomes basically remedial training, when people are thrown into a situation and then have to be given assistance later. 
I make the point here that many of the people who wish to come to Australia have to wait for quite a long period before they can do so and this time can be spent in preparation. We should continue to use this technique to avoid adding to the difficulties that people face when they come to a new country. Once again, there is no great saving in disbanding these classes. The money that will be saved by stopping pre-embarkation and shipboard classes is not significant. I am sure that migrants will all testify to the value of the work that has been done. I do not think I need to elaborate on that point but I draw the Minister's attention to it. I call on him to give consideration to retaining the present Northern Territory Council. This would mean, of course, providing funds with which it can continue operating. I remind him that the present Council does much more than the proposed resource centre could do, that the work it is doing could be more effective and that it has been shown to be effective. This has been proved by the fact that  Mr Galbally  used the Darwin office of the Northern Territory Council as his model for the resource centre. 
I ask the Minister to give thought to a continuation of the pre-embarkation and the shipboard classes. I have made the point that the migrants accept their value, the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs accepts their value and I am sure honourable senators would all see the value of avoiding the creation of a problem. The Opposition firmly believes in the most effective utilisation of scarce resources and 1 am sure that the Government would not disagree with this concept. I contend that the suggestion made for 'the needs and priorities of local ethnic and community organisations' sums up what the voluntary group was doing in Darwin. It met those needs and it was able to provide assistance to the migrants. It would be a great pity if this wonderful resource were to be taken away from the migrants in the Northern Territory. 

 - Mr President, the Opposition does not oppose the measure, and I remind honourable senators that it was Labor which introduced sufficient salaries for members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly to enable the man in the street to move into the Assembly and take his place. Because of the contribution that has been made by people in the Northern Territory, on both sides of the House, might I say that it is good to see that the salaries are sufficient to enable people to come in and take their places and make their contribution. It is unfortunate that in the early days it was only the nominated member who made his contribution and then the official members who made their contributions. It was quite some time before independent members were able to move in and take their places. I also make the point that Labor supports the proposition that salaries ought to be set by the Remuneration Tribunal and that we should then stand back from them and allow the Tribunal's findings to take their place. I should like to have said more but at this stage the preparation is not sufficient and I simply say that the Opposition does not oppose the legislation. 
-My question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister refers to the problems faced by India following the recent disastrous floods. Has the Government of India approached the Australian Government for any form of assistance? If so, will the Minister indicate the form of help requested and the response to that request? If no approach has been made, will the Prime Minister, in view of the close bonds which unite our two countries and bearing in mind the generous response from India following Cyclone Tracy, take the initiative and provide some relief in the form most needed by this fellow member of the Commonwealth of Nations? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that secondhand rails are being used in the construction of the rail link between the southern States and Alice Springs? Is it also a fact that plans to build a modern passenger and freight terminal in Alice Springs have been scrapped? If so, will the Minister not agree that these actions are inconsistent with the 
Government's announced intention to build a line of world standard and provide appropriate facilities to complement that line? Will the Minister undertake to take immediate steps to see that the promise given to the people of Australia is honoured? 
I present the following petition from 264 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Northern Territory respectfully showeth: 
That the Federal Budget will severely and adversely affect the living standards of wage earners, socially and economically disadvantaged people and minority groups through the imposition of higher direct and indirect taxation and spending restraints. We call on the Government to immediately review its Budget strategy and humbly pray that the Government will implement measures to protect the purchasing power of consumers and prevent worsening unemployment by creating new jobs. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 820 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
objection to the decision to provide no money for established school libraries in the N.T. in the 1978-79 financial year. 
a request that at least $100,000 extra be provided for school libraries in the N.T. in the 1978;79 financial year to ensure our children receive the quality of education available to children in other education systems. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 4 April 1978: 
1 ) Did Christopher Boyce, a code clerk with a company involved with the United States Central Intelligence Agency, state during his trial on espionage charges that the CIA had acted improperly in Australia by withholding from the Australian Government information as to the true purpose of the Pine Gap Installation. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that United States Security Agents operating in Alice Springs maintain files on Australian nationals living in that town. 
Have any arrangements been made for the defence of the people of Alice Springs in the event of an attack on the Pine Gap base; if so, what arrangements. 
I take the opportunity on this first reading of a money Bill to refer to a matter which is of great concern to me, as I am sure it is to other honourable senators in this place, that is, the disbandment of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Housing Panel, due to take effect on 30 September. It is of concern to me, to people in the Northern Territory, and obviously to many people in Canberra. The  Canberra Times  drew attention to it last week and again this week, although I would like to note the reference this morning to a statement by the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay).  The article states: 
The director of an Aboriginal housing panel, which has accused the Government of giving one housing manufacturer preferential treatment, was conducting a wellorchestrated campaign to persuade the Government not to terminate the panel, the Minister for Construction,  Mr McLeay,  said yesterday. 
I do not know the director of the Housing Panel,  Dr Heppel,  to whom I shall refer later, and since my material was prepared last week, I am certainly not part of an orchestrated plan. There was no mention of the Housing Panel in the Budget, and we know from the Minister's statement at Alice Springs on 4 September that he intends to disband the Panel. I quote from a statement made by the Minister in answer to a question put to him in which he said, referring to the Panel: 
I know that's of importance to you because of the work the Housing Panel has been doing around Alice Springs. Last year, the government gave the Housing Panel about $ 1 50,000. 1 looked at it this year, and decided it was better to build houses with that money than to spend it on architects and other people who were working with the Housing Panel. I also decided that if any special help was needed about plans for houses, or how to build houses, I can go to the Commonwealth Department of Construction, or in special cases, I can arrange for a community to get advice from an architect. And in that way, the money that is available to me from the government for housing can be put to better use, because it can be actually building houses whilst I 'm still in a position to get advice from people whose advice I need about the kind of housing that you want. 
Apart from the rather generous use of the first person, the answer given by the Minister was quite unrealistic and brought a response from a number of people. It brought a response from Aborigines in the Northern Territory and in other parts of Australia. It brought a response from people who are concerned with Aboriginal advancement and it also brought a response from members of the Panel. One who was particularly concerned was the  chairman  of the Tangatjira Council,  Mr Wemen  Rubuntja, who had originally put the question to  Mr Viner.  He had this to say: 

 Mr Viner's answer is highly unsatisfactory to us. It reveals a paternalistic attitude: he is to make the decisions and to decide what is best for people. He displays an unwarranted faith in the ability of the Department of Construction and adhoc architects/consultants to do the Panel's work. He glosses over the fact that only a small proportion of the $150,000 was spent locally and wrongly assumes that Department of Construction already employs people who have the necessary skills and time to fill the role. 
Why then is the Panel being disbanded? When the Minister made his statement he had this to say: 
. the money . . . can be put to better use. . . . 
It will be noted that, according to the extract I read earlier, the Minister decided that it would be better 'to build houses with' the money. He did not explain where the money would come from to use the Department of Construction or the special architects. That is something that he has left in the dark. Wenten Rubuntja, referring to the Department of Construction officers, said: 
They have none of the personal experience or anthropological training possessed by housing panel staff. Nor do they have the proven loyalty, dedication and responsibility to the Aboriginal community which has been demonstrated by the Panel and which has led to its downfall. 
So the  chairman  of the Council believes that the proven loyalty, dedication and responsibility to the Aboriginal community demonstrated by the Panel is one of the reasons why the Panel has been disbanded.  Dr Michael  Heppell, the  chairman  of the Panel, has said that it was the independence of the Panel which upset the Department and the Minister. This independence enabled the Panel to criticise the Department and the Minister as well, and  Dr Heppell  has suggested that this is one of the reasons why it is being disbanded. In the  Canberra Times  last week and again today he is reported to have said that the failure to enforce rules governing provision of grants, which had resulted in one company getting a monopoly in the Northern Territory and a large section of the New South Wales market, to which the Panel had referred, had caused it to be disbanded. I quote from the article in the  Canberra Times  on 13 September in regard to  Dr Heppell: 
He said the housing panel had warned the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner,  and his staff five times during the past year, in November and December 1977 and February, March and June this year, of what was taking place. He believed the Government's decision to disband the panel at the end of this month was a direct result of the panel 's efforts to have the matter investigated. 
What then was this Panel and what did it do? Basically, it was a group of people who had the responsibility of preparing town plans and designs for houses appropriate for Aboriginal communities. The members of this group would sit down with the Aboriginal people and listen to what they wanted in terms of nouses and town plans. It would involve the Aborigines in its discussions and try to meet their needs. This was necessary because the Government has a long history of building inappropriate houses, a hangover from the days when there was a feeling that Aborigines should become like other Australians, have the same lifestyle, the same clothes, the same education, the same work habits and so on. Honourable senators may recall that I have drawn attention in this place to the effect of that sort of attitude, well meaning as it was, on the education system. Of course, it had the same unfortunate effect on the housing situation. 
The other view, again very well meaning, was that Aborigines were entitled to the same housing as white Australians, the suggestion being that it must be 'as good as'. Unfortunately, whilst we all support the proposition that the houses must be 'as good as', it came to mean that the houses must be the same. Of course, this would not meet the needs of the Aborigines but simply leave the people who made the decisions with a clear conscience. The houses being referred to met the needs of white Australians but did not meet the needs of black Australians. As I mentioned earlier, I have discussed this approach to education and the effect it had. Inappropriate became ineffective. There is plenty of evidence to suggest that the Government was on the wrong tack when it was building houses which were 'the same as ' those of white Australians, and I refer to the mile of houses at Papunya. There was certainly not a mile of houses but a long row built about 1964 or 1965. They were not good quality houses but they were much better than the leantos that the Aboriginal people were living in. However, they did not meet their needs- their housing needs, their social needs, their cultural needs- and so they were not lived in. It was as simple as that. The people remained in their lean-tos. There are many examples of this at other centres. In the case of houses that were the same as European houses, many were vandalised and people asked: 'We have carefully built these three-bedroom houses and fitted them out. Why is it that the people have vandalised them?'. We have the answer from  Dr Heppell,  who has said: 
If you are living in the wrong environment, it is a stressful situation and one of the manifestations of stress is aggression which is often redirected at the immediate physical environment, in this case the house . . . 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was dealing with the vandalisation of what I call 'the same' houses, that is, houses built for Aboriginal people on the style of those built for European people. I would like now to go on to look at the attitude which has been adopted by some of the States. Peter Goldie in the article which I quoted earlier cites two examples. I would like to read directly from the  Canberra Times.  Under the Goldie byline, it had this to say: 
Attitudes of authorities to Aboriginal housing vary but two slogans used in the building industry which have been attached to two State authorities sum up previous approaches. 
The Western Australian State Housing Commission has said it builds by the slogan, 'Anti-ravage, anti-savage', prompting it to build sturdy constructions devoid of fittings and with as few movable pans as possible. 
Featureless 
This was translated into building reality in the form of virtually indestructible, impact -resistant and featureless houses with crude amenities and a living room which in the tropical north flooded with every rain. 
In Queensland, the Department of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement has encapsulated its policy in the statement, 'We don't build houses for Aborigines- we build houses for people  It reflects Queensland 's stated objective of treating Aborigines like any other citizen, but it is similarly a facade. 
The attitude has resulted in construction of a standard, European-style house which is designed to look like the average suburban home but lacks most of its services, fittings and amenities, such as water or electricity. 
They are built on the assumption that you design the average home and then subtract everything which makes living in a house worthwhile', an architect on the panel who has worked extensively in Queensland said. 
The approach of the Department of Construction is thought by the panel to have strains of both philosophies and certainly little regard for the views of future occupants. 
We might then go on to ask why houses and town plans should be different for Aboriginal people. I think the answer, if one can oversimplify, is that people come from different cultural backgrounds and people who come from different cultural backgrounds require different houses and different town plans. We should design houses to meet the wishes of people. Surely that is not too much to ask. We, as Europeans, are usually happy with the simple box-type house. Within that we can modify to meet our special requirements. But these homes have been demonstrated not to suit the Aboriginal people. The homes must meet their needs and of course, preferably their wants, but certainly their needs must be met. I make the point here that of course each group will have different needs. These must be catered for if the houses are to be acceptable. 
Over the years the Aboriginal people have adopted the technique of simply rejecting the things that they do not want. For example, they simply did not live in the houses built for them at Papunya. 
I also make the point that some Aboriginal people want three-bedroom houses similar to the ones we use, and of course these people must be catered for. But we must also cater for the others. It is not sufficient to train Aboriginal people to live in the houses that we build for them. I have had personal experience in this. Some 15 years ago I looked at the matter when Gemco on Groote Eylandt wanted Aboriginals, along the lines of the philosophy that I discussed earlier, to have 'the same' houses, in other words, the same as European houses. The Aboriginal people rejected them. We went into the cultural background of the people, but it was quite clear that the Aboriginal people from Angurugu did not want to move down to Alyangula and live in these beautiful homes. They were much happier living back at the mission where the homes were more suited to their needs. Had Gemco realised the situation and taken more advice, perhaps from the anthropologists, they might have developed homes within the complex at Alyangula which suited the needs of the Aboriginal people. I am not denigrating the attempts of the people involved; as I said before, people had the best of intentions when they wanted Aboriginal people to have homes that were as good as those that were built for Europeans. But as I indicated earlier, the 'as good as' became 'the same' and of course the Aboriginal people did not want to use them. 
Only a few years ago I looked at the situation at Wave Hill. Excellent homes have been built there- excellent in the sense that you or I would like to live in them. The Aboriginal people kept them very clean and tidy so that they were presentable if people wanted to look through them, but they lived outside, they ate outside and they slept outside. Any person who walked into those homes would regard them as beautiful, sterile buildings, but certainly not homes in the sense that we understand the word. 
Town planning is important for the Aboriginal people. I do not want to go into this subject in depth; I simply want to say that family groups like to stay together, but they like some space between their group and the next. There are sound, traditional reasons for this and I will not bore the Senate with them at this stage. I simply make the point that town planning for Aboriginal communities must be done by people who understand. It goes without saying that the people who understand have already talked to the Aboriginal people and have asked them what they want. So the panel attempted to design homes to suit Aboriginal people and to meet their needs. The question can be asked: Was it successful in what it was doing? I refer to the Hay report of May 1976 in which  Mr Hay,  when referring to the housing panel, said:   no group other than the panel is presently capable of doing this necessary innovatory and research work on Aboriginal housing' and 'The panel has the skills, which probably no one else possesses, to develop designs for general use . . . 
I would suggest that that situation still exists, although the comment was made in 1976. 1 put forward the proposition that no other group has the necessary skills to design towns and to plan houses for Aboriginal people. If the panel is not going to do it, if it is to be disbanded, who is to do the job? Honourable senators might recall the reply by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs when in Alice Springs to the suggestion that the panel would be disbanded. He said: 
I also decided that if any special help was needed about plans for houses, or how to build houses, I can go to the Commonwealth Department of Construction, or in special cases, I can arrange for a community to get advice from an architect. 
This is completely unrealistic. There is certainly no indication that the Department of Construction has learnt from its mistakes of previous years. It has not learnt from the history of the last 15 years. Yet in today's  Canberra Times  the Minister for Construction,  Mr McLeay,  was reported as saying: 
But the demise of the panel will not alter the quality of service provided to all Aborigines. 
This, I claim, is clearly nonsense. The Department might build quality houses, but it will certainly not build appropriate houses. Certainly the Department of Construction has a role; no one would deny that. The role is to build to meet the needs of clients; that is, to design, to prepare plans, and to supervise the work, but not to make decisions on what a client needs. That is the situation that is developing with regard to the Department of Construction. Evidence abounds to suggest that the Department has gone well beyond its charter. It tells the client what it wants. Perhaps that is being a little uncharitable. What it probably does is simply subjugate the client's needs to architectural design. The Department says: 'It is easier to build this way', or 'It is cheaper to build this way' or 'We are more used to building this way'. 
I remember the situation as regards school buildings. So often buildings in the Northern Territory with its tropical climate were designed in temperate conditions, so we were sent hot boxes with inadequate ventilation, and of poor design with cupboards in the wrong places. They also provided inadequate shade. In other words, they did not meet the needs of the people of the Northern Territory. I have also had complaints made to me about hospitals in the Northern Territory. For example, in the labour ward at the hospital at Warribri there is no running water. Also, there are complaints that in regional hospitals costing millions of dollars the doors are too narrow for trolleys to pass through and the facilities are inappropriate. Such buildings are architecturally sound. They were well planned and well designed except that they did not meet the needs of the client. 
Of course the Department of Construction would say that it builds to a brief, but this is not enough. We must have client representation. We must have a clear indication of what people want. I do not want to digress, but if we are going to build a school, it is obvious that a trained teacher, an experienced teacher, ought to be sitting by the architect when the school is being designed so that there will not be costly mistakes. If we are building a hospital, it is fairly obvious that we will need a matron standing by to make sure that the design will be functional when the building is erected. If we are going to build for Aboriginal people, then we certainly must have an Aboriginal group or a representative of an Aboriginal group standing by to advise. 
I claim that the Department of Construction has not the expertise to design homes to suit Aboriginals. It needs social anthropologists and others to come in and give it some help. The Minister might say that the Department could prepare a brief and simply hand the matter over to the Department of Construction. I have already mentioned the problem with the preparation of the brief. The Department is not used to building these sorts of buildings. It is conditioned to the European type of construction and so it will churn those out. The Minister for Construction made a suggestion in his statement that perhaps we could get an architect to come in and help. I think it is quite clear that the panel has found it necessary to have not only architects but also social anthropologists and others who have a good training with an anthropological background and who can help design homes for Aboriginal people. It is not enough to say: 'All right, this one architect can be the man to plan for Aboriginal people'. For a start, it would take him years to learn. Also we are still not sure we will get what we want. After all, there have been experts in designing schools in the Department of Construction for many years. They still make fundamental mistakes if the designs are not submitted to teachers of to other educationists so that they can look at them and modify them. I make the point again that each community is different and therefore there would be differing needs. This expertise of knowing what is needed for the Aboriginal people is available. Why not use it? Last year the Budget was $173,000. Goldie, in his article estimates that the work done would have cost $23 1,000 if carried out by the Department of Construction or by private consultants. I make the point that even if we had used these groups it would not have been as good or as appropriate and it would not have met the need. I call on the Minister for Construction to reconsider his decision in respect of the panel. Wenten Rubuntja, whom I have mentioned before, had this to say about the Minister's decision: 
He - 
That is the Minister-  implies that specialist architects are no longer needed. It would indeed be cheaper Tor the government to get Construction to reproduce existing designs in the short term: but for satisfactory housing in the long term, the need is for large numbers of good quality houses which are designed to meet the specific requirements of specific communities. Tribal, cultural and social differences between groups are real and important. The Housing Panel was in a position to fully investigate these differences and make designs accordingly. The Department of Construction is not: with the best will in the world it would take them years to attain the Housing Panel's skills in the area. They would start off with a backlog of mistrust and bureaucratic inertia to be overcome. They have none of the personal experience or anthropological training possessed by the Housing Panel staff. Nor do they have the proven loyalty, dedication and responsibility to the Aboriginal community which has been demonstrated by the Panel and which has led to its downfall. 
I claim that the housing panel has been successful. In Alice Springs alone it is in close consultation with 12 housing associations and evidence suggests that they have been given a great deal of assistance by the housing panel. People are moving into the homes, living in them and looking after them. Disbandment may not only affect the situation in the future but also it may cost the Government much more than it would save. I do not think I have to dwell on the point that adequate housing is the first step towards a healthy community. Let us have houses that people want and will live in. Let us see the panel funded so it can carry on its excellent and proven work. 
-The Minister for Adminstrative Services will recall that his predecessor undertook to look into the provisions of booths or suitable contact points for Commonwealth car drivers in a number of airport terminals, including Darwin. I ask the Minister to indicate to the Senate the present position regarding the provisions of these facilities. 
I think the general criticism of the Budget has been adequately handled both here and in the other place by my colleagues. They have made constructive criticisms of the Budget and have come forward with an alternative Budget. I am going to follow the pattern that I usually adopt in this sort of situation and look at the implications of the Budget for the Northern Territory. Then, if time permits, I hope to follow on some of the comments made by my colleague,  Senator Button,  as to the effect of government policies on education as indicated by the Budget. Let us look then at the reaction in the Northern Territory to the Budget as shown in the newspapers. On Wednesday, 16 August, the  Northern Territory News,  which is a Murdoch newspaper and certainly not known for its support of Labor, but rather for its strong support ibr the Government, had this to say: 
Australia awoke this morning to face what has been described as a 'brutal budget' and the toughest in more than a decade. 
Let the people pay . . . that was the Treasurer's message last night when he announced a wide range of cuts and increases which will hit the pockets of almost everyone. 
That was the comment on page 1. Further on in the newspaper there was a comment by a man who would have been the Treasurer in the Northern Territory had he not had the misfortune to lose his seat to an excellent Labor candidate. This embryo Treasurer had this to say: 
Annual budgets always bring both good news and bad news and this year we've got a lot of both in the Federal Budget handed down in Parliament last night. 
Tough taxation (both direct and indirect) is going to be paid by each one of us! We are going to feel the pinch. 
First, the bad news- we are all going to make big sacrifices out of our pockets. 
He was a little vague about the good news. Later on in his article he deteriorated into an exercise of back-slapping in order to keep in sweet with his colleagues who were then in the Assembly. The article on page 4 of the same edition was a little more realistic. Under the heading 'We'll pay more for less ', it stated: 
The Government intends to cut the deficit this financial year by making the taxpayers pay more for less. 
Total outlays will increase by 7.7 per cent in money terms, a decrease in real terms taking into account the 9.5 per cent Consumer Price Index increase since the last Budget. 
But Government receipts, bolstered by the increased income tax rates, excise on drink and cigarettes and crude oil parity charges, are estimated to rise by 1 1 per cent. 
On the same page as that comment was a comment from  Mr Hawke  who spoke about the massive trick' whereby the average person in Australia would be charged $7.50 a week by the Budget, and we will see as I proceed through my comments that the people in the Northern Territory will pay much more. In the same issue the Australian Democrats had this to say about the Budget: 
The Darwin Branch of the Australian Democrats had described the Federal Budget as dull, unimaginative, and an admission of failure . . . They will increase unemployment and no recognition of how to solve this problem is  given . . . The tragic attack on wage indexation is regretted and the threat to further cut staff ceilings in the Public Service is deplorable when no alternatives have been offered to take up this surplus of labour. 
Before we look at the implications for the Northern Territory, let me say that we must see the Federal Budget for the Northern Territory in the light of the present situation in the Northern Territory following two years of Federal action, the effect of two previously damaging budgets as far as the Northern Territory is concerned. I have dealt with these issues since I became a member of this place. I have talked about cutbacks in government spending, staff ceilings, acrosstheboard cuts and the lack of stimulus and I have shown that this has resulted in a continued winding down of our economy. I have talked about the massive unemployment in the Northern Territory and the reduction of services offered by the Public Service because of shortages of staff. In fact the Northern Territory was sustained only by the effect of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission spending a legacy of the Labor Government. Of course, this has now finished and things are bound to get worse. I will not dwell on the situation because I have covered it previously. It is interesting that in the Australian Capital Territory we are talking at present, as we have done for three years, about keeping the building industry going. We have talked about building a new and permanent parliament house so that the building industry will not slump. Certainly that is what has happened in the Northern Territory because we have not a sympathetic attitude by the Government towards the problems faced by the building industry in the Northern Territory. 
Let me look now at two or three sectors in turn. I look first at education because that is of particular interest to me. I will be fairly brief because I intend to cover a few of these aspects later in the speech.  Mr Adermann,  the Minister for the Northern Territory, said that the Budget was fair and reasonable in the light of prevailing economic conditions'. Then he went on to say that 'it further restrains expenditure'. People in the Northern Territory were not quite as confident as  Mr Adermann.  The General Secretary of the Teachers Federation said that the Federation 's worst fears have been realised. The Director of Education said that funds provided for the operation of the Department reflected the no growth or limited growth policies being applied by the Federal Government at the present time. I stress that we must look at the situation in the Northern Territory, as I said previously, in the light of what has happened over the past two years- the problem of staff ceilings and so on. 
The Budget does not recognise or appreciate the special problems in the Northern Territory. I give one simple indication of this. A primary school in the Northern Territory in the suburb of Rapid Creek in Darwin has an enrolment of 32 1 students. Let me give a breakdown of that figure of 321: Aboriginals, including part-Aboriginals, 69; English speaking origin, 125; and racial origin other than English, 127. Yet there is the same staff/student ratio in that school as for every other school in the Territory, and this has not changed since 1973. The choice for teachers is quite obviously which group to assist. One group must suffer. The number of aides has been cut and the number of remedial teachers has been cut and so the teacher has to decide what he or she can do with the problems that they face in that multicultural situation. In real terms the education expenditure has been increased by 0.05 per cent, and this is completely inadequate to bring Northern Territory schools up to, for example, ACT standards by July 1979. The Senate will remember that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  said that he would hand over in the Northern Territory a system which was viable and which was comparable with any in Australia. There is no chance whatsoever in the present situation of handing over an effectively working system, let alone one that can be compared with that in the ACT. In some areas there have been massive cuts in education expenditure. Expenditure on furniture and fittings has been cut from $750,000 to less than $500,000. Expenditure on libraries and the media centre has been cut. In fact there was such a strong feeling about this that a public meeting was held in Darwin to talk about it. This is a comment of a newspaper about this meeting: 
. federation members were outraged at the news that the Federal Government proposed cutting funding for school libraries in the NT from $ 1 70,000 to $70,000. 
Expenditure for the film library could also be cut from $80,000 to $30,000 . . . 
These cuts would drastically affect the quality of education offered in the Territory. 
This is a further extension of the Government's deliberate policy of reducing funding for Government schools in favor of private schools. 
The Federation finds the proposed cuts particularly cynical on the part of the Education Minister,  Senator Carrick  . . . 
It goes on to describe what  Senator Carrick  said about the number of books which students should have. The article moved on to talk about the Aboriginal situation: 
Cutbacks in educational spending mean parents will have to dig deeper into their own pockets to provide essential school equipment,  Mr Bob  Collins . . . said yesterday. 
The tragedy will be greatest in those schools where the parents just cannot afford to buy books and films. 
The parents of Aboriginal children in my electorate live a subsistence existence and it's difficult enough for them to provide their children with a nutritious diet, let alone library books and films. 
So it goes on. Aboriginal schools in particular need libraries and visual aids, and I was interested to hear  Senator Davidson  talk about the bilingual situation and the assistance that has been given to it in the Northern Territory. I would hope that he might go up and look at what is really happening in the Northern Territory and the number of bilingual programs which are not working because the staff are not available, because no ancillary staff are available, because money is not available for part time instructors, and so on. Aboriginal students need concrete material and visual aids and the expenditure for both of these have been cut. On 8 May this year I asked the Minister the following question: 
1 ) Will the staffing levels in Northern Territory schools be brought up to acceptable standards before the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly accepts responsibility for education. 
Will repairs and maintenance to school buildings be increased to ensure that the buildings are in a satisfactory condition to be transferred. 
I got this extraordinary reply from the Minister: 
Staffing levels for schools in the Northern Territory need to reflect the particular circumstances that exist throughout the Territory. There are problems with repairs and maintenance for schools in the Territory. 
He is certainly right there- there are problems involving repairs and maintenance for schools in the Northern Territory and staffing levels for schools need to reflect the particular circumstances that exist, but they patently do not. This is quite obvious if one looks at the situation. He had this additional comment to make: 
Discussions are continuing between the Northern Territory administration and the Commonwealth concerning arrangements for the efficient transfer of responsibilities in the education area. 
I think that we might term that the off-loading of responsibility for education in the Northern Territory. It is quite right that we need to look at the problems of the Northern Territory and that the policies need to reflect the needs of the community, but they do not. 
I want to move quickly now to the area of health. Last year the Department of Health in the Northern Territory spent $2Wm less than was allocated. In other words, money was allocated and the Department spent  %2lAm  less than that. The reason was the shortage of staff because of the staff ceilings which operate in the Northern Territory. I have constantly been drawing attention to the situation, as have some of my colleagues.  Senator Ryan  in particular has drawn attention to the Aboriginal communities and the health problems they face because of inadequate staffing. This year the budget will be cut by 2.5 per cent without taking into account the inflation rate, which is nearly 10 per cent. We have a situation in the Northern Territory at present where in the dental clinics one must go on a waiting list to get on the waiting list to be treated. We have a situation where the numbers of trainee nurses have been cut drastically and this just prior to the opening of a large regional hospital. I have raised the point in this chamber previously. I have asked the Minister whether it is a fact that two floors of this new regional hospital will be given over to office space, because we have not got the staff to utilise them. This has been denied but a number of people in the Northern Territory will be looking to see what happens when the Casuarina Hospital opens. This situation would not happen in the other States. I am sure that it does not happen in the ACT where the Federal Government is also responsible. It certainly should not happen in the Northern Territory. We cannot talk about the transfer of power to the Northern Territory. We cannot hide behind the fact that power is to move to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. We have done that for too long. The situation has existed ever since this Government came to power. I would like to refer to a comment made by  Dr Everingham  who was probably one of the best Ministers for Health that we have ever seen in the Federal sphere. He said: 
Aboriginal health has also been hit by this Government despite promises by the Prime Minister and by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
He went on to say how bad the situation is in the Northern Territory. He continued: 
The Government cannot afford to break election promises in such a sensitive area, especially in light of the fact that the Aboriginal infant mortality in Australia is as high as 98 per thousand in some areas. It is one of the highest rates in the world and five times greater than that of the white population. About 60 per cent of Aboriginal people in Central Australia over 60 years of age are blind and 30 per cent of Aboriginal children under 1 1 years of age have trachoma. Because of the lack of preventive medical services and health services, on average urban Aboriginal children cost the Government hundreds of dollars a year per child in remedial medical costs. 
I shall now deal with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. All over Australia operational funds of the Commission have been cut by 3 per cent. This has led  Mr Duckmanton,  the General Manager, to make this statement: 
We must accept the fact that the year will bring us a fair measure of discomfort. 
What an under-statement that is. In no other area is it more clear that we must look at what we have before we look at the cuts. I have already commented on the fact that the transmitter in Darwin has been shipped off to Shepparton. That occurred after the people of Darwin had waited 1 5 years for it. There is virtually no local content in television programs in the Northern Territory. Staff ceilings are critical. There is very little local content in our radio programs. Until recently one talks man was available to do all the programs, including the rural programs. The situation is well illustrated by a request I made that programs televised in Queensland be transmitted to the Northern Territory during the school holidays.  Mr Duckmanton  replied to my request in these terms: 
I refer to your letter . . . requesting the ABC to transmit to the Northern Territory during school holidays there, the special children's television programs which are being transmitted from ABQ Queensland during the school holidays in that State, and any special radio programs. 
. we are mindful of the special needs of children living in the relative isolation of the Northern Territory and gave every consideration to the request for special television programs. I regret however that our facilities and manpower are such that we could not undertake this additional program recording and replaying commitment without seriously eroding our ability to maintain the existing level of local television output from our Darwin studios. 
That sounds very good until it is realised that the local content amounts to roughly five minutes a day on week days and nothing on weekends. 
It is a scandalous situation. Yet it can be said that that amount of local content could not be eroded. Certainly the local content component could not really be eroded to less than five minutes. There is virtually no coverage of current affairs in the Northern Territory. There is virtually no coverage of local sport. Again that situation exists because of staff shortages. This is another example of broken promises. When members of the Government were campaigning on the election trail they said: 'We will hook up Adelaide River, Newcastle Waters, Mataranka and Pine Creek'. They explained that that would not be expensive because the masts already existed. According to ABC sources this proposal may be considered in 1979-80. No comment has been made about what will happen to Radio Australia. An article which appeared in the  Sunday Times  in Perth reads: 
Radio Australia is losing its appeal in a number of overseas countries. 
Radio Australia has been pushing out a comparatively weak shortwave signal since Cyclone Tracy wrecked Radio Australia's most powerful shortwave station at Darwin in 1974. 
Although the Federal Government earmarked more than $9 million for the repair of the Darwin station, it has been slow in releasing the funds. 
I might remind honourable senators that it is only four years since cyclone Tracy hit Darwin. I commend the staff of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for what they are doing in the Northern Territory. They are dedicated and keen, but they are completely frustrated by a shortage of personnel and a shortage of funds. That is what the Budget is doing to the ABC in the Northern Territory. 
Let me turn now to the increase in the cost of petrol. When we are looking at this matter we must remember the size of the Territory and the fact that most of the freight for the Northern Territory is brought in by road or by air, both of which means of transport use fuel. It has been agreed for many years that the people in the Northern Territory need to go south for the sake of their health. So what is the effect of the increase? Freight charges will increase by at least 2 per cent, which means that the cost of goods will go up by at least 5 per cent. The situation is bad for town dwellers but it is disastrous for the people in the rural areas in the Territory. Ansett Airlines of Australia anticipates a 5 per cent increase in air fares. The economy air fare from Darwin to Sydney now is $423.80. If such an increase were to apply, the fare would increase to $444.99. For the expenditure of the same amount of money one could go to Bali and return or to Singapore and return. Pensioners will be unable to afford to run their cars. That situation in the Territory has been exacerbated by a massive increase in registration fees and third party insurance fees. I have asked that this matter be looked at but I am still waiting for an answer. The cost of living will rise significantly for those who stay at home and simply eat and watch the sun set. That is forgetting about the few who would like their cigarettes or their beer and who perhaps would like to have water and sewerage connected to their properties. 
Let us look at the effect of income tax increases on the Northern Territory. It is recognised, of course, that Territorians receive as a result of higher hourly rates and zone allowances approximately $40 a week more than their counterparts in the southern States. This allows for the differences in the cost of living. You would know,  Mr Deputy President,  that a three-bedroom house in the Northern Territory costs at least $60,000 and probably more. The rent payable on such a dwelling would be $100 to $150 a week. The rent payable for a two-bedroom flat would be $45 to $60 a week. These rates are amongst the highest in Australia, and so are the rates imposed by the local council, despite what  Senator Davidson  had to say earlier. A sliced loaf of bread costs 60c, a lettuce costs $1.50, and so on. I make the point that the cost of living in the Northern Territory is high. Other honourable senators have shown that the proposed increase in income tax will mean for the rest of Australia an increase of 8 per cent for those who earn up to $300 a week. It will mean a greater increase for people in the Northern Territory. More people in the Territory will be affected. No indication has been given that zone allowances will be increased to compensate for the higher cost of living. There is no appreciation of the differences between the Northern Territory and other parts of Australia, but that is usual in relation to the across the board decisions on which the Government is so keen. 
I would like now to look briefly at the plight of the pensioners in the Northern Territory. My comments would apply also to pensioners throughout Australia.  Mr Howard  said at the Press club on 16 August: 
The Budget does contain some different and unpopular decisions. The Government is conscious of this. In framing those decisions the Government took great care to avoid inequitable treatment of certain sections of the community. 
I wonder to which sections of the community he was referring. They certainly did not include the pensioners. It seems that his lack of understanding of life shown in this instance is similar to that shown in relation to the means testing of the earnings of newspaper boys. He just does not know how pensioners in the Northern Territory live. Let me remind him that they do not receive a zone allowance to balance the high cost of living. They receive no assistance in relation to fares. They are subject to a six-monthly indexation of their pensions. Benefits arrive at least six months late and there is a corresponding gap in increases in line with the consumer price index. 
I have already referred to the high cost of living. The situation has been made worse by the fact that in the Northern Territory pensioners do not receive the concessions that are made available elsewhere. Let me take one example to illustrate the point. I refer to Housing Commission tenants who are sick or unemployed. In most States the rent payable by such people is reduced by approximately one-fifth. In the Northern Territory there is no rebate. As far as water rates are concerned, in New South Wales pensioners receive a 50 per cent rebate. In South Australia no recovery action is taken and the rates accumulate. In the Australian Capital Territory production of the pension card alone gives a pensioner a 50 per cent rebate. Pensioners in the Northern Territory receive nothing at all. No provision at all is made to look after the pensioner who gets into trouble. I could go on to speak about car registration fees, the renting of houses and so on. However, I would like to refer to a comment made by the Leader of the Opposition in Darwin. He said: 
In truth this Budget is a vicious attack on all Australians but it is particularly savage for Territorians. 
In the time left to me I wish to look very briefly at the effect of Government policies as demonstrated by the Budget in the field of education. Federal governments, whether they like it or not, play a significant role in shaping the education of our children and, through them, moulding the future of our country. It is not trite to say that the wealth of our country is its children, and the adequacy or otherwise of their preparation determines the sort of life we are to enjoy in the next generation. So Federal governments do determine the future of our country by their policies. 
Let us examine the direction of the policies of the present Government. It is not easy to do this because it is not sufficient to read the policies. It is as futile to read its policies as it is to listen to the policy speeches or the promises made on the election trail. Words are cheap and almost anyone can frame what might be called a good educational policy. We cannot confine ourselves only to education. We must look at the statements in other areas. We must look at other policies that have vital bearings. 
I would like to look very quickly at the situation in schools, particularly in the Northern Territory because that is the pacesetter, that is the area that  Senator Carrick  said would set the standard for the rest of Australia and the one which he said would be a viable and effective unit when he handed it over in July of next year. I would like to look at the effects of staff ceilings and at the effects of building programs. In other words, in the few minutes that I have, I would like to do a Freeman Butts on assumptions underlying the policies of the Government as Freeman Butts did on assumptions underlying education in Australia. There will be some comparison with the Labor Government because it was truly a pacesetter in this field. 
What then is the direction that we can observe in the present Government? The direction is backwards or what I would call a return; a return to the elitist system, a return to a situation in which public schools, meaning the private schools, give the real education and the Government just gives the rest; a complete rejection of the needs concept in the guidelines given to the Schools Commission, and this, we all know, is the strength of it; a return to the divisiveness part of the elitist system. I have commented before on how Professor Anderson said that one of the strengths of Labor was the fact that it overcame so much of this divisiveness. In his speech to the Australian College of Education he said: 
The absence of dogma in the Labor Government's policy has made it possible to achieve something of a consensus within the community at large. It is remarkable how the educational debate has been  depoliticised,  with the focus shifting from the long standing controversy over State-aid to unexceptionable issues such as equality and need. 
The Government's policy is a return to government control by the States. As Anderson comments, the lack of dogma is a strength because it puts the decision for education back where it belongs- back in the community, back in the hands of the commissions, back in the hands of the experts and away from the policy that government knows best. We are now back to political decisions, back to making education a political football. A return of education to the States can mean a return to the past, a resistance to change. It is so easy to 'carry on' and the consequence of this carrying on is a tendency to what we know as traditional education or academic-type education. It is easier because it is what we are used to doing. We tend to educate those who are responsive to this sort of academic or traditional type of education. The corollary of this is that we tend to ignore those who do not respond; we tend to have less emphasis on counselling. 
We will have all this, despite the fact that if we have learned anything over the last few years it is that university oriented education at the primary and the secondary levels, which is what it amounts to, is not appropriate for the bulk of the population. We get a tendency to the sort of rationalisation that we hear so often from the Minister, the sort of rationalisation that says class sizes are not important or are not significant, the quoting of a piece of research which overlooks the fact that the researcher was looking at a number of factors and not just one, and the researcher was looking at the acquisition of skills, not at the development of attitudes or the development of understandings. Good education, if I can use that phrase, is not a matter of facts to be stored or even skills to be acquired, although these are important. Surely it means understandings to be developed and attitudes to be changed. 
We get another sort of rationalisation from the Minister that it is the quality of education that counts. Of course it is the quality of education that counts, but what do we mean by the 'quality of education'? What is the definition of 'quality of education'? Certainly we do not accept the implication the Minister puts in that money is not important and that resources are not important. The simple fact is that the standard of education, by whatever criteria we want to use, is falling in the poorer non-government schools. Class sizes are increasing, there is a lack of range of educational opportunities available and there is a lack of resources. These things are all related to money, and money also is involved in the nogrowth philosophy of the present Government. 
Even if we overlook the increases in numbers which must come each year, even if we overlook the effects of inflation at the present time, there was not enough in the 1976 Budget and there was not enough in the 1977 Budget. The Minister, in one of his usual statements, will say: 'Ah, yes, but what about Labor in 1975?' Like his leader, he has a very convenient memory. He forgets 1973 and he forgets 1974. There is no doubt that he would have been critical if Labor had not pulled back on the massive acceleration that it had in the programs in 1973 and 1974. He also conveniently forgets the shocking record prior to 1972. The terrific backlog in buildings and services was not fully met by Labor. It moved the Austraiian Teachers Federation to report on the conditions in many schools and I wish I had time to be able to read that to the Senate. 
I would like to speak of the services to migrants, the disadvantaged, adult education and technical and further education but I do not have time to do so in this debate. I just want to refer briefly to staff ceilings in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory where the subject is fairly topical at the moment. If there are low ceilings, if the ceilings are put on, this means that more professionals and less ancillary staff will be recruited with the obvious result that professionals will be doing non-professional work- a complete and utter waste of resources. Ceilings mean less diagnostic and remedial work. Remedial work is so important in all areas of education. No ancillary staff means that the handicapped cannot be educated adequately. A cut in travelling expenditure means that advisers are not able to get out into the field to do the job that they are supposed to be doing. I have been complaining about this ever since I became a member of this Senate. A cut in building maintenance expenditure means that there is no cyclical maintenance. If we would like to look at some of the Prime Minister's happy little homilies that he uses, perhaps we should adopt the stitch in time technique so far as building maintenance is concerned. 
Finally I would like to refer to the comment of Professor Anderson to the Australian College of Education when he said: 
At this point, however, the major achievement of the Labor Government must be seen as the moves in the direction of consensus . . . Needs has been accepted by all major interest groups as the basis for funding. It is accepted that the disadvantaged children- whether defined according to social or psychological criteria- have a special claim . . . It has been accepted that a group of experts, open to public opinion, should be permitted to make judgments and make recommendations to the government accordingly . . . This achievement will, I believe, be judged by history to be a great one. 
I submit that the present Government has moved away from this and has attempted to wipe out all the achievements of that time. There has been a regression, a return to the past, despite criticism justly levelled at that philosophy and practice. The Government stands condemned for steering education away from sound movement forward- an action for which the young people will pay now and the country will pay later. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) How many persons on the major Aboriginal settlements in the Northern Territory received unemployment benefits during the period from 1 August 1977 to 31 July 1978. 
Do the figures provided represent the total number of unemployed at the settlements concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) Are only one full-time sister and one part-time sister available at Yuendumu to meet the health needs of a population of 1 ,400 people. 
Are these sisters expected to train Aboriginal Health workers as well as providing health services to the people at Yuendumu. 
Is there no emergency generator at the hospital, despite the fact that all life support and emergency systems at the centre are electrically powered. 
If the answers to parts (1) to (3) are 'yes', what action does the Government propose to take to remedy the situation at Yuendumu. 
-On behalf of  Senator Evans  I present the following petition from 89 citizens of Australia: 
The Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the Victorian Federation of State School Parents ' Clubs respectfully showeth:- 
That as citizens of Victoria and parents of State school children, we are most concerned that the quality of education available in our school be of the highest possible standard. 
We believe that this can only be achieved if adequate Federal funds are provided. The recently announced policy of direct cuts to Government schools for 1 979 must have an adverse effect on them. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should arrange for: 
Withdrawal of the Guidelines to the Schools Commission for 1979 and acceptance of its recommendations for Government schools. 
An increase of a minimum of 5 per cent in real terms on base level programmes for 1979. 
Restoration of the $8 million cut from the Capital Grants for Government Schools. 
Increased recurrent and capital funding to Government schools. and your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs been drawn to a statement made yesterday by the Northern Territory Director of Health, addressing the first national conference of Aboriginal health workers in Darwin, that in most cases unemployment in Aboriginal communities ran at more than 50 per cent? The Director is reported further as saying: 'No wonder a sense of hopelessness has overtaken such communities, giving rise to excessive drinking, petrol-sniffing, and a breakdown of law and order'. Would the Minister confirm or deny that unemployment is of the order claimed by the Director and, if it is, indicate what steps are being taken by the Government to overcome the problem, which has such disastrous consequences? 
-On behalf of  Senator Gietzelt,  I present the following petition from 296 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Fraser Government was elected in December 197S after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index figures; and whereas that Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November; it is the current intention of the same Government to legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics of democratic government and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to their subsistence- 
The foregoing facts impel the undersigned petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that the trustworthiness of governments should at all times be above question, and to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian pensioners by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of pension rates. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware that students at the Darwin Community College are concerned about the future of the College when responsibility for education is transferred to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in July 1979? Will responsibility for the college be transferred to the Assembly or will it remain with the Commonwealth? I further ask the Minister to reassure the students that their accreditation will not be affected regardless of who has responsibility for the College. 
-Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to a recent speech by  Mr Justice  Muirhead in which, when discussing the Family Law Act, he said: 'The judges are undertaking unacceptable work loads, counsellors are at their wit's end, the welfare officers despite best endeavours find it almost impossible to keep up to date '?  Mr Justice  Muirhead described the family law counsellors as a vital arm of the system and drew attention to the fact that the system is understaffed by at least 30 per cent in this area. Will the AttorneyGeneral investigate this matter and give consideration to the relaxation of staff ceilings so that the people of Darwin are given adequate counsellors and the people at Katherine, Tennant Creek and Alice Springs, where there are at present no counsellors, will have the advantage of this vital arm of the system? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 222 citizens of Australia: 
The  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that we are gravely concerned over the extreme weakness shown by our Prime Minister and his Government in his handling of the uranium mining situation in the Northern Territory. 
While the Parliament allows a small group of antigovernment advisers to Aboriginal organisations to delay the commencement of mining the great majority of citizens and business people are being caused financial loss, and being denied the right to participate in a legitimate business. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that permission be given- and not again withdrawn- for mining to commence immediately. 
Petition received and read. 
The Acting Clerk- Petitions have been lodged for presentation as follows: 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister will be aware that advance purchase excursion fares are finally available to the people of Darwin. However, the concession rates are not available to other centres in the Northern Territory, such as Katherine, Tennant Creek and Alice Springs, which are also disadvantaged by being isolated from the rest of Australia. Will the Minister undertake to make inquiries into the possibility of APEX fares being made available to these centres? 
-I present the following petition from 439 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1) retain this Ordinance, and 
) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs refers to the recent signing of the Ranger agreement. I ask: Is it a fact that less than half the traditional land owners eligible to sign the agreement did in fact sign despite the published comment of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that the agreement had the unanimous support of traditional land owners? Is it a fact that at the Bamyili meeting a motion was moved and seconded that the Northern Land Council leadership be declared vacant and that at least 12 members spoke in favour of that motion? Is it also a fact that the Minister is on record as denying that there were challenges to the leadership? 
Can the Minister assure the Senate that all Northern Land Council representatives were advised of the time, place and purpose of the meeting at which the decision to sign was taken? Did the Minister tell members of the Northern Land Council that the agreement would be translated and sent to communities only after it had been signed? If these are facts, is the Minister satisfied that what has been called an historic document truly represents the wishes of the Aboriginal people involved and meets the requirements of section 23 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
1 ) Will the Alice Springs Community College remain the responsibility of the Minister's Department when the Northern Territory Department of Education is transferred to the Legislative Assembly on 1 July 1979; if so, what is the future of the Alice Springs College and, in particular, its relationship to the Darwin College. 
) Will the Minister make available to the Senate the two reports ofthe Further Education Council making recommendations on this matter. 
Is the delay in making a decision having adverse effects on the planning and administration of the Alice Springs College. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) Has the allocation for school libraries in the Northern Territory been cut by $77,000 and the allocation for the Media Centre by $67,000; if so, where was the decision to reduce these allocations made. 
If the decision was made in Darwin, will the Minister ensure that further consideration is given to this matter which has caused so much concern among both parent and teacher organisations in the Northern Territory. 
If the decision was made in Canberra, will the Minister ensure that the brunt of the cut in allocation is spread over a whole front to avoid disadvantage to Aboriginal schools. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that railway employees stationed at Alice Springs have petitioned the General Manager of the Australian National Railways seeking that they be provided with free return air travel to any capital city in Australia every two years? Is it also a fact that other Federal Government employees stationed in the Northern Territory have this condition of service? If these are facts will the Minister indicate why the railway employees are not provided with air fares and will he undertake to investigate the claim made by the employees of the Australian National Railways. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) What are the details of the contract for the proposed air charter service designed to provide a surveillance service for the Northern Territory. 
What are the conditions of the chaner, and the frequency of the service to be provided. 
-On behalf of my colleague  Senator Wheeldon,  1 present the following petition from 67 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
We are debating the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1978-79 and the subject matter of that Bill has already been canvassed by the people who have spoken. On this occasion I take the opportunity to speak about a number of minor matters which are related to the Appropriation Bill. I hope to talk about the role of the Estimates committees, the assistance that is given to the functioning of the committees and the contribution that is made by the departments both to the committee activity and to the work that follows the committee activity, plus one or two problems which we have found in the Estimates committees which I am a member, namely, Estimates Committee D. 
When I was first elected to this Parliament some three years ago the committees were well established and, like other things that one accepts when one moves into this chamber, I accepted them as part of the procedure of the House. I did not appreciate that they had been introduced into the proceedings of the Senate only comparatively recently and that a good deal of thought had gone into setting them up and giving them the role which they were to play. Recently I did what I should have done a long time ago- namely, shortly after I was elected to this place- that is, to go back and look at the original purpose of the Senate Estimates committees to see the background which went into the setting up of those committees. For the comments that I am going to make I have drawn heavily on two excellent articles by the  Deputy Clerk, Mr Bullock-  one in the  Parliamentarian,  No. 2 of 1971, and the other in volume 40 of the  Table.  In all sincerity, I commend these to the newer members of the Senate- those who have come here since 1972. 
In the interests of those honourable senators and perhaps one or two others, I will give a little of the background of the Estimates committees. As the older senators know, they grew out of the Clerk's report of 17 March 1970 and are based on the Canadian system. The then Leader of the Government,  Sir Kenneth  Anderson, in June 1970 put forward a proposition that five committees be established. There was some discussion between the government, the Opposition and the then minority group, the Democratic Labor Party, on whether the established committees could handle the matters that were going to be put before the Estimates Committees. I will not go into the debate that ensued but simply make the comment that the decision was made at that time to establish five Estimates Committees. As to the purpose of the Committees, the Leader of the Opposition at that time,  Senator Murphy,  when speaking in the debate on the fifth report of the Standing Orders Committee on 28 September 1972, as recorded at page 1331 of  Ilansard,  had this to say: 
After all, the purpose of the Estimates Committees is to examine on behalf of this chamber, in effect, the public accounting of expenditure for the previous financial year and the necessity for and details of the proposed expenditure for the current financial year. 
I emphasise here the two roles to which  Senator Murphy  drew attention. One was the public accounting of expenditure for the previous financial year, and I will have some more words to say later about accountability and public accounting, and the other was the necessity for and the de-  tails of the proposed expenditure for the current financial year. That second role breaks down into two sections- the necessity for and the details of the proposed expenditure. I think it is fair to say that the Senate Estimates Committees were well received by both the Senate and the Press at that time. At the conclusion of his report the  President  had this to say: 
In conclusion, reference is made to the effect of operations of the committees on the Senate itself. With the specialised knowledge acquired by Senators at committee hearings, debate is noticeably more penetrating. There is a new and valuable rapport with officers of the Public Service. And with allparty goodwill, there is a recognition of the role of committees in the strengthening of the parliamentary system. 
A member of the then Opposition,  Senator McClelland,  made some comments which were quoted by the  Deputy Clerk, Mr Bullock,  in one of his articles. Speaking about  Senator McClelland, Mr Bullock  had this to say: 
He regarded the committee system as of paramount importance, not only because it would better inform Members of the Senate on administrative matters relating to the various departments but more importantly because it would maintain and assert the authority of the parliament over the executive and the bureaucracy. 
That is sufficiently important for me to read again.  Mr Bullock  quoted  Senator McClelland  as having said: 
. more importantly because it would maintain and assert the authority of the parliament over the executive and the bureaucracy. 
The Press was equally happy about the way in which the Senate Estimates Committees were operating and an article headed 'Revolution in the Senate ' in the Melbourne  Sunday Observer  of 25 October 1970 made the following comment: 
One thing is clear. These Senate Committees are getting the work done and eliciting more worthwhile information than ever they did under the old system. 
So, to sum up, I state my views, and I feel that they are shared by the members of Estimates Committees. The purpose of the Estimates Committees is to ascertain for John Citizen- perhaps we should call him Charlie Constituent in this case- or the people who provide the money through their taxes, the two things that  Senator Murphy  mentioned- the public accounting of expenditure for the previous financial year and the necessity for and the details of the proposed expenditure. It is given to Charlie Constituent or the elector to make his decision every three years but, let us face it, there is a long time between one election and the next, even with the present Government, so he needs a watchdog in the form of his representative over what is happening in the Estimates. 
We ail know that some governments feel that an election gives them a mandate to do almost anything and I have commented on this before in this place. We know very well that few voters accept everything in any one policy; they vote for the Party which they feel gives them the most or with whose policy they agree the most. It also needs to be said that some governments do not do what they said they would do when they made their policy speech and we have an excellent example of this in the present Government which sets about breaking promises. We all know that this Budget is called the Budget of broken promises. I do not want to labour this point but I stress that the elector, the constituent, needs eternal vigilance over what is happening with the money which he gives to the Government through his taxation for the running of the country. 
I repeat that the elector needs to know what the money is being spent on and why the decision was made to spend the money on a particular item and not on some other item. In other words, he needs to know the setting of the priorities. He needs to know also that his money is being well and wisely spent. I revert to the comment made in the Melbourne  Sunday 

 Observer back in 1970 and say that we are getting more work done and eliciting more worthwhile information than we did under the old system. I think that would be generally agreed by those who were here both before and after the introduction of Estimates Commitees. Why is this so? I believe there are a number of reasons. One is the assistance given by the departments appearing before the Estimates Committees. The majority of departments- I stress that it is the majority although there are one or two that do not do all they have to do or should do- do all they can and I commend them for it. They give us an excellent presentation of explanatory material in most cases. They are prepared to comply with requests from year to year with respect to the manner of presentation and the sort of information that we would like to see in the explanatory notes. We commend them for the quality of replies they give us. 
Some of the people who come before the Committees have absolutely encyclopedic knowledge of the workings of their department. I was moved to commend an officer from the Department of Construction,  Mr Rodda.  Despite the fact that his Department ranges all over Australia and does construction work for all the departments of Government, he was able to give full and detailed answers relating to places ranging from the Cocos Islands down to Tasmania and up to the north of Queensland. This sort of ability and the amount of background that this man has was well appreciated by the Committee. We commend officers for the open approach they bring to the Committee meetings. We expect this; nevertheless, they are to be commended. I will draw attention later to one or two instances where this did not happen, but in most cases the officers come openly and try to give as much information as they can. We commend them also for the quality of the additional material which is made available to us as a result of requests made by the Estimates Committees. 
I would like to make some comment about the work of the Committee secretariat and the work done by the secretaries not only in the organisation and the setting up of the Committees but also in the giving of assistance to the Committee members during the Committee hearings. I congratulate the Government on the appointment of research staff which is an innovation of the last twelve months. It is good to see research staff being made available to the Committees- not to individual members but to the Committees- to assist in going through the explanatory material and the appropriations. I draw attention to the contribution of Ministers because I feel that they have a particularly onerous task, and I will draw attention to it later. They have to answer questions on policy and protect their officers. However, all the Ministers with whom 1 have been associated in my brief time in this place have tried hard to be as helpful as they can be to the Committee members from both sides of the chamber. I refer also to the evenhanded approach of the chairmen, or perhaps chairpersons since some of the chairmen are women, for the way in which they allow the Government and Opposition members- in fact, all members of the Committee- to put their questions and then assist them in getting the answers for which they are looking. In the final analysis the strength of the Committees lies in their members. Some of the members do a lot of homework in the preparation of their questions. They seek information in what is basically a non-partisan way. When I was talking about the Ministers I indicated that we are all agreed that questions are put to them on matters of policy and questions are put to officials on matters of details, and the officers of the various departments must be protected by their Minister. 
I now draw attention to a couple of problem areas that have been identified during the recent hearings of my Committee. They perhaps extend back over a couple of years. The comments I make will be fairly general. Sometimes decisions are taken by government which are not covered by legislation and I put the question: Is it sufficient for the Minister to say in answer to a question that a decision has been taken by the Government to do such and such a thing without any reference to legislation which has been enacted? The Minister might simply say that a decision has been taken to do something and hope that the Committee, and through it the constituent, will be happy with the answer. I suggest that it is not sufficient simply to say: 'A decision has been taken'. Surely in line with the sorts of comments that were made in the initial debates in setting up the committees, some of the comments that have been made since in the reports and even some of the comments which I have read this evening, the Minister should be prepared to give reasons why a decision was taken. No doubt there are good reasons why that decision was taken but the public is entitled to know them. Of course in the national interest some decisions may not be disclosed but I would suggest that not many decisions would fall into this category. Most of the decisions taken are able to be made public knowledge through the medium of the Estimates Committee. 
This leads me to the next question: Should committee meetings be held in camera or should there be an opportunity available for a Minister or an officer to give information in camera? I will not canvass the debate that was held on this issue some years ago but I will read from the document entitled  Fifth Report from the Standing Orders Committee In Camera Evidence before Estimates Committees.  The  chairman  of that Committee,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, had this to say: 
The Standing Orders Committee has considered the matter and recommends that any decision that any Estimates Committee take  in camera  evidence shall be made only by the Senate itself upon receiving a Special Report from that particular Committee. 
That decision, after a good deal of argument, was agreed to by the Senate. So, the suggestion was made that in camera evidence is not to be given. But one should not see the Minister or the officers of the department concerned taking advantage of that decision. After all, any information which should be made available can be made available and it should not be necessary to come back to the Senate and ask that special approval be given for a committee to meet in camera. 
I would like to look now at the role of the statutory bodies and ask whether they should be exempt from making evidence available. I refer the Senate to the excellent speech made by  Senator Susan  Ryan on Wednesday of last week in which she dealt with this matter. I will not canvass the material which she covered, but will raise a few more points. It is quite clear that these groups- these statutory bodies- should not be exempt except in quite exceptional circumstances. I can immediately see one exceptional circumstance which was brought up during our recent estimate committee hearings. The officers of the Australian National Gallery declined to say what items they were going to purchase during the next 12 months, with a fairly logical explanation that, if they nominated the purchases they wished to make, obviously such a disclosure would have an effect on the market price. 
The members of Estimates Committee D were not happy about the way in which this information was given but that was probably because at that time there was a strong feeling that the National Gallery, through the Department of Home Affairs, had given very little information about its proposed activities. In fact, the Director made the extraordinary statement that we could look at the brochures which were sold at exhibitions of the Gallery if we wanted to find out what was going on. No brochures were offered to us. It was suggested that we might go out and get ourselves one of these brochures in order to find our how the National Gallery was spending the taxpayers' money. I submit that this was certainly not good enough. The taxpayer is entitled to have such information. The questions are put to us as parliamentarians and they are quite often put in fairly blunt ways. I put this point to our estimates committee. An example of the sorts of questions that people from my Territory ask is: What is the Government wasting our money on this year?' Perhaps that is just the manner of presentation of the question and I am not suggesting at all that money is wasted by the National Gallery. 
I think the taxpayer is entitled to know what the trend is of the buying of the department. The taxpayer provides the money for these statutory bodies- the National Gallery and many othersand he is entitled to know how it is being spent and of course why it is being spent. He is entitled to know what is the philosophy of the Gallery and what we are trying to do with the quite considerable amount of money that is allocated to it each year. I notice that  Senator Ryan  in her contribution drew attention to the fact that in considering the estimates of the Department of Home Affairs one  senator who  asked questions was told that he should read the annual report. Again, I do not think that is sufficient information. I think that the information contained in the annual report ought to have been available to the senator through the officers. It is interesting to note that the National Gallery and other groups miss the opportunity of some very good public relations work which we as parliamentarians can do as we move around the country. We could say what the Gallery is trying to do and what the different other statutory bodies are trying to do, and in that way win support for the case which they might want to put forward. 
The matter of a statutory body being required to give information extends to organisations funded by statutory bodies. I draw attention to bodies funded by the Australia Council. During the Estimates Committee hearings a suggestion was made that bodies funded by the Australia Council should appear before the Estimates Committee. The Minister considered this and said that he preferred the Council to handle the questions but, if the committee insisted, it could be arranged for members of these various bodies to come before it. I will read the comment made by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott).  He had this to say in the body of a letter addressed to  Senator Maunsell:   . . expenditure by the various bodies of funds provided by the Australia Council is the responsibility of the Council. 
This is the important part: 
This is not in any way to suggest that the organisations have no responsibility to the Parliament for the funds which are allocated to them. 
Two points arise out of that letter. Firstly, the Government suggests that, if the Committee insists, arrangements would be made for members of these bodies to come before the Committee. The second and most important point is the accountability of recipient organisations- in other words what  Senator Ryan  commented on; the reasons for them- this information should come to the Parliament through the Council. I realise that it throws a great deal of responsibility on the Council to be briefed on the activities of all the organisations which receive financial assistance and also to have for the benefit of members of estimates committees some indication of the reason why one organisation and not another was funded. Nevertheless, that is the role of the Council and it must be prepared to assume it at that time. 
We have a somewhat different situation with a large expenditure organisation such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. I am afraid this situation is a little like the Parkinson's Law situation and the old bicycle shed. If one looks at the records of Estimates Committee D one will find that following Parkinson's Law we spent a good deal of time considering items of several thousand dollars and unfortunately not quite so much time considering items of several million dollars. So, we ask the question here again in the same vein. Is it sufficient for the Minister or any of the officers to say: 'The Executive has decided that . . .' certain things should be done and give that as the only reason? Looking at the Murphy statement again, I submit that that is not sufficient. 
We are being told what is being done but we are not being told why it is being done. A cynic might come along and say: 'Perhaps you are duplicating research.' We actually had a case of that last year which we drew to the attention of CSIRO where some research was being done in one State and was being duplicated in another State. The same cynic might say: 'Perhaps all this research is being done only to allow officers to go off and get their PhDs '. I am not suggesting for a moment that I agree with this proposition but we must have the information why certain pieces of research are undertaken. An excellent document is being produced by CSIRO that shows what is being done. Now we need to have, through our estimates committees, if requested, an indication why these things are being done. 
Another point to which one might draw the attention of the Committee on which I have been sitting is the discrepancy between treatment of the Territories by the Federal Government. The Government must surely give reasons why the Australian Capital Territory is given favoured treatment over the Northern Territory. The public is entitled to know why this is so, if it is so. If a question comes up as to why this apparently preferential treatment is being given, we ought to be accorded the reason.  Hansard  will provide clear evidence of my views on this matter. I regard the Northern Territory as being very much the poor relation, compared with the Australian Capital Territory. Nevertheless, we are entitled to ask why certain moneys are being spent. It is not sufficient to say that the Government has so decided. Reasons should be given. 
I conclude by commending the Estimates committees system. Certainly, I find this a most worthwhile activity and one that I, as a comparative newcomer to this place, find extremely interesting. It allows the back bencher to make a contribution and to find out information for his electors. It gives the public information that it is entitled to have. I have already paid tribute to the majority of the departments that come before us. I consider that they make a magnificent contribution, as do the officers representing them at the hearings. I have also commended the secretariat of the committees. 
I ask the Government to look at the issues that I have raised, particularly the need for Ministers to give reasons for expenditure. I ask it to look at the rather special situation of the statutory bodies, I draw attention to the following comment by Estimates Committee B in 1971-72 when referring to the Broadcasting Control Board and the Australian Broadcasting Commission: 
The Committee is of the opinion that whilst it may be argued that these bodies are not accountable through the responsible Minister to Parliament for day-to-day operations, statutory corporations may be called to account to Parliament itself at any time and that there are no areas of expenditure of public funds where these corporations have a discretion to withhold details or explanations from Parliament or its committees unless the Parliament has expressly provided otherwise. 
I think that sums up the sort of thing for which I am looking. Certainly, if this is done we will have a situation such as that covered by these concluding remarks of the  President  's report in 1 970: 
In that favourable climate the Senate can go forward with confidence in the furthest development of its committee system. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Has the attention of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs been drawn to the attitude of the Malaysian 
Government and the Singapore Government to the 2,500 Vietnamese refugees aboard the  Hai Hong  as reported in the Press yesterday? Have approaches been made to the Australian Government by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to allow these refugees to settle in Australia? If no approach has been made, what will the Government's reaction be if the ship comes into Darwin harbour in the same way as the 46 refugee boats before it have done? 
-On behalf of  Senator Sibraa,  I present the following petition from 33 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled- 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index figures; and whereas that Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November; it is the current intention of the same Government to legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics of democratic government and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to their subsistence. 
The foregoing facts impel the undersigned Petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that the trustworthiness of governments should at all times be above question, and to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian pensioners by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of pension rates. 
And Your Petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and refer to the prefabricated homes supplied for erection on Groote Eylandt and Bathurst Island by Stawell Timber Industries. I ask: How many houses were built by this method at each of the communities? Is it a fact that the homes have a cyclone rating of category 1 but have been erected in an area of high cyclone probability? Is it the practice of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to put the supply of prefabricated homes out to tender? 
I raise a matter now that I raised at the Estimates committee. My senior colleagues have suggested that a comment should also be made in the Committee of the Whole. I refer to the need to include the Northern Territory in future planning in the areas of State-Federal relationships in relation to the making of allowances, grants and so on. When I asked why the Northern Territory was not included I was given the answer that it was either built into the total allocation- that is, the allocation given as a straight vote to the Northern Territory or that the job is still done through Federal departments. I am not sure that this is so. If it is so, it highlights the point which I have made on a number of other occasions that perhaps the move to selfgovernment was made a little before we were ready and before we had the infrastructure to handle it. There have been occasions on which I have had to draw attention to this in the past. Certainly I am not opposed to self-government in the Northern Territory. We have worked very hard to get it. The point has been made that perhaps we moved a huie too quickly for the infrastructure to be set up. This sort of ad hockery might be another example. I simply ask for an assurance from the Minister that the Northern Territory is covered in the various areas. I do not think I have to list them. I raised them at the Estimates committee. I would like an assurance from him that discussions will be held so that State type arrangements can be made and finalised before the next Estimates. 
I have only a brief comment to make. Once again I seek an assurance from the Minister that machinery exists to ensure that Northern Territory taxpayers will not be disadvantaged in the next few years. We know that the Constitution makes provision to ensure that one group will not be disadvantaged in respect of taxpaying when compared with the rest of Australia. There is no assurance that funds will be made available next year and it is not clear that there will be sufficient funds this year to ensure that the Territory operates as it should. I do not raise a question in that regard. I just say that we have received no real assurance. I recall that in the first year of its operation, 'gifts' were made to the Nothern Territory Government to make sure that it could operate. I commend the Government for that action, although it hints at the comment I made previously about the ad hockery of the arrangements. I just want an assurance from the Minister that machinery does exist and has been considered to make sure that Northern Territory taxpayers will not be disadvantaged if the money provided in the estimates is not sufficient for the fulfilling of the obligations of the new Government. 
Perhaps I could take that point one stage further. Obviously, I did not put the question clearly. I am referring simply to the fact that there was a good deal of discussion on financial arrangements between the Northern Territory Government and the Federal Government before the present arrangements were made. I am seeking an assurance that sufficient money will be made available to the Northern Territory to enable it to complete the functions that were previously carried out by the Federal Government. In other words, if it is found in this first year of operation that insufficient funds are available, then I am seeking an assurance that the Northern Territory taxpayers will not have to bear a heavy burden to meet the necessary administrative costs. Perhaps a gift or some other allowance can be made, as was done in the first year of operation, to make sure that the functions of the Northern Territory continue. Let us face it, this is a new adventure for both governments and although a lot of work was put into trying to make sure that there will be sufficient funds, this may not be so. I am seeking an assurance here that the Federal Government will not cast the Northern Territory adrift to let it sink or swim but rather, in terms of financial arrangements, will keep some sort of paternal eye on it. 
I rise to support  Senator Bishop  in the motion which he has moved. Naturally, I agree with what he has said and I will not reiterate the points he has made. It is good to see that the first two speakers in this debate were from South Australia. I am sure that the people in the Northern Territory will be encouraged to know that their colleagues from the south are supporting them in this important venture. Let me make a brief comment on a couple of the points that  Senator Jessop  made- in no sense of criticism. He was concerned with development in South Australia. That is understandable. That is the role he has to play, as we all have to. But we have to be careful that we do not allow some of the arguments which were being used for the development of a link with the north to be confused in this way. After all, some of the points he was making, although they would gain from the link, relate to something a little more specific. I think we have to press firstly for the link. 
I take the point that  Senator Jessop  is making. He did later on and he did originally support the link. It is quite clear, of course, as  Senator Bishop  has implied, that South Australia cannot possibly do this job itself with the small amount of money it is given each year. I think the period that was mentioned when we had our deputation was of the order of 30 years if the prices stayed the same. The general feeling around the table was that by the time we got to the other end the first few kilometres would be worn out. In other words, the situation is just not practical. The money must come from the Federal Government and must be made available, as perhaps  Senator Jessop  has suggested, by special allocation or as part of the national program. I do not think it is important how it comes, as long as the money comes from the Federal Government for the specific project. That is the purpose of this motion. 
I was a member of the delegation that met with the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  It is interesting to note that it was an allparty deputation and was composed of Federal, State, territory and local politicians. They were supported in the deputation by private enterprise. There is no doubt that the whole of that group agreed that there should be a road link. There is no doubt, I think, around this place that there should be some sort of link. The general agreement is that it should be a road link, not a composite link. We do not have to rehash all the arguments about the cost of freight, the high cost of living in the Northern Territory, and so on. These are important, but they have been canvassed adequately. Should we have a road, rail or sea link? I refer to the Darwin and Nothern Territory Freight Transport Study by the Bureau of Transport Economics. I will read just part of the second paragraph of the conclusions: 
The study has shown that road investment offers the least cost solution of meeting the Northern Territory's transport requirements. Road has several advantages, for the low traffic volumes occurring in the NT it is substantially cheaper in total resource cost terms than sea and rail; it also has a faster transit time than either of the competing modes. Road transport operates in small units and is much more responsive to changes than either rail or sea. Given the uncertainties involved in predicting the Northern Territory's future, such flexibility is a great advantage. Further the internal competition between road operators is the best guarantee, not only that costs will be kept to a minimum, but that prices will reflect costs. 
I could go on with some of the additional comments there. The point that has been made by the two previous speakers is that obviously this must be seen as a national problem, not one simply of a State or a Territory. 
I must just mention, without going into great detail, the obvious reasons why this is so. Firstly, there is the matter of defence, where a road link is absolutely vital. There is little point in having troops stopping to be swapped over from rail transport to road transport to go through. It is not only the movement of troops, it is the servicing of troops and so on. Another point that I have mentioned in this place before is the development of Darwin. I was pleased to see that  Senator Jessop  dwelt a good deal on development. I refer to the development of Darwin as an entrepot; the possibility of trade links with the north of Australia. This, of course, would lead to the development of the harbour facilities which are languishing now because they are not getting enough service. We need to have more ships coming into the harbour. To have that we need some good contact between Darwin and the south. It is also important that we make Darwin viable. Darwin was established as an administrative centre and partly as a defence centre- but basically as an administrative centre. This is an unnatural and artificial situation. If we can get a good link between Darwin and the south we will see it move from being an administrative centre to being a viable city in its own right. Of course, this is related to the development that goes on around it. 
There is a good potential for tourism. Many of us in this place have mentioned that. There is some doubt that the passenger train is going to run when the broad gauge link is made. I will make some comments about that in a few minutes. People prefer to drive and there is a wonderful potential for tourism in the north that one cannot gainsay. This is a national responsibility, not simply a State responsibility. I claim that the Federal Government has a distinct responsibility for the development of the north, since we are not a State and for some years will not be a State but will be a self-governing Territory. A point was hinted at by  Senator Jessop.  No doubt the Minister, when he replies, will say, Yes, but they want roads in Western Australia too. They want roads in the north of my State'. The Queenslanders will say: 'Yes, we want roads in the north of our State. That ought to be seen as a responsibility'. Surely those roads must be seen in a different light- as extensions of a present system rather than as a connecting system where the Territory must be connected with the rest of Australia. Let us face it: Western Australia is connected to the national system and it goes quite a long way up the coast in that State. Queensland is connected to the national system and it goes a long way up the coast in that State. The Northern Territory is isolated. It is not connected to the rest of Australia. It is absolutely important that the connection should be achieved. Not only the few factors that I have mentioned but also other criteria must be taken into account. 
I am pleased that  Senator Bishop  drew attention to the fact that the Government through the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  agrees that there should be a road. As honourable senators know,  Mr Sinclair  went so far as to say before the last election that if re-elected the Government would build the road through from Alice Springs. So, in supporting the proposition put forward by my colleague,  Senator Bishop,  I ask the Government to restate its recognition of the need and to guarantee the money for this project to go ahead in the very near future. 
I enter the debate in order to say a few words about the Australian National Railways as it relates to the Alice Springs situation. Just recently I had discussions with the railway employees in Alice Springs and later, at a meeting of union representatives, I listened to  Mr Commissioner  Smith and the Assistant General Manager,  Dr Williams,  as they talked with the employees and answered some of their questions. At this meeting a number of concerns were expressed. These concerns related to the situation that will pertain when the broad gauge line to Alice Springs is completed. 
The first concern expressed by the railway employees related to staff movements. It appears that there will be a number of redundant positions and members of the staff will be required to move away from Alice Springs to other centres. That was basically because, with the completion of the broad gauge line, less maintenance work would be required at the Alice 
Springs depot. So a number of those maintenance staff will have to be relocated. When this problem was put to the Commissioner he said that he saw no problem at all. He thought that the whole matter would sort itself out. He did not take it as a possibility that all 120 people working at Alice Springs might want to stay in Alice Springs. He did not take it as a possibility that all 120 people might want to move away. He said that he saw no problem in the situation. He said that with the 'temporary' closing of the line in Darwin- the North Australia Railway- some time before there had been no problem. He thought the same situation would prevail in Alice Springs. 
As a visitor I did not speak publicly at the meeting, but here I challenge the statement that there was no problem in Darwin when the line was closed temporarily. There were many very worried, unhappy, unsettled people. 
The point of these remarks, without labouring it too much, is to seek the assurance of the Minister that the rights of all staff will be looked at very carefully before any decisions are made.  Mr Commissioner  Smith guaranteed that there would be discussions with the unions and discussions by some of his senior staff with the employees at Alice Springs. I have to add a word of caution here and say that the same sorts of assurances were given in Darwin but there was not as much consultation as the group in Darwin would have liked. I seek in this first area an assurance that there will be full discussion with the employees and wherever possible they will be located in areas of their choice. As for those who will be leaving the service of the Commission, I hope that every assistance will be given to them to find positions either in other government departments or with private enterprise. 
The second area of concern expressed at the meeting was that of fares out of Alice Springs. The present situation of the railway employees is that they get a 'free' pass- although it is not exactly a free pass- once each year. I say it is not a free pass because although the employee gets a pass for himself, his wife and children he then must pay $100 for each member of his family plus the costs of the sleeping berths on the train and the costs of meals. It has been drawn to my attention that these costs have escalated quite severely in the last 12 months. However, I make the point that all government employees in the Northern Territory get air fares or the equivalent once every two years and that is the proposition that I am putting forward now. The Australian National Railways Commission employees are, in effect, government employees and the same conditions should apply to them as apply to other government employees. 
I do not think that we can tolerate the argument that because people happen to work on a railway they automatically should travel by rail when they move away. I do not think that honourable senators would accept that proposition. When the proposition was put to him the Commissioner gave no assurance that air fares would be given. He simply suggested that the unions get together and put a case to the Commission. In fact, the implication of what he said was that he had some extreme doubts about air fares being granted. I ask for an assurance from the Government that it will look into the possibility of giving Commission employees the same conditions as other government employees have, and that is air fares or the equivalent every two years. I make the point here that it ought to be the equivalent of air fares. Commission employees should not be forced into a situation different from the rest of the government employees in the Northern Territory. If they wish to drive to some other centre then the air fare equivalent should be given each two years. 
I have no figures on that. All I can say is that this cost is built in for the other government employees. I do not think that we can use a cost argument in this situation, although I do know that it would not cost a great deal more. There was a suggestion that the Commission loses $140 on every seat on the Ghan and that if the employees put in their $100 and the Commission saved the $140 the air fare would be covered. But I cannot give  Senator Baume  the exact cost. I am glad that he accepts the point that the cost factor is not the important factor. It is the matter of equality for all employees which is the important thing. 
The third area of concern expressed at the meeting was the location of the rail head when the broad gauge line is completed. There are at least three sites that have been suggested. All I ask is that a full investigation be made before a decision is arrived at on the site of the rail head. When the investigation is carried out I ask that all views be taken into account, including the views of the Corporation of the Municipality of Alice Springs which obviously are important to the town plan, the views of the people themselves, including the views of railway employees as well as the general citizens of Alice Springs, and the views of the business houses which, I understand, stand to suffer quite a deal if the rail head is moved to one of the suggested locations. I have quite clear views on where I think the rail head ought to be but it is not appropriate for me to canvass them here. I simply ask that a full investigation be held into this most important matter. 
The fourth area of concern did not occasion a great deal of discussion at the meeting but it is an important matter to me. It concerns the possibility that there might be no passenger train when the broad gauge line goes through. Honourable senators probably will know of the historic Ghan and I hope that the Commission will look very carefully at the possibility of some sort of passenger service, and preferably one modelled on the Ghan. In other words, we want to see something which retains the spirit of the Ghan. The Commissioner in his reply suggested that there might be no passenger train. He said that some people might prefer to go by car and that the Commission might not be able to fill the Ghan. I point out to the Committee the success of the Indian-Pacific railway and the fact that one has to book months ahead in order to get a seat. I will assume that there will be a passenger service- I go so far as to say that- and if there is let us make sure that we get out and sell it. I strongly put it to the Government that it should try to create something with the spirit or flavour of the old Ghan in the new passenger service. 
The next matter with which I want to deal arising out of the meeting, and it is the final one, is the situation of railway housing or railway cottages as they are known. The comment was made at the meeting that there has recently been an increase in the rent on these homes without any renovations being carried out. One is reminded a little of the situation of some of the Service homes at the Royal Australian Air Force base in Darwin about which I was moved to comment early last year when increases in rents were made on those homes. I should explain to the Senate that these houses will be demolished in two years' time when the replanning goes ahead and it is obvious and understandable that very little maintenance will be done, let alone renovations of the houses. Maintenance will be kept to an absolute minimum. So I ask the Government to reconsider the increase in rents on these cottages. Obviously the claim is made that an economic rental is being looked for, but I put it to the Government that this attitude is not completely appropriate to this situation when such a small number of houses is involved. We all remember that one of the conditions of service when people went into the Australian National Railways in the early days was that this sort of accommodation would be made available. However, I will not press that point because those conditions have gone and there is no recognition of the original conditions of service. But, in view of the small amount of money that is involved here, I ask that the Government reconsider increasing the rents. I support other honourable senators who were very pleased to see what is virtually the completion- it is close enough to completion to warrant the present plan- of the broad gauge line. Let us have the changes that need to be made but let us make sure that they are done with the absolute minimum of heartbreak so that we avoid the situation which resulted from the 'temporary' closure of the line in the north of the Northern Territory. 
I take this opportunity on the first reading of a money Bill to bring briefly to the attention of the Senate a matter which has been of concern to me for many years. This concern has been freshened by a recent trip I had to Central Australia where I travelled quite a distance down the Stuart Highway, and also by discussions with officers of the police force who sought me out to bring this matter to my attention and by later discussions which I have had with other officers who reinforced what he told me. I am referring to the sale of secondhand vehicles to Aboriginals in the Northern Territory. I make the point quite specifically that my concern is only with Aboriginals within this particular debate. I am concerned only with the sale of secondhand vehicles, mainly motor cars and motor trucks. There are some problems dealing with the sale of secondhand vehicles in the Northern Territory to other than Aboriginal people but this is not my concern at the moment. I understand this will be dealt with by an Ordinance which is being brought into the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
I raise the matter here because of my concern with Aboriginal people and this problem they face and because it is of concern to us as a Federal Parliament and of course to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  It may be that the Senate or the Minister himself may care either to bring down legislation which will deal with this matter or more likely will give advice and will co-operate with whoever brings down the legislation in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
I want to look fairly briefly- I do not want to hold up the Senate- at three areas. One is the area of roadworthiness of the vehicles being sold. I am thinking here of two aspects; the first is unroadworthiness that might lead to accidents; in other words, defects which perhaps might be considered minor at the time of sale. We think here of defects in the braking system, in the steering system or perhaps with the lights. I mention lights because one of the factors brought to my attention by a police officer was that a couple of weeks prior to his talking to me there had been an accident in which five Aboriginal people had been killed. This accident had been brought about basically by a defect in the lighting system of the vehicle. I look further at the roadworthiness in the non-reliability of the vehicle. In other words, say, a major mechanical defect or perhaps as our teenage children may say 'a vehicle which is clapped out' because these vehicles also are sold to Aboriginal people. So there are those two aspects of roadworthiness. 
I look next at the area of the price charged in relation to the value of the vehicle. I then look at the need for some legislation to cover conditions of sale, and I will bring to the attention of the Senate some information on the legislation which exists in the States. I will look at the matter of financing not only the cost but the method of financing and I will look again at the value of the vehicle and at the roadworthiness of it to be covered by legislation. 
I believe when we look at the notes we will find that the Northern Territory is not covered in this way, but that will be my purpose of having material included in  Hansard  which I will seek to do later in the speech. We need legislation to enable the police to take cars off the road. I understand that at the moment there is nothing in the legislation of the Northern Territory which enables the police to do this. The reason for this legislation is that the Aboriginal people are being- to use a colloquial phrase- 'ripped off' by dealers and others in the Northern Territory, and, perhaps more importantly, because of the accidents which are resulting from the sale of these unroadworthy vehicles. 
What is the present situation? Why do I see this as a problem in the Northern Territory? 
What evidence do I have? I have to admit that I do not have a great deal of evidence in terms of statistical data. I wanted to raise this matter this week and I have not been able to collect statistics relating to the numbers of accidents and so on. This information may be required later. I certainly see its collection as a project in which I will be willing to co-operate. Most of the information I have is more or less anecdotal. Anyone who has been to the Northern Territory in the last 10 years and has driven down the Stuart Highway or on some of the roads out to the settlements or the communities will see the same terrible story. The highway is littered with the wrecks of motor vehicles. There are literally hundreds of these abandoned off the roads, particularly those leaving the major centres and leading out into the communities. 
Some of these wrecks are the result of accidents. The vehicles are burnt out or have been in an accident. We are not to know whether this was caused because of a defect in the vehicle or for some other reason. Many- I would say most- are there as the result of a major breakdown. They are vehicles which would not go any further. The Aboriginal people had to leave them on the side of the road. The cynics will say that Aboriginal people are poor drivers and poor mechanics. They will bring out the old hoary stories that Aboriginal people simply put petrol into a car and forget about water and oil. From my fairly wide experience in the Northern Territory- I think I could draw on the support of my colleague  Senator Kilgariff,  in regard to this matter if he were in the chamber- such statements demonstrate the ignorance of the people who make that sort of comment. 
I think some others are the same. The Aboriginal people generally are good drivers. Those who have learnt to drive drive carefully and well. They seem to have a sympathy with the vehicle. This has been my experience of having been driven many thousands of miles by Aboriginal drivers. One seldom sees amongst Aboriginal people irresponsible behaviour when driving or fast driving. One might compare them with a teenage group of white people who tend to go in for this sort of behaviour. Very few Aboriginals will drive under the influence of drink. Again, a comparison might be made with some of our European drivers. I suggest that fewer  Aboriginal  drivers per thousand drive under the influence of drink than is the case with the white drivers in our community. 
This is my experience. I am sure that my opinion is shared by a number of others who come from the Territory. 
I look secondly at the comment that Aboriginals are poor mechanics. Again I have to deny this. It has been my experience that generally those Aboriginals who have vehicles themself or drive for a company are good natural mechanics. I remember a situation at Groote Eylandt many years ago when Groote Eylandt Mining Co. Pty Ltd was still employing Aboriginal people. One of the drivers of a D9, a large earth moving vehicle, came in to say that his D9 had a defective radiator which had to be replaced. He was what some people would have called an unsophisticated Aboriginal. He certainly had no training in mechanics. He had been driving the vehicle for a short time only. The mechanic was busy and did not do anything about it. Some time later he found that the Aboriginal driver had removed the defective radiator and replaced it with a new one. The comment made by the mechanic to me was: 'This is a job that an apprentice is his second year of training would find extemely difficult.' 
I use that as one example. There are many others of Aboriginals who have become mechanics and who have done very good work. I have mentioned in this place before the Aboriginal who went out on a boat with an outboard motor the propellor of which fell off. He spent a couple of days fashioning a new propellor even with an inside thread. He fitted this to the outboard motor and came back. I know that these are isolated examples, but they can be duplicated many times. It has been my experience that the Aboriginal has the ability to conceptualise perhaps more than the European and become a good mechanic. The third criticism people make is that Aboriginals cannot look after their vehicles. They simply put petrol in and forget about all the other things.  Senator Baume  made a comment in this regard. Perhaps some Aboriginals do this. Certainly I do not think that this is the case any more than in the rest of the community. 
-Exactly. Many of the vehicles to which I am drawing attention collapse- I use that word carefully- when they are driven away from the yards and back to the community. I suggest it is not as a result of these three things that we see these vehicles littering the highway. It is the result of Aboriginal people being sold 'bombs'- in the jargon of young people- by dealers and others. I stress this point here now although it is common knowledge among the people of the Northern Territory. For many years this has been a matter of concern to all of those who have had some contact with Aboriginal people. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs and before that the Welfare Branch used to offer to provide a mechanic to check a vehicle before it was bought. The Aboriginal people have been counselled to be particularly careful. They have been told to contact the Automobile Association of the Northern Territory- our road organisation- or to get a mechanic to look at a vehicle before they buy it. 
Of course the problem is that Aboriginal people, like so many others, are anxious to have a car. As honourable senators would know they have long distances to travel and a car gives them freedom to move between their communities and the Centre. Of course, there is also a certain status symbol for an Aboriginal to have a car, as there is for our other people. The Northern Territory Police are aware of the problem. I have before me a statement made by an officer from the transport branch, who obviously must remain anonymous. He stated: 
We're aware of what is going on but we can't do a thing about it. The dealers bring up loads of second hand bombs from Adelaide, that would never be re-registered in South Australia in a fit. They still have a few months of rego on them, and of course you can drive a car for a few months with South Australian plates. The dealers flog these off to the Aboriginals. I tell you, its a b- disgrace. 
The selling of the bombs and the money which the Aboriginals lose is bad enough but I am also concerned about the dealers selling vehicles at well above their price. I have a couple of statements before me which I think are important to relate as they show the experience that some people have of vehicles being sold well above their value. The following statement was made by an officer of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It states: 
These dealers see the Aborigines coming and say to them, How much have you got to spend?' and that's the price of the car. The Aboriginals say, 'I've got $1,000' and then the dealer says, 'I've got just the car for you '. 
An officer from the Central Aboriginal Legal Aid Office had this comment to make: 
We've set up a white person to price a car, and he's been quoted $500. Then we've sent in an Aboriginal with a $ 1 ,500 cheque in his hand and lo and behold, that selfsame car is now priced at $ 1 ,500. 
The police have made the same comments over the years. The man who brought to me the original complaint that I mentioned earlier in my speech told me that only in the previous two weeks he had seen a vehicle for which an Aboriginal was charged $1,000. He said that in his  opinion- he was a Sergeant of Police with some experience in these matters- the car was not worth more than $150. The disturbing thing about that particular sale was that the vehicle was sold by a school teacher working in an Aboriginal community. I make the point that the action by that person would have been an extremely isolated case in that dedicated band of teachers who work in Aboriginal communities. This draws attention to the need in any legislation that may be drafted or in any comments that we make, to legislate for dealers as well as for individuals. I see a need for legislation to cover roadworthiness, the condition of the vehicle at the time of the sale and the value of the vehicle. After all, the old 'buyer beware' situation that perhaps the rest of the community is aware of, does not apply to many Aboriginal people. He has difficulty in assessing the value of a vehicle. He does not have the background that some of us have and, let us face it, we are taken down often enough. He usually does not have this background to enable him to put a fair price on a vehicle. We need legislation to enable the police to put a vehicle off the road if it is defective. 
I look now at the situation in the States and in the Australian Capital Territory. I have before me a document produced by the Law and Government Group of the Legislative Research Service entitled 'State and Territory Legislation Governing the Sale of Second Hand Cars'. This is a particularly valuable document. It is not very long and to save time I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

STATE AND TERRITORY LEGISLATION GOVERNING THE SALE OF SECOND HAND CARS 
Private Sale 
There is no legislation in any of the States or Territories governing specifically the private sale of second hand motor cars. In all such cases however, these sales will be generally governed by the respective Sale of Goods legislation. The cover and protection afforded to buyers by this legislation is extremely limited. 
In a contract of sale, the legislation provides that there will be an implied condition that the goods (cars) are of merchantable quality if they are sold 'by description' by a person who normally deals in the sale of those goods.' The term 'by description' does not have a clear meaning as it is not defined in any of the Acts; however, it is fairly clear that this provision only applies to manufacturers or retailers of goods who are in the business of selling those goods. 1 NSW Sale of Goods Act s. 19 (2); WA Sale of Goods Act s. 14 (ii); Vic. Goods Act s. 19 (b); Tas Sale of Goods Act s. 19 (b); Qld Sale of Goods Act s. 17 (2); ACT Sale of Goods Ordinances. 19 (4); SA Sale of Goods Acts. 14(1). 
The only recourse then for a buyer of a motor car in a private sale is to the terms of the contract of sale which may or may not include warranties as to the fitness or condition of the car. 
Sales by Motor Car Dealers Queensland 
Sales by dealers in this State are governed by the Auctioneers and Agents Act 1971. 
Section 58 provides that the dealer must give the purchaser of any car at the time or purchase, a roadworthy certificate. 
The Act does not provide for any compulsory warranty periods. 
There is some protection for innocent buyers of 1 bombs ' in section 57 which requires the dealer to give the purchaser a written notice setting out among other things: 
the make, type model and date of manufacture of vehicle; 
the name and address of the previous owner; and 
the engine and chassis number. 
Section 56 provides that every dealer must allow the registrar, deputy registrar, an assistant registrar of motor vehicles, or an inspector or member of the police force to enter his premises at all reasonable hours to examine any second hand cars. 
NSW 
The sale of second hand cars by dealers in this State is governed by the Motor Dealers Act 1 974. 
The Act does not provide for the issue of roadworthy certificates; however it does make provision for compulsory warranties against defects. For used cars, the warranty is (s.27): 
5,000 km or 2 months where the cash price is S 1 ,000 or more; and 
3,000 km or 2 months where the cash price is less than $1,000. 
Warranties do not apply to inter alia: 
tyres, batteries or prescribed accessories; 
b ) incidental or accidental damage after sale; or 
misuse or negligence on the part of the driver. 
As in Queensland, extra protection is provided for innocent purchasers in the form of a requirement that dealers must display a notice on each car detailing particulars about the car. 
Section 23 allows a member of the police force, a consumer protection inspector, a person authorised by the Commissioner for Consumer Affairs or the Commissioner for Motor Transport to inspect a dealer's register, a register outlining details of all the dealer's sales, purchases and exchanges. 
Victoria 
The Motor Car Traders Act 1973 governs all sales of second hand cars by dealers. 
The Act makes no provision for roadworthy certificates, however it does provide for compulsory warranties. For used cars, the warranties are (s. 4 1 ): 
5,000 km or 3 months where the cash price is $2,000 or more; and 
3,000 km or 2 months where the cash price is less than $2,000. 
However, no statutory warranties apply to a car sold for under $1, 000 (s. 41 (3)(e)). 
An innocent buyer is further protected by section 40 which requires the dealer to display a notice on each car setting out the relevant particulars; these particulars are similar in content to the NSW provisions. 
Section 26 (7) provides that a member of the police force may request a dealer to produce his Purchases Book and any car he has in his possession. 
South Australia 
Sale of second hand cars by dealers is governed by the Second Hand Motor Vehicles Act 1971. 
The Act contains no provisions relating to roadworthy certificates; however it does provide for compulsory warranties against defects. For used cars the warranties are: 
5,000 km or 3 months where the cash price is over $1,000; and 
3,000 km or 2 months where the cash price is less than $1,000. 
However, no warranties apply to cars sold for under $500. 
In addition the buyer is further protected by section 23 (3) which provides that all cars offered for sale must carry a notice stating- 
the dealer 's name and address; 
the cash price; 
the name of the last private owner; 
d ) the mileage at the time he sold it; and 
the car's model and the year of registration. 
The Act makes no reference to any functions of the police or the registration authorities. 
Western Australia 
The sale of second hand cars by dealers is regulated by the Motor Vehicle Dealers Act 1973. 
Section 40 provides that a dealer commits an offence if he sells a vehicle without the requisite certificate of roadworthiness. In addition the Act lays down compulsory warranties for second hand cars namely: 
5,000 km or 3 months where the cash price is over $1,000; and 
3,000 km or 2 months where the cash price is less than $1,000. 
These warranties do not apply to vehicles sold for less than $500. 
Section 33 (3) provides additional protection in that it requires certain particulars, similar to those in South Australia, to be attached to the vehicle prior to sale. 
Section 25 empowers any member of the police force, an officer of the Department of Motor Vehicles or a traffic inspector to inspect the dealers register outlining his sales, purchases and exchanges. In addition, section 28 empowers these officers above to prohibit the sale of a vehicle where it is found to be unfit for sale. 
Tasmania 
There is no statute in Tasmania dealing specifically with the sale of second hand motor cars by dealers. However, such dealers are generally regulated by the Second-Hand Dealers Act 1 905. This Act contains no provisions relating to warranties or roadworthy certificates. However section 8 does permit a duly authorised police officer to inspect the book, required by the Act, recording all purchases and sales. 
ACT 
Sale of second hand motor vehicles by dealers is regulated by the Sale of Motor Vehicles Ordinance 1977. 
There are no provisions governing certificates of roadworthiness; however, the Ordinance does provide for compulsory warranties namely: 
5,000 km or 3 months where the cash price is more than $1,500; and 
3,000 km or 2 months where the cash price is less than $ 1 ,500 but more than $ 1 ,000. 
In other words, no warranty applies to vehicles sold for under $ 1 ,000. However, in this case section 2 1 requires the dealer to endorse among other things, a statement to the notice (discussed below) that the dealer is not obliged to repair defects in the vehicle and give a copy to the purchaser. 
Section 20 requires the dealer to attach a notice to each car offered for sale detailing certain particulars about the car. 
An inspector of the Registrar of Motor Vehicle Dealers is empowered under section 76 to inspect all books, documents and vehicles at a dealer's premises. 
Law &amp; Government Group Legislative Research Service 14 November 1978 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy President,  and the Senate. In considering the most appropriate legislation for the Northern Territory I think we can look at what happens in the rest of Australia. When we consider the legislation we might use in relation to roadworthiness, there seem to be two approaches we can take. One is to say: 'Every vehicle sold must be registered and must carry a warranty'. This is the approach that is followed in a number of States. For example, for a vehicle worth $1,000 there must be a three-month warranty, for a vehicle sold for $5,000 there must be a six-month warranty and so on. There is a possibility that that is the sort of legislation that would suit. The alternative is that we require every vehicle being sold to carry a certificate of roadworthiness so that before a vehicle can be sold it must have displayed on the front windscreen or in some appropriate place a certificate of roadworthiness. I favour the use of such a certificate but I have no strong feelings about this. I am prepared to accept either of these alternatives as long as the vehicle is safe to drive and has some reliability. In other words, it is going to last some time if the buyer pays a reasonable amount of money for it. 
We should look at the legislation needed to cover the price factor and to prevent vehicles being sold well above their value. I appreciate that this is a more difficult matter on which to legislate but I raise the issue because it is related to the particular problem of the Aboriginal people. I have mentioned already the difficulty that some of them have in being able to say that a certain vehicle is worth $500, $ 1,500 or $3,000. I know that I will be called paternalistic for making these comments and no doubt some people will criticise me for it, but I think it is important that we do not see Aboriginal people having their money ripped off them. After all, nothing can be lost by having some legislation requiring a value range to be placed on a vehicle. Surely an assessor could say that a certain vehicle could be sold at a price ranging between $1,000 and $1,500 or whatever. That sounds awfully naive. But in the Northern Territory we have a situation which requires simple straightforward solutions. Perhaps such legislation might be enacted in cooperation with the Automobile Association of the Northern Territory so that a person could simply put a car in, have it valued and that, plus whatever reasonable commission is due to the seller for making the transaction, would be the price. The seller is entitled to his commission. No one denies that. I think any reputable dealer or private person would not object to that sort of situation. Certainly I know that if I were selling a car to anyone I would be happy to say: 'Put it in, have it assessed by the Automobile Association or by an authorised dealer and the value placed upon it can be the price of the vehicle'. I do not see any complaints being made except by the unscrupulous seller. 
I turn to the unsafe vehicles on the road and the possibility of the police being able to take them off. There are many of them. My information about this situation comes from the Police Department. It says that there is nothing it can do about the matter. Some sort of legislation is necessary to enable the Police Department to take off the road in the Northern Territory a vehicle which is not safe. This is not my area. I cannot say how the legislation ought to be drafted. I simply draw attention to the need for it. It should not be difficult to study the States situation and select the sort of legislation which might be appropriate. I make my reason for suggesting this legislation quite clear. It is simply to get those cars which are a danger taken off the road, in order to try to reduce some of the carnage which we have on the roads. I envisage a situation where a vehicle, which is so defective that it cannot be driven safely, can be taken off the road. A further criticism that could be made is that I have spoken only of the Aboriginal people but I make no apology for doing so. I believe that a special situation exists for Aboriginal people and this requires special treatment. If legislation can be enacted to cover all, I will be quite happy about that, but I am putting the case for 25 per cent of the population in the Northern Territory. A suggestion was made in a newspaper of recent date that more Aboriginal people would buy cars. An article which appeared in the Northern Territory  News  on 1 9 October states: 
President of the Territory Automobile Association,  AANT,  believes the Association should be prepared for the time when Territory Aborigines will form a significant sector of the car-owning community. 
The  President,  Captain Tom Milner, said under existing circumstances where the majority of Aborigines live a segregated existence on isolated communities, few were among the driving public. He predicted that with future development and 'as mining royalties begin to flow' many Aborigines would become vehicle owners. 
Further in the article he said: 
The AANT must be prepared to advise and guide this potential new field of membership. 
I stress that. He said that the AANT must be prepared to advise and guide. I commend the AANT for the attitude that it is taking. I suggest that we need to take steps to prevent the fatalities that I have mentioned and to prevent the rip-offs by unscrupulous people. I suggest that the Commonwealth Government might take the initiative on this point in consultation with the Northern Territory Government. If it does this it will be satisfying a great need. Credit would be due to it for such action of which it could be justly proud. Some people have suggested that courses should be conducted to enable Aboriginal people to assess the value of cars, to train them to maintain their vehicles and to carry out repairs. These are all good proposals and action is being taken on them at present; nevertheless it is necessary that legislation be introduced as a first step. In the time available to me in the Senate today I have only drawn attention to the problem. The matter is now up to the Government. I commend the proposals to it. 
I support my colleagues in this most important debate because unemployment, despite what Senators Walters has said, is most definitely a political issue and one in which we all ought to be vitally involved. My colleagues have looked at the broad picture. I hope to look at a couple of specific issues. Government speakers have criticised the Opposition for carping and for raising unnecessary criticism to some of the Government policies and to some of its actions. They say that we of the Opposition do not present alternative propositions and that we do not make concrete suggestions. I hope to do that at the present time- to offer an alternative to some of the areas of problems in unemployment and to make some concrete suggestions. 
I would like to look at the problems faced by two groups of people. The first group comprises the young people who see no future in front of them; the group that we perhaps sometimes call the socially and educationally disadvantaged- a large group within our community. I would like to look also at the particular problems faced by Aboriginal youth. I will draw examples from the Northern Territory, although other honourable senators could draw examples from other areas. 
I think it is fair to say that my colleagues have put the case very adequately on the broad front, have identified the problem and have quantified it. They have discussed the scale of the problem throughout Australia, so I will not discuss it at length. But I would just like to quote to the Senate the views of others. Firstly, the editorial in the  Australian  of 16 September, reads: 
Serious unemployment is going to be with us and many other countries for a very long dme as  Mr Street  recognises . . . The most valid criticism of the Government is that it has failed to give the country a sense of direction. 
I remind the Senate of what Professor Wheelwright of Sydney said in April 1976. He said: 
The two main components of unemployment are young people and women. You can bottle that up for a year or two, but the pressure builds. In America 45 per cent of the unemployed are under 20. 1 think we are moving towards a very serious youth problem. 
Professor Karmel, the  Chairman  of the Tertiary Education Commission, has said that youth unemployment is probably the most serious problem to be faced by Australia in the next 25 years. He has now warned that youth unemployment could become chronic and lead to what he designates a 'jobless class'. But this has been dealt with by my colleagues. 
I would like to look at the transition of people from school to work and the problems faced by those who do not make the transition from school to work- in other words, those who are unemployed after schooling. The group with special needs, the group most at risk, comprises the socially and educationally underprivileged youth. A Young Men 's Christian Association survey of the Community Youth Support Scheme showed a high level of illiteracy among the people in that scheme- a low attainment in the area of both literacy and numeracy. This is the result of years of non-achievement- the syndrome of cumulative deficit that we have talked about in this place before. This group faces an almost impossible task in finding employment and very soon these get the people the title of unemployable. The employers, I suppose understandably, choose what they regard as the 'best' on what has become a buyers' market. 
People in this group are at high risk in society because often they offend against the law; in many cases they lack the support of home stability and often of income stability because their parents, like them, are unemployed. They lack peer group support and they finish up in gangs, where expectations are, in many cases, socially undesirable. It is important to remember that this group stands outside contact by the agencies which normally are involved with young people. We know that less than 20 per cent of the 1 5 to 18 years age group are contacted by voluntary or government agencies. Experience shows pretty clearly that the at risk group is not involved in this 20 per cent. 
Young people go through four distinct phases when they are unable to get a job. The first is the stage of shock. They say to themselves: 'How could this happen to me? I really thought I could get a job. I never expected this to happen to me'. The initial shock is usually followed by a period of high optimism with active searching for jobs, high motivation and the joining of the training programs mentioned by Government senators. This burst of optimism generally persists for about three to six months. When no employment is found it is usually followed by pessimism. Somewhere between three to six months later the optimism of the unemployed young people usually gives way to feelings of doubt and pessimism. They experience continual rejection, questioning and casting in the role of dole bludgers. Efforts to seek jobs suddenly drop off and motivation fails. The last stage- the disturbing one- is that of fatalism. The unemployed young people feel that the situation is hopeless. They say to themselves: 'There is nothing I can do about it. I am useless. I am of no use to anyone'. This sense of uselessness, hopelessness, boredom, resentment and depression is usually well established after six months of unemployment. 
It has been mentioned that some young people choose not to work. They are the dole bludgers allegedly referred to by the Opposition. I remind  Senator Walters,  who claimed that the Government does not use the phrase 'dole bludger', that the first statement put out by  Senator Guilfoyle  and  Mr Street-  Press Statement No. 1- was entitled 'Moves to combat dole bludgers'. So certainly the Government uses that phrase disturbingly often. What are the effects on young people of not being able to get employment. There is no doubt at all- I think this would be accepted by all in the community- that the selfrespect and self-esteem of a person is damaged. Unemployment stimulates feelings of impotence and inadequacy and generates anti-social behaviour and anti-social attitudes. I do not have to elaborate on these things as they are well known. 
Let me refer now to the basic needs of the unemployed young people and how we might meet those needs. Firstly, the young people need, and we must find for them, a point of contactsomebody who is able to establish rapport with them and give them the support that they need. I do not have to go into that aspect either as this need is axiomatic. The second need of these young people is intervention, the YMCA calls it crisis intervention'. This involves counselling by individual and group work. The next stage that is needed is diversionary programs to provide a range of options and a movement away by these people from socially unacceptable behaviour, and in that respect I mention the discovery of human values by the persons themselves. The final need is for the discovery of their latent human talents. Such programs need to allow for the personal, social, educational, welfare and recreational needs of the unemployed young people. I have a statement prepared by the youth unemployment task group of the National Council of the YMCA showing the diverse needs of young people. I seek permission to incorporate the statement in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I turn now to the schemes which are at present operating and which have been mentioned by the two Government speakers. Numerous schemes have been put forward by the Government and voluntary agents. Many of the schemes have value. Unfortunately, a lot of these schemes are limited and none of them meets all the needs. I believe that some of these schemes could be incorporated into a program which I will suggest later in my speech and which ought to be looked at by the Government. The basic objection to these schemes- this has not been recognised by the Minister or  Senator Walters-  is that they are based on the assumption that work will be available for young people. The emphasis is on training. The Community Youth Support Scheme, the Special Youth Employment Training Program and the Education Program for Unemployed Youth all assume that somewhere out there work is available. These schemes assume that all one has to do is to help the young man search for work, that the young man has to be prepared and trained and that these employment skills must be maintained while he is waiting for a job. It is an undeniable fact- this point has been made by both Opposition speakers- that for many young people, particularly the group that I am speaking about, no work is available and no work is likely to be available. So there is little point in the Government saying that it has wonderful training programs for preparing people for work. It would help if the Government put the same amount of enthusiasm into creating job opportunities as it puts into training people to fill these jobs. But it still would not overcome the problem. 
I have not time to reply to interjections. Let us be fair: Unemployment is a world wide phenomenon. Much more could be done by the Government to create work. What I am saying is valid and what I will say in the next few minutes is also valid. There is a need for a program to save the young people; to save society itself and to maintain the sort of standards and values to which we are accustomed. 
The YMCA has developed a nation-wide program for youth at risk who are currently unemployed and this document has been sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr Fraser)  and relevant Ministers. It is this document that I am now drawing to the attention of the Senate. This program has been based on the best knowledge that is available in Australia and overseas. I do not think anyone in this place or outside would deny the capacity or the expertise of the YMCA in this field. The actual document is based on contributions from all States. I remind the Government that the YMCA is involved in many of the government programs, such as CYSS. I will not take up the time of the Senate in elaborating on this document. Copies of it are available and a meeting to discuss it has already been held with interested members on both sides of both chambers. I call on the Government at this stage to consider the proposition and make finance available to implement this scheme. 
I turn now to youth unemployment in Aboriginal communities and in this regard I shall refer specifically to the Northern Territory. I have brought this topic to the attention of the Senate on a number of occasions. There is no doubt at all that Aboriginal unemployment, whether it be at the adult level or the youth level, is the highest in Australia. What is the situation in the Northem Territory at present? A survey was carried out by the Northern Territory Teachers Federation late in 1978. It took as its sample postprimary students from communities and postprimary students at residential colleges. The figures show that in 1976, of the 71 post-primary students who left the institutions at which they had studied, only 26 of those students, that is 36 per cent, had work. Twelve months later in 1977, 147 students left school or college, and at the time of the survey only 47 had found employment- that is 31.2 per cent. The picture becomes even worse when one looks at the individual communities. Of the 1976-77 school leavers at Yuendumu not one young man or woman had found employment. Of 25 school leavers at Milingimbi only three had found work in two years. At Yirara, only two persons out of 21 found jobs on their return to the settlement. These are the cream of the Aboriginal youththose who were selected to go to college because they had great potential. They are the ones who were mentioned today by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  in answer to a question. Half a million dollars per year is spent on each of these institutions and we are not getting a return in terms of employment. I am not critical of the institutions; I am drawing attention to the size of the problem. Imagine the demoralising effect on staff and students. What incentives are there for students to attend school or for teachers to try to prepare students to enter the work force? 
I will not dwell on the problems faced by the Aboriginal communities. We have all heard in this place of the extent of vandalism and antisocial behaviour amongst the young people who are not employed. We have heard of the drunkenness among young people within the Aboriginal communities. The first step here, as in other areas, is job creation. Jobs must be created. The next step- an ongoing step- is to provide some sort of program to save these young people from the sort of fate that I have mentioned: Drunkenness, vandalism, lack of identity, lack of selfesteem, lack of self-motivation and so on. Some good work is being done as a result of finance made available by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs but much more must be done. Drastic problems obviously require strong remedies. 
Let us not be fooled by some of the comments that are being made about uranium being the panacea that will provide all the jobs needed in the Northern Territory. In the unlikely event of Aboriginal people being employed as a result of the mining- let us face it, the record does not stand too well at the present time with the mining communities in the Northern Territory- the few who will be employed will be adults and they will be employed not at the level at which we would expect college graduates to be employed. There is no indication that people are being taken in and trained as technicians in the present mining operations. In most cases they are given jobs as handymen; they are given manual work and low esteem work. With the exception of the Groote Eylandt situation where young people are trained to drive the heavy loaders, it is mainly low esteem work. We cannot sweep this matter under the carpet. It is a problem and it needs to be treated now. 
In the short time at my disposal and with some speed I have referred to the problems faced by young people who are unemployed. I have given particular emphasis to two groups- the educationally and socially disadvantaged within the general community and the Aboriginal people with their particular problems. The first step towards the solution is job creation. The Government must move here, particularly in the Northern Territory situation. It must recognise that unemployment will be with us for some time and accept the responsibility which it has to protect society and, particularly, the youth involved. I have put forward one proposition and I ask the Government to look carefully at it, to have discussions with the YMCA and to provide funds so that something can be done in this vital area. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs been advised of concern being felt and expressed by the Timorese refugees in Australia, particularly those in Darwin and Victoria,  relating to  the delay in the processing of applications for the reuniting of families in Australia and to the discrimination practised by the Government of Indonesia against Timorese people who wish to come to Australia to be reunited with their families? Will the recent guidelines issued by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs be used in the situation of Timorese refugees wishing to come to Australia or will the Government keep to the promises it has given over the last 1 8 months in response to questions and written requests? 
My question is addressed to the Minister represeting the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Did  Mr Smith  of Stawell Timber Industries Pty Ltd inform the council at Jay Creek that unless it accepted Stawell houses it would receive no further moneys from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for housing purposes? Was  Mr Smith  authorised by anyone in the Department to make such a threat? Did  Mr Cook,  Assistant Director (Southern) of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, state that Jay Creek could have Stawell houses or none at all? If so, does the Minister support this method of self-determination? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 8 November 1978: 
1 ) Which State Governments lodged objections with the Federal Government about the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act 1976 at the time of its passage through the Federal Parliament. 
2 ) What were the objections of each government. 
What action was taken by the Federal Government to accommodate the objections. 
Which State Governments, if any, still have objections, and what is the substance of those objections. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Does the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 discriminate against de facto relationships in that the Department of Social Security will not pay the male partner in the relationship unemployment benefits if the female partner is working. 
) Does the Taxation Department refuse to recognise the female partner's right to claim her male partner as a dependent if he is unemployed. 
Will the Treasurer investigate this situation with a view to remedying the anomaly. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Will the Minister agree to satisfy persistent doubts arising from the meeting of traditional owners held at Oenpelli on Friday, 3 November 1978, by arranging for a public viewing of the. video-tape filmed at that meeting by the Institute of Aboriginal Studies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
Have railway employees stationed in Alice Springs petitioned the General Manager of the Australian National Railways, seeking that they be provided with free return air travel to any capital city in Australia every two years. 
Do other Federal Government employees stationed in the Northern Territory have this condition of service. 
If so: (a) why are the railway employees not provided with air fares; and (b) will the Minister investigate the claim made by the employees of the Australian National Railways. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Is Mr Soerodjo Pringowriono, the recently appointed Indonesian Consul in Darwin, a  Colonel of  Police seconded to the Indonesian Intelligence group known as Bakin. 
Are reports to this effect of concern to those Timorese people in Australia who have made application to have their families reunited with them in Australia. If so, will the Minister take appropriate action to reassure these Timorese people that they have no grounds for their concern. 
-Is the Minister for Science and the Environment aware that Ranger Uranium Ltd is to be served with a conservation order because of unnecessary damage at Jabiru? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Government, as a partner in the venture, will ensure that in future strict environmental protection measures will be adopted at Jabiru? 
We are debating the Commonwealth Authorities (Northern Territory Pay-roll Tax) Bill 1978. The purpose of this Bill is to bring the Northern Territory into line with the rest of Australia with respect to payroll tax. Because of that we do not oppose the Bill. We see that it is necessary to provide for the same levels of payroll tax to apply in the Northern Territory as apply in the States and in the Australian Capital Territory, and for the same sort of coverage of Commonwealth authorities subject to payroll tax to apply in the Northern Territory as applies in the States and in the Australian Capital Territory. But it is fair to say that the Australian Labor Party is opposed in principle to payroll tax, just as it is opposed in principle to the investment allowance. The ALP platform seeks the removal of payroll tax and the investment allowance, mainly because they are taxes on activity. They seek to encourage the elimination of jobs and they encourage the replacement of men by machines. 
The ALP favours the removal of payroll tax because the ALP seeks to encourage employment and activity and, through that activity, the generation of profits which can be taxed. But because payroll tax applies all over Australia and because this Bill will bring the Northern Territory into line with the States and with the Australian Capital Territory, we do not oppose it. It is a part of self-government that we have got used to in the last 12 months. It is one of the Bills which has been brought forward to facilitate self-government in the Northern Territory. I have made the point in this place before that, with the creation of a new government and with the creation of new departments, there are many opportunities to find novel ways to look at things- new ways to organise a public service, new ways to organise departments and perhaps even new ways of government. But I believe that this is not one such opportunity and I do not intend to press the issue here. 
The discouragement of employment to which I referred is particularly important in the Northern Territory. Unemployment is a vital issue for us in the Territory. The January figures showed that there were 4,995 unemployed- 9. 1 8 per cent of the work force. As I have mentioned before in this place, a high proportion of young people are involved. There is little doubt that the percentage of young people will increase with the February school leavers and that the figures for February in the Northern Territory will be quite disastrous. There is little doubt also that the percentage of the total work force which is unemployed will increase when the wet season ends and the dry season comes upon us. This is traditional in the Northern Territory. Each year, at the onset of the dry, we have people from the south moving north and causing more unemployment. 
The situation is made worse this year by what one might call the lure of uranium. A number of politicians, both Federal and Territorial, have made some fairly ridiculous statements about the number of people who will be employed when uranium is mined. I seem to recall that the Minister for Trade and Resources,  Mr Anthony,  used a figure of something like 100,000 people. Nevertheless, we all know that the number that will be employed is nowhere near this figure, or even the somewhat lower figures quoted by other politicians. The people who will be employed in the Northern Territory will be specially recruited for their jobs, but the unemployed from the south will increase our unemployment. The unemployed in the southern States will not heed the advice of the Commonwealth Employment Service and will come to the Territory seeking work. We saw this sort of thing happening after Cyclone Tracy when many people, despite warnings in the Press and advice from the CES, came north looking for the work that they thought would follow the cyclone. 
I put it to the Northern Territory Government that it must take steps to increase employment opportunities in the Northern Territory. It is quite obvious that the Federal Government has not been prepared to do this. It has demonstrated its indifference to the Northern Territory in the last three Budgets. We have had no incentives, no stimulation of the economy and virtually no spending in the public sector, unlike the situation which has existed in the Australian Capital Territory when definite steps have been taken to make sure that building firms did not go to the wall and that employment was created for those people. We have not had this situation in the Northern Territory and so we have great problems with unemployment. 
If we are to have payroll tax, I hope that the Northern Territory will use this money as revenue for worthwhile purposes. It should use exemptions from the tax as incentives. There is nothing new in this. This sort of thing has been done already by the New South Wales Government at Albury to assist the paper manufacturers. It has been done in many States. In fact I can recall suggesting this and other incentives to industry when I made my maiden speech in this place. There is no argument about the fact that the Northern Territory needs more secondary industry and there is no argument either about the fact that businesses are reluctant to move into an area unless they get some sort of incentive to move in. I see exemption from payroll tax as one form of incentive that can be offered. The Northern Territory Government can use it as an incentive to encourage business to move in. Of course, there are others and they have been canvassed in this place previously. Perhaps this is not the appropriate time to go through them. But it is fair to say that little has been done up to the present in the Northern Territory by either the Federal Government or the Northern Territory Government. 
I am pleased to see that the Northern Territory Government has announced proposals along the lines that I am suggesting. I refer to a recent announcement by an executive member- the Treasurer,  Mr Perron.  It is not much but it is a start. Unfortunately- and I use the word 'unfortunately' wisely here- the people in the Northern Territory have come not to trust their Government. This is a most unfortunate situation. I have already indicated to the leader of the Government in the Northern Territory, both publicly and privately by letter, that he has a great honour to lead the first Northern Territory Government. I have tried to remind him of his need to establish and maintain credibility, not only for himself but also for the Government as a whole- our Government in the Northern Territory. Unfortunately he has not done this, either with the people of the Northern Territory or with his colleagues here in Canberra. At least one Federal Minister in this place has had a recent experience of this. 
Perhaps I could cite the establishment of a government insurance office as one example of what I am talking about. The establishment of a insurance office very much along the lines of the sort of thing we see in the States with the State government insurance offices was suggested by the Australian Labor Party during the last election campaign. As is fairly common during election campaigns, the concept was attacked by the Country-Liberal Party, but this is to be expected. This year the Chief Minister moved to establish a government insurance office. Naturally he could not have an office which was the same as that suggested by the ALP. This would, unfortunately, represent some sort of loss of face. So he introduced a concept of his own. He disregarded the Caffin report, which is a report produced by a group set up to make recommendations about a government insurance office. This report actually suggested a proposition very much along the lines of the ALP proposal. 
The announcement which he made has sparked off a controversy in the Northern Territory. Insurance offices came out and opposed the suggestion. They criticised the conditions, terms, benefits and areas of insurance, and after that there was not much left. The  Chairman  of the Nominal Defendants Committee, who is a leading member of the CLP, resigned in protest at the announcement and he made the following statement in the local newspaper: 
It is a complete reversal of an undertaking given by  Mr Everingham  to the insurance industry last year. 
Branches of the Chief Minister's party, including his own, came out with their objections to it. The unions opposed it, suggesting that the Chief Minister was inviting a total industrial stoppage. So there was a complete turnaround by the Chief Minister. The beautiful brochures with his portrait on the back, which unfortunately had not been issued, were all thrown away and a new committee was established. We were given promises of new conditions remarkably similar to the ALP's proposals and it was suggested that there would be discussion by the public. I certainly welcome this. I welcome the establishment of the committee, the fact that there will be new conditions and certainly the discussion by the public. I hope that the discussion occurs. 
Unfortunately the present Northern Territory Government is notorious for not consulting the people. We had the first case of the referendum on statehood which went back into the previous Chief Minister's time and the more recent issue of casinos which the Government refuses to put to the people at a referendum. I welcome the step that has been made. I welcome the acceptance that a mistake has been made, although, of course, in true political terms this was not made explicit. But I regret another example of inadequate investigation before presentation. I regret also the lack of consultation with the industry, with the Territory Opposition and with the people of the Territory and I regret the reversal of the undertaking made by the Chief Minister. A situation which we all understand is that if one party or one politician errs the public become suspicious of all politicians and our standing in the community drops even lower. I do not mind its losing favour with the people. This will mean that we will have a Labor government next time. This is all part of the political will. But I do mind our Territory- it belongs to all of us, not just the governing group- being held up to ridicule and I object to our Territory starting on the wrong foot on its path to constitutional development. 
We on this side do not oppose the Bill for the reasons I have outlined. I hope and trust that the Northern Territory Government will not let us down and will use its powers for the betterment of the Northern Territory, firstly, to develop those industries which are already established in the Territory and, secondly, to compensate the small businesses which have been crippled by excessive charges. One example I cite here is the imposition of higher charges for electricity which, we understand, are to go up an additional 1 4 per cent. This is a particular problem for small firms such as quick food firms. I had one example of this cited to me last week where a firm had to put off one staff member so that it could meet its additional bill. When it gets a bill for the additional 14 per cent it is going to be in further trouble. I hope that the Northern Territory Government will use the device of exemption from payroll tax to encourage the setting up of the new industries that are so essential to our growth as a self-governing territory. 
We are debating the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978. This Bill is similar to the Commonwealth Authorities (Northern Territory Pay-Roil Tax) Bill 1978. It is a machinery Bill to facilitate exemption from sales tax for departments and authorities under the control of the Northern Territory Government. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation. We note that the exemption is for departments and authorities and we hope that the Government will look at exemptions for groups associated with departmentsfor example, school committees, parent groups and so on. I appreciate that exemption is available at the present time and I trust that this will continue. However, I raise the point because I feel there is some need for clarification first in respect of groups associated with departments and authorities and secondly, in respect of items which attract exemption. Certainly, while we are looking at that, there is a need to look at exemption for other groups which are non-profit making- for example, youth groups, service organisations, church groups and so on. 
I accept that certainly care needs to be exercised but it should not be beyond the wit of this Government to establish reasonable criteria. Perhaps we could look at groups such as women's refuges which receive government financial assistance or groups such as Apex which are non-profit making and purely service organisations. But I do not have to continue. The Australian Council of Social Service and similar organisations could make suggestions if the Government is interested in this area. Perhaps I am moving beyond the scope of the Bill. I make the point that the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 19 October 1978: 
Have the extension of services and the provision of more local content on Australian Broadcasting Commission television in the Northern Territory been delayed due to the introduction of colour: if so, when are Territorians likely to have these services provided now that the change has been made. 
Will the Northern Territory Regional Office make more news and local content coverage available to southern outlets now that the change to colour transmission has been made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 14 November 1978: 
Did  Mr Stephen  Zorn claim, on the program AM, Wednesday, 8 November 1978, that 'unbearable pressure' had been brought to bear on Aboriginal people by the Prime Minister, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the  Deputy  Prime Minister; if so, will the Minister issue a statement denying that pressure was brought to bear and indicating the nature of the discussions held in Darwin between the three Ministers and the  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council,  Mr Yunupingu. 
I support the motion moved by my colleague  Senator Grimes.  Before I move into the arguments I have prepared for my contribution to the debate I would like to make one or two comments on what the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has just said. I am sure that we in the Senate, the pensioners and the beneficiaries of pension benefits generally will be grateful for the very lucid explanation the Minister has given us on the place of a private member's Bill on this subject, and also for pinpointing very clearly the group which holds the responsibility for the decision in this matter and for the allocation of funds. I am sure that the pensioners will realise clearly that in future they must direct their comments to the Executive and any change which comes must come from that group. 
I am surprised and perhaps a little mystified at the Minister's exercise in semantics on whether the discussion we are having is political, economic or social. I find that any matters we deal with in this place are political. I find it difficult to define otherwise. Perhaps the Minister was looking rather in terms of motivation and was suggesting there was some political motivation behind the motion moved by  Senator Grimes.  I think that the record of  Senator Grimes  in this place and the record of his party speak for themselves.  His  motivation in moving this motion is based quite clearly on his knowledge of the needs of pensioners and the beneficiaries of pensions, and his compassion for them. I wonder whether the pensioners, in particular the age pensioners, throughout Australia who are cold and hungry would appreciate the Minister's economic argument, one which she put with such skill. I supose it demonstrates quite clearly the different approach of the two parties. Labor's concern in the area of social security quite obviously is for need, as it is in the area of education. We do not accept that we give pensioners what is left after we have bought VIP aeroplanes, after we have built High Courts and after we have given subsidies to people who do not need them. Rather we see that in matters of social security the need of the pensioner is the criterion, not what happens to be left over. 
I could not appreciate the logic behind the Minister's reference to the Hayden Budget. The Minister admitted that the Hayden Budget included six-monthly adjustments. She also admitted that it included the indexation of the unemployment benefit. Then in some way she justified her own action in not continuing that policy by saying that Labor did not do more. That is extraordinary logic for a woman with the Minister's background. 
My contribution in this debate will deal with the special problems faced by pensioners in the Northern Territory, particularly the age pensioners- those who qualify for benefits under the pensioner medical service; that is, those who are without other income. I refer to these people only because it is a graphic illustration of the effects of Government policy, of which annual indexation is one aspect although what I will have to say in this area applies to all pensioners and beneficiaries. There are several general factors that I might mention. Firstly, there is the high living cost in the Northern Territory. I am unable to give clear figures on this because despite the fact that I have asked for them on several occasions the Government says that it has no money to provide consumer price index figures for the Northern Territory. It says that it has no money for staff or expenses. However, it has been recognised in the district allowance paid by government and industry that there is a difference in the cost of living in the Northern Territory. There are different allowances for different areas but the cost of living is a significant part of the district allowance and, of course, pensioners get no district allowance. 
Prices are high in the Territory because there is little local production. When people try to produce locally the big stores insist on buying from the south because they maintain that they can have a firm supply for the 12 months. This also adds to the cost of living. Freight is a solid component of the cost of living in the Northern Territory and basically all of the goods used in the Northern Territory come from the south and are subject to freight charges. There is no recognition of this fact in the rate of pension or in the indexation of benefits. 
The next point is the steady increase in costs. Again, I can give no figures because we have no CPI figures. But quite obviously, we do have the effect of inflation on costs, including freight, all of which accumulate. I do not think that there would be any doubt that there is a steady increase in costs. Since this is the theme of the debate, I will not dwell on the point but will come back to it later. I wish now to raise a number of other matters. 
I would like to look at the specific areas where the pensioners of the Northern Territory are disadvantaged- Firstly, they are disadvantaged by the high costs of goods and services. I have already referred to this matter. I will not dwell on that point as I think that that is accepted by those people who have knowledge of the situation in the Northern Territory. Pensioners in the Northern Territory are disadvantaged also by the lack of concessions or assistance from either the Territory Government or the Federal Government. I commend the Territory Government for setting up a board of inquiry into welfare needs, which will look at the problems of pensioners and other people with needs. Of course, until its report becomes public and the information it is going to give us is known to us we must assume that what exists at the moment will continue to exist. Too often people have missed out by anticipating what might come out of a board of inquiry. Nevertheless, I do commend the Government for doing this. 
Another area in which the pensioners in the Northern Territory are disadvantaged is that of accommodation. It is common knowledge that housing is in short supply in the Northern Territory. Because of the normal market situation of supply and demand costs are high. Rent is high, the cost of buying a house is high and the cost of maintaining a house is high. Unfortunately, there is insufficient subsidised accommodation in the Territory. So many of the pensioners and beneficiaries live in single rooms. It would be disturbing to honourable senators to know that a pensioner in the Northern Territory might pay $35 a week for a single room without any cooking facilities- just a place in which to lay his head. The Australian Council on the Ageing has added to this picture by reporting that people sleep on the floor after they have found accommodation because they have not sufficient money to buy furniture after paying their rent. What an indictment of our community that is! What reward is it to give those people who have pioneered the Territory a chance to sleep on bare boards because they cannot afford to buy furniture after they pay rent? 
The cost of subsidised accommodation in the Northern Territory is comparable with that in the States but the charges are not. In the States and in the Australian Capital Territory concessions apply which do not apply in the Northern Territory. I think it is important to look briefly at some of them. In the Northern Territory there is no concession for electricity, which everyone needs when living in an urban area. The charges are high and they are increasing. Water, sewerage and local government rates obviously affect those people who have their own homes or those who rent homes, but as well as that it would be a component of the rent paid by people who rent rooms or flats. 
In New South Wales the concession given is that it is mandatory to write off 50 per cent to a maximum of $120 on general rates and 50 per cent to a maximum of $60 on water and sewerage rates. Indeed, some councils in New South Wales provide additional concessions. South Australia offers a concession of 60 per cent with maximum reductions and these reductions are very liberal. In the Australian Capital Territory a 50 per cent concession applies simply on the production of a pensioner card. In the Northern Territory no concession whatsoever applies. It must be admitted that the city council tends not to sue for payment and it has some discretion as to whether it will allow the debts to build up and be taken from the estate of the person concerned. But there is no firm policy and the council acts on the discretion of an individual officer. So it is fair to say that basically there is no concession. 
I turn now to car registrations, which is an important matter. A group from the Combined Pensioners Association of Victoria who came to see us in late 1978 spoke of the great need that pensioners have for cars. They spoke of some pensioners having to pick up others to go to meetings and having to take shopping the people who could not drive or were incapacitated, or simply of pensioners getting out of the house, which is the only luxury that these people have. But surely we are not going to question the right of pensioners and beneficiaries to have a vehicle. 
I deplore the sort of antediluvian approach which states that it is some sort of crime to be on a pension and that in some way it is a person's own fault that he is on a pension and in receipt of some benefits. I deplore the concept of a pension being seen- apparently it was seen by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  as this- as some sort of largesse which is handed out by the state. I prefer to see it as moneys being repaid; moneys which are paid in during a lifetime of contribution being paid back to a person who needs them later. I make a side reference to the great advantages that the national superannuation scheme suggested by the Australian Labor Party would have in this sort of situation. 
Let us look at the concessions that apply to vehicle registration. In New South Wales a 90 per cent motor vehicle tax concession applies. In Victoria the totally and permanently incapacitated receive free registration. In Queensland a remission of half the motor vehicle registration fee applies. In the Northern Territory no concession at all applies. Again, I have called on the Government to introduce such concessions for the Northern Territory and honourable senators who sit in this place have heard me make this call on the Government. The Government says that it is considering the matter, but as yet, after over 1 2 months, I have not heard of a decision- I have received no reply. 
Let us look at the area of transport. In the Northern Territory pensioners and beneficiaries receive free travel on local buses. I commend the Government for that. It is a hangover from the days when the Commonwealth was responsible for the Northern Territory and this was allowed by the Commonwealth Government. For interstate travel the Commonwealth makes available half fares between capital cities, but of course charges for meals, sleepers and so on still have to be paid. Unfortunately, there are no trains in the Top End. We had a railways system- the North Australian Railways- which was cut out by the government of the day, the present Government. The only connection we have with capital cities is out of Alice Springs. As we all know, the bulk of the Territorians live in the Top End. McRobertson Miller Airline Services, to its credit, allows a 50 per cent reduction in fares in the off-peak season. But a pensioner's fare is not paid automatically every two years, as is the case for other people in the Territory. It has been agreed that this two-year fare is necessary for the health of the people who are working. How much more necessary is it for those people who perhaps are not as healthy as the people who are working because they are approaching the end of their lives? It is worth noting that both government and private employers have accepted the proposition concerning a two-year fare. 
I think I have said enough to demonstrate the special and specific disadvantages suffered by Northern Territory pensioners. Let us look briefly at the consequences of these disadvantages to these people. The situation has developed where pensioner associations and other groups have had to provide meals for pensioners because they cannot afford to buy them. I refer to the Pensioners Association and the Meals on Wheels organisation. They provide meals at a nominal charge of 80c and 50c a meal. I am advised by a field officer for the Council on the Ageing that for some people this meal represents their only meal for the day; their other two meals consist of, as he said, 'tea and bickies'. As far as I am concerned, this sort of approach of voluntary groups going out and seeking money and contributions of food and then of getting voluntary help to prepare meals looks good and the people who do the work are to be commended but it is not the sort of philosophy we want to see being adopted. It is rather reminiscent of the old soup kitchen philosophy. I find it anathema to what we call our affluent society. 
I refer again to a report from the field officer of the Council on the Ageing in which he told me that he sees the pensioners when they become down and out'. What does he mean by 'down and out'? He means people who have lost their dignity; people who have found, because of the problems that face them, an inability to cope. He means people who are in despair, people who are sick. He said that they are people who need preventive medicine. I should say that they have come after that stage; that they have come when they can no longer cope. He told me that more of these 'down and outs' have approached him in the past two years than previously. The more astute honourable senators on the other side of the chamber will say that that would not be the result of government policies because this system of indexing pensions has been introduced only recently. The whole point of what I am trying to say in my contribution is that the present imposition is just one more factor. 
The field officer reported to me an increase in illness among these people, particularly illnesses resulting from vitamin deficiencies and slow malnutrition.  His  comments are supported by the dietician at the hospital. There are answers to the particular problems faced by the Northern Territory pensioners. Obviously among them is the introduction of a district allowance and the provision of a set of rebates and concessions by the Northern Territory and local government, perhaps including concessions in regard to charges for rent and electricity. Since food forms the greatest part of a budget, what I see is needed is the provision of some sort of district allowance to compensate for high food costs. 
Mentioning the cost of food brings us back to the terms of the motion before us. The simple fact is that the age pensioners in the Northern Territory who qualify for pensioner medical cards are living below the poverty line and the introduction of 12-monthly indexation will simply exacerbate the situation and ensure that these people live further below the poverty line. Some might say that the pensioners should just move out of the Territory. Many have done so because they cannot afford to live there. What an insult to our pioneers, to ask them to build our Territory for us, to get it ready for us and then to move out. It seems to me that this is the height of selfishness. Of course, many people would say that they cannot live in the south, that they must live in the tropics for their health. 
I have run out of time so I finish up with the following comment: I have said much in this place about territorians being the poor cousins of Canberra. If we in the Territory are the poor cousins, on the whole, then pensioners are the forgotten ones, the fringe dwellers of our society. I call on the Government to recognise the contribution our pioneers have made and to show both justice and compassion towards their needs. I think that all of us in this place should support the proposition put forward by  Senator Grimes  not only on moral grounds and in justice, but also because of the simple, old truism: 'There but for the grace of God go I'. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Is it a fact that the Supervising Scientist appointed by the Government to supervise the mining of uranium in the Northern Territory is to live in Canberra? If this is a fact, does the Minister not agree that it is most inappropriate? Will he take steps to see that the Supervising Scientist is located in the Northern Territory, preferably in what the Government calls the uranium province, in order to enable him to carry out his duties effectively? 
I wish to raise the matter of the proposed casino at Mindil Beach in the Northern Territory. It is most appropriate that  Senator Webster,  the Minister for Science and the Environment, is here tonight as he has a particular interest in this subject. The Minister will be aware of a proposal to build a casino at Mindil Beach, Darwin, in the Northern Territory. My concern, and the concern of a large number of people in the Northern Territory, is that no environmental impact study has been made of the proposal to build the casino. I call on the Minister to respond to the submission which the Save Mindil Committee has already sent and of which no doubt he has a copy. I want to make it clear at this stage that I am not discussing the desirability of casinos per se or of a casino in the Northern Territory. Contrary to the emotional outbursts by the Chief Minister in the Northern Territory I have not made a comment on this subject, nor do I intend to do so in the adjournment debate tonight. 
The question to which I wish to direct my attention is the erection of a building on the foreshore. The fact is that the building is to be a casino. Let me give a brief background to the matter to assist the Minister in his consideration of the subject. The casino was first mooted in 1976. Although the Minister probably will not recall it, on 10 November 1976 1 asked him a question on this matter. He responded on behalf of the then Minister for the Northern Territory,  Mr Evan  Adermann, and said that he had no knowledge of the building of any casino. At that time an advertisement had been placed for an investor with $15m to $20m to spend who would be interested in building a casino in the Northern Territory. 
The next step occurred on 23 December 1977 when the Northern Territory Government sought entrepreneurs interested in establishing casinos in Darwin and Alice Springs. An executive member,  Mr Tuxworth,  went to Hobart in January 1978 and had discussions with personnel from Federal Hotels. He came back and announced that Mindil Beach had been selected as the ideal site for a casino. An officer from Federal Hotels,  Mr Farrell,  said that he knew of the opposition to the Mindil site but that Mindil was the ideal place. He claimed that it was the best place in Darwin for a casino and went so far as to say that any other site which might be selected would retard the development 12 months. Following this the Government changed the town plan and this caused a great deal of comment. I would like to read from the  Northern Territory News  of that time an article headed: 'Rezoning Recalls Gilruth'. The article states: 

 Chairman of the Save Mindil Committee,  Mr Barry  Spurr, has called the rezoning of the casino site at Mindil beach government a la Gilruth. ' 
He claimed the Government was ruling by executive decision rather than by representation of the people. 
The new Darwin town plan showed the Mindil beach area zoned 01 and 02 (public open space) before it went to Cabinet. 
The zoning was altered to B5- commercial development- on Monday. 
Labor Member for Fannie Bay,  Mrs Pam  0'Neil said the rezoning was a 'dictatorial action reminiscent of some of the worst examples of Canberra decision-making! 
The acting Chief Minister,  Mr Perron,  said today: "It was obvious the Mindil site would have to be rezoned to allow the complex to replace the caravan park. 
Even Blind Freddy could have worked that out two months ago when the site was announced, ' he said. 
If the Acting Chief Minister makes those comments one has to suggest that perhaps the Northern Territory is like the country of the blind where the one-eyed man is king. But the Government changed the plan. Let me quote now from the  Star  of 25 January this year, which gives details of the matter. The newspaper states: 
The corner of Mindil selected as the site of Darwin's proposed casino is no longer shown on the Town Plan as being for recreation. 
And the change has been made without the people of Darwin being given the opportunity to object. 
Normally the Town Planning Board, which is responsible for the Town Plan, would have published notice of the proposed change for four consecutive days. 
Citizens would then have 28 days to lodge objections. 
If the Town Planning Board disregarded those objections the decisions could be appealed. 
And so the article goes on. Basically the Mindil Redevelopment involves 15.1 acres of what was recreation reserve. The buildings that have been proposed for the casino will cover 1.7 acres. The balance will be landscaped and there will be car parks and so on. The building which is to be erected on the site has been referred to in a statement put out by the Acting Chief Minister as follows: 
Eighty-eight double rooms and eight luxury suites are planned. A pyramid tower equivalent to five stories in height will contain entry lobby, guest reception, retail shops, a casino, four bars, a ISO seat grill room, 300 seat cabaretdining, a convention area for a capacity 300 and an a la cane dining room for ISO. Landscaped gardens and recreation facilities will add to the resort atmosphere- swimming pools, tennis courts, bowling and putting greens and a health club. 
The Save Mindil Committee has claimed that the development will destroy the beach. This clearly is outlined in the document which the Minister for Science and the Environment has in his hand. The development will create, the Committee claims, a situation similar to that at Surfers Paradise where a lot of development has occurred close to the shore. People of all political persuasions have signed petitions. Well over 3,000 signatures will be forwarded to the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister himself called the Save Mindil Committee an 'ALP front', a statement which caused almost as much furore as the Chief Minister's original decision. I will not go into the details. Plenty of evidence from Country Liberal Party supporters suggests that the Chief Minister was as wrong on that statement as he is on most other matters. 
I do not intend to canvass the arguments of the Save Mindil Committee. They are well covered in the document and I commend them to the Minister. My concern is to bring to the attention of the Minister the fact that no environmental impact study has been undertaken. The Chief Minister has claimed that there was one. Let me read from a Press release put out by the Chief Minister which states: 
Although the Government was not compelled to carry out an environmental impact study, environmental considerations had been taken into account. 

 Mr Everingham stated: 
The foreshore studies indicate the casino will not unduly affect the environment, as the development is further back than the existing caravan park. 
I draw to the Minister's attention the fact that the report to which  Mr Everingham  is referring is entitled: 'Environmental Planning and Coastal Management Study' and relates to Vesteys.Mindil Beach and Casuarina-Lee Point Beach. It was prepared by the Department of Construction for the Department of the Northern Territory in June 1 978. It had nothing to say about the casino. It certainly was not an environmental impact study in the sense that we would understand one. It did not consider the impact of the building of the casino on that site. The report deals with extensions to the caravan park but virtually nothing else, as far as we are concerned, about development. 
I ask the Minister to give serious consideration to calling for an environmental impact statement before any development proceeds. There is no doubt that the Federal Government has the right to do so. I draw attention to a paper produced by our own Parliamentary Legislative Research Service and headed 'Environmental Conditions or Safeguards applying to projects in the Northern Territory since the conferral of selfgovernment'. The paper begins by saying: 
Before self-government on 1 July 1978, the Commonwealth Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1 974 applied to all projects in the Northern Territory. 
It then puts the argument for the legislation still to apply. It finishes virtually with this decision: 
Consequently, without any provision to the contrary, it can only be concluded that the Environment Protection ( Impact of Proposals) Act continues to apply to ail projects in the Territory after self-government. 
I have indicated that the Federal Government has the right to do this. I now suggest to the Minister that it has a responsibility to do so. The Northern Territory Government is a new government feeling its way. In keeping with sentiments which were expressed in this place and other places when the Northern Territory (SelfGovernment) Bill was being discussed Federal colleagues, as suggested, might assist their colleagues in the Northern Territory as they move towards their own political maturity. I suggest that the Minister has the right and the responsibility to do so. He also has the responsibility to protect the rights of the Territorians. 
I appreciate the fact that this is an emotional issue. I suggest that the way to diffuse the issue is to have a study made and a statement put out. The building of the casino or the erection of any other building on that site can then be considered in the light of that study. The thrust of my plea to the Minister tonight is that he might help to resolve this matter in a mature and sensible way. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Have the directors of Flinders Petroleum NL called on the Minister to ensure that Aboriginal land claims do not hold up the exploitation of oil deposits in the Northern Territory? If they have, will the Minister assure the Senate and the people of Australia that any land claims on the area in question made by the Central Land Council will not be subjected to undue pressure? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I thank the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  for his contribution, although I would suggest to him that he let senators on this side decide what we regard as a matter of urgency. He can regard what he likes as a matter of urgency. It is amazing how much enthusiastic comment we get from the other side about how the Opposition might run its Caucus, how it might run its party and how it might operate. Nevertheless I want to make only one comment on what the Minister said. He said he selected figures, and he used that word carefully, to compare the attitude of the Australian Labor Party and the attitude of the present Government. Perhaps one of the subsequent speakers may follow up by relating his figures back to the cost of living.  Senator Button  has looked at the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances. I understand that  Senator Ryan  is going to continue with that. I am going to touch only slightly on TEAS and look at a number of other matters. Before I do that I would like perhaps to give a little background which I think is necessary when we are considering the philosophies of the Labor Government and the present Government and the way each has approached this matter of allowances. 
We all know that the provision of assistance was introduced in 1943 with the Commonwealth Financial Assistance Scheme for the payment of fees and living allowances. Of course, all of that was means tested, both to the recipient and the parent. In 1951 the Commonwealth Scholarship Scheme catered for between 1,700 and 3,000 people. The Martin report about that time suggested that there should be development of advanced education. So, we had the University Scholarship Scheme which looked after 6,000 recipients and the Commonwealth Advanced Education Scholarship Scheme which looked after 1,000 recipients. Of course, as we all know, this was based solely on academic merit. It is most interesting for those of us who have an interest in technical education to see that the Commonwealth Technical Scholarship Scheme was introduced in 1965. There was a general feeling at the end of this time that perhaps the Government was catering for an elitist group. There were certainly many criticisms around the country. So the Student Assistance Bill was introduced into the House of Representatives by  Mr Beazley  in 1973. 1 would like to read a couple of extracts from the brief speech the then Minister made at the second reading stage. In discussing the Bill he said this: 
It complements this Government's decision to abolish fees in tertiary and post-secondary technical institutions and the effect of both these actions will be to ensure that hardship or poverty do not prevent a student from taking advantage of the opportunity for further study. 
Later in the same speech he had this to say: 
There is a clear need for flexibility in administration of student assistance schemes and I know that honourable members will be aware of the many and varied problems which students must face, and the difficulties and indeed injustices which may occur because of too rigid an application of rules and conditions. 
Towards the end of the speech he said: 
The schemes covered by this legislation will provide assistance for probably more than 125,000 students in 1974. The Bill does not cover all the Government's schemes of student assistance. We intend to introduce further legislation for isolated children, Aboriginal students and students receiving benefits under the Government's new secondary allowances scheme. Students should be going through a period of life when they have the leisure to think as well as the need to study. An age of speed does not easily lend itself to the creation of great new productive ideas. The function of education in a world in crisis is to develop people who can fashion a new and inspiring civilisation- people who have the moral and intellectual qualities, and the sensitivity to produce a renaissance. 
He introduced this scheme which, of course, at that time dealt basically with senior secondary scholarships, postgraduate awards and tertiary education. He said that the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme was a major step taken by the Government in its program to produce a revolution of access to education. So there is an indication here of a difference of attitude in the philosophy of education, as between the Labor Government and the present Government. 
I do not want to go into the detail of TEAS but I do draw attention to the fact that about this time there were a number of criticisms of it. I read from a report prepared by the Legislative Research Section of the Parliamentary Library as follows: 
A number of specific criticisms and proposals for reform of the scheme were advanced by the Australian Union of Students. The AUS maintained that improved accessibility to tertiary education was dependent not only on'. . . the widening of admissions policies, provision of a diversity of courses,  etc. but  was also dependent'. . . on Inc degree of financial support that a student can gain while undertaking a course'. The AUS viewed the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme as '. . . a major advance in student financing in this country . . .', but felt that it required  . . . considerable alteration and restructuring if it is to cope with the changes education will experience in future years'. 
As a result of the criticisms, and recognising that there were some difficulties, the Minister set up the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training, which came out with a number of recommendations. I will just briefly read through the major recommendations. They were as follows: 
One student allowance to cover students' needs over one year, not one academic year. Allowance adjusted twice yearly. Dependents' allowances adjusted in line with corresponding special service benefits. No change in conditions governing eligibility for living away from home except independent status granted where parents refuse support or where it is unsuitable for the person to stay at home. The means test for dependent students applied on the gross income of both parents with deductions allowed for actual income paid for one parent in the two-parent family. Maximum income which would attract maximum allowance would be related to yearly equivalent of average male weekly earnings. 
There were some other recommendations but they are the major ones. I raise them only to point out that they have not been followed by the present Government; not one of these recommendations has been implemented. Obviously it was agreed by Beazley at the time he set up the Committee that the scheme was introduced quickly and that he was aware of the inadequacies. So he set up the Committee to investigate. These major recommendations have not been implemented. It would follow that obviously the present scheme is inadequate on that score alone. 
My colleague  Senator Button  has covered the financial inadequacies of TEAS and there is no point in reiterating them. So I would like to look at a number of other areas. I am pleased that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  raised the Aboriginal Secondary Grant Scheme which is of interest both to him and to me. He will recall that in 1976 a report was produced by Professor Betty Watts. It recommended the continuance of the scheme with some modifications. The scheme has continuedthis is a good thing and we commend it- but the modifications suggested by Professor Betty Watts have not been implemented. Because of that very fact, in this area again there must be some area of inadequacy. Postgraduate courses have been mentioned this morning and were the subject of questions yesterday. Much was made of the fact that there was an increase in the amount of money paid to Ph.D. students but there was no mention of taxation until it was raised on this side of the chamber this morning. There was no mention either, although an interjection to this effect was made yesterday, of the decrease in the numbers of Ph.D. students. There might be some comments to be made about this. Surely we do not see here a return to the Menzies days of pork-barrelling whereby we give assistance to a small number and say: 'Look, we are doing wonders in the field of education'. Surely we must have a different approach to this. This is the wrong approach to student assistance. 
I would like to look briefly at non-tertiary education in the sense of non-university education. There was an initial cutback in assistance to the pre-apprenticeship group and the preemployment group. Some suggestions have been raised that some schemes which have been developed lately are a substitute for unemployment benefits in an attempt to say: 'Although there are no jobs available we will train people for them and call these training schemes good things'. This sort of cosmetic approach is not sound thinking in education. There is no real assistance in retraining, particularly for the man who wants to change his job. If a man wanted to change his job to achieve job satisfaction he would be in extreme trouble. 
I would like to raise another matter now. It is unfortunate that  Senator Davidson  is not present in the chamber because as  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts which investigated isolated children he would be particularly interested in what we have to say here. He has spoken in this place on many occasions about the need for the Government to increase its assistance to isolated children. The Senate will recall that in July 1976 that Committee put down a report. The Committee reported that it found many injustices and that isolated children were badly disadvantaged when compared with children in the town. The Committee made certain recommendations. By mentioning  Senator Davidson's  name one will know that there is no need for me to comment that these recommendations were fairly conservative. They were certainly not radical. I will just read a number of the recommendations from the report. Recommendation No. 5 was: 
The Commonwealth Government review its educational policy in the Northern Territory to ensure equal educational opportunity for both Aboriginal and European children. 
Recommendation No. 8 was: 
Funds be made available through State education authorities in the form of increased per capita grants to registered residential establishments to subsidise the cost of upgrading and maintaining the existing hostels in country areas. 
Recommendation No. 1 1 was: 
The payment of benefits under the Assistance for Isolated Children Scheme be continued and that levels of assistance and application of the means test for additional allowances be reviewed annually so that allowances are paid at a rate commensurate with education expenditure. 
Recommendation No. 12 was: 
The Government examine the taxation deductions presently allowable for educational expenses incurred by parents with a view to increasing the maximum deduction allowable. 
Recommendation No. 28 was: 
The Commonwealth Government, as a matter of urgency, investigates whether State Governments have enough SSB transceivers to meet the needs of all schools of the air and grants to the States whatever amount is needed to remedy any deficiency. 
Recommendation No. 32 was: 
The Commonwealth Government review annually the basic $200 payment of the correspondence allowance to compensate for the effects of inflation and that the criteria of approved expenditure governing payment of the second component of the allowance be reviewed regularly. 
As  Senator Davidson  has said a number of times in this place, not one of those recommendations has been accepted by the Government to help those children in the country. In this area it is quite clear that injustice has occurred. Let me conclude with a number of simple examples which will strike a chord in the hearts of most of those who are listening. The first is the high cost of text books in secondary schools. I do not think I need to dwell on this. We know that text book costs for fifth and sixth formers are about $150. If we get no assistance in this area, surely the poorer families are going to be at an extreme disadvantage. In my earlier remarks I mentioned Beazley 's insistence upon flexibility. Here is an area where the Government could look to its Department. We are seeing a strict application of regulations, just as in other areas of government assistance we are seeing a definite attempt to cut back the number of people receiving assistance, whether it be welfare benefits, unemployment benefits or any of the other benefits. 
I quote just one case simply because it is known to the Minister. A young man brought his case to me when he could not establish independence in order to receive the full time allowance. He was a few days short. The reason why he could not establish this was that he had refused to accept unemployment benefit and had preferred to live on his accumulated capital. He was able to show that he had sought work, he was able to show that he lived independently but he had not looked for unemployment benefit. Because of that he was denied the opportunity. The Minister has looked at this case. I do not want to give the full details but the attitude of the Department was: 'No, this case does not exactly meet the criteria; therefore, it is denied '. 

 Senator Ryan will be looking at the new rules on vacation work and part-time work, all of which create injustice. If we are to have real student assistance, if the Government is really dinkum about this matter, we must have the basic concept or the underlying philosophy that the students must have an opportunity to study without the external pressures of worry. If we really want students to go ahead and prepare themselves to make their contribution, as Beazley said in his brilliant second reading speech, we would want them to do it without any need to worry; we would certainly want them to do it without having to engage in part-time work; and we would certainly want them to do it without dependence on parents or a partner or a marriage of convenience to which  Senator Button  referred. There must be equal opportunity for all, surely, right across the board whether in relation to apprenticeship training or PhD work. Different people have different qualities, different abilities. The assistance must not be simply an alternative to the unemployment benefit. Of course, employment opportunity must be available. 
The Government surely stands condemned for the fact that it has not implemented the Williams report. It gives assistance grudgingly, taking every opportunity to deny it. It gives with the one hand and takes with the other, as in the case of the PhD students. We have no acceptance of the Australian Union of Students recommendations seeking an assistance level above the poverty line and we have no implementation of the recommendations of the Senate committee's report. The Government policy appears to be to keep education- hence power, because education is related to power, there is a quite clear connection- in the club and to deny access to those who wish to break out of their situation of disadvantage. The basic political philosophy be: hind the Government's policy is a continuation of the Menzies approach which has been criticised by almost every advanced thinker in the field of education. In every area the same philosophy pervades the whole approach: Forget the need and maintain the structure. In every speech that I have made in this chamber on education I have come to the same conclusion and have ended with the same comment: The Government  is regressive in its approach to education. 
I  take the opportunity on this first reading of these money Bills to deal with two broad areas, namely, the entry to Australia of foreign born wives of Australian nationals and later the action of the Northern Territory Government in extending the limits of towns in the Northern Teritory. 
Looking first at the topic of the entry to Australia of foreign born wives of Australian nationals, I am prompted to raise this subject because of the problems faced by men in Darwin who have married girls from Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and other such places. Let me assure my female colleagues that I am not being chauvinistic about this matter. I have no knowledge of the problems faced by Australian female nationals who go overseas and are in the same situation. What I am saying will apply to both male and female Australian nationals. I will draw my examples from men because they are the ones whose cases I have in front of me. I will use that gender in the argument. 
Now, men who go overseas seeking foreign born wives usually do it in two ways. Either they go overseas to marry after a mail courtship or they go overseas for a holiday, meet a woman and marry her. The first group- that is, those who have a courtship by mail and then go overseas and marry- do not have a great deal of difficulty if they make the arrangements before they go. I stress this: Arrangements must be made beforehand. There are a number of formalities both from Australia and from the country of origin of the wife that must be dealt with. I ask simply of the Government, or the Department in this case, that some publicity be given to the fact that there are formalities that must be observed. 
The second group do face difficulties. They are the group who go to a place overseas, marry and want to bring their wives home with them. Of course, one can accept the proposition that they would want to bring their wives home. They go to the embassy or the commission and are told that they will have a wait of anything up to eight or nine months before they can bring their wives home. It is not usually as long as that- I should make that point- but they are told this. They are told that that could be the time lag before the wives will be free to join them in Australia. 
They are told to go back to Australia, to make application here and then the formalities will proceed. In other words, after the wedding, after any time they may spend with their new wives in the country, any Australian national is told to leave his wife behind and return to Australia and make application there. 
Mind you, it is a little disturbing that, if the husband does stay a couple of weeks longer in the country of origin of his wife, he can often make the arrangements and bring his wife back with him. I have seen this happen. I have seen a number of cases. I have no idea how they managed to do it when the Department told them that it would take eight or nine months but they managed to get through the formalities in a couple of weeks. Nevertheless, this has happened. I am concerned more at this stage about the husband who does take the advice of the commission or embassy and does come home to wait some months for his wife. I am disturbed about the one who is able to stay, who can afford to stay that extra two or three weeks and then bring his wife back with him. I am concerned because it indicates a lack of consistency and a lack of good advice on the part of the embassy or commission. I will come back to that proposition later on because there are one or two other examples that I want to mention. 
I put the proposition quite clearly that the wife of an Australian national should be allowed immediate entry to Australia subject only to a medical check for contagious disease. I stress the word 'contagious'. I have had a case indicated to me of a man whose wife was not allowed into Australia because she suffered from epilepsy. This to me is incredible. We know that tuberculosis is a problem in some of the South East Asian countries. Again I do not see that there should be any problem if the wife has non-active TB. There is no reason why she should not come home with him, with treatment provided for her by her husband in Australia. The treatment is the responsibility of the husband. It is exactly the same situation if a man married a local girl who was later found to have TB and it needed treatment. 
Obviously we all know what will be said: Women will marry to get into the country. We will have marriages of convenience. As soon as the wife gets here, she will leave the husband and remain in Australia. This is said because it is a nice easy generalisation. I see it as an insult to the husband. It denies him relationship which he has built up with this woman he has chosen to marry. There is no doubt that if there were cases of this, they would be in the minority. It seems most unfortunate to keep out the majority who would wish to come in to try to meet the problem created by the minority. 
When we were dealing with the Cyclone Tracy fund, I remember a comment made by an officer of the Salvation Army. We were not dealing with this problem; we were dealing with the distribution of funds. He made a statement that the philosophy of the Army was that it is 'better to be had than be hard'. I think that that is not a bad thought to keep at the back of our mind. If the Department or the Government is concerned that there are these marriages of convenience, and that women will come here, drop their husbands and go off into other areas of Australia, surely it would not be beyond the wit of the Department to devise some sort of scheme of length of time that the couple must stay together. There could perhaps be a 12-month limit or some such time set. I am sure that this would be acceptable. I am sure also that every man who marries would expect the marriage lasts. We could have some sort of entry visa for 12 months to allow the wife to come back with her husband and then continue to live with him in Australia. 
Of course, the next thing that people will say is that the wife must be carefully screened. She might perhaps be undesirable politically. Let us face it: There are many politically undesirable people in Australia. The Government benches are full of them. We should not keep a person out of the country because of that particular problem. But again, seriously, it is an insult to the husband to say that he has not made the right selection. There must be no discrimination on the basis of politics or religion, against the people we bring to Australia. I think there would be a general acceptance of that proposition in this chamber. The other situation that is suggested is that hasty marriages do not last and it is good to make people wait. I will not accept this proposition because I do not agree with this sort of paternalistic approach by any government. After all, it is a cheek to suggest to a man that he has married in this short two or three weeks time and that he had better go home and think it over before he marries. One could even put the proposition: What percentage of local marriages last? It is not a decision for a government or a department to make. It is a decision for the man and for the woman involved. 
A cynic might say that the Australian national overseas has few rights. Because in this matter residents have the same rights as the nationals; or, putting the emphasis the other way, nationals have no advantage in being Australian nationals in this matter. Let us look at a couple of other countries to see what they do. I have information from the High Commissioner's office of the United Kingdom that if a British man marries a Commonwealth citizen- and that is an interesting phrase for us because, perhaps we do not recognise Commonwealth citizens as such; in other words a member of a country which is part of the great Commonwealth- he simply has to obtain a certificate of partiality and then there is immediate entry. This is for places like Sin- gapore,Indiaandsomeoftheotherplacesto which our Australian nationals go. If a British man marries other than a Commonwealth citizen- in other words, marries a woman from a country which does not contribute to our Commonwealth heads of government conferences- a visa will be issued within a few days. 
I put this hypothetical case to the High Commission. Assume a man went on a holiday for a month and met a girl in the first week. Could he bring her home with him? It was quite clear that that would be plenty of time for a visa to be issued and for the wife to accompany her husband home. 
The situation in New Zealand, to take the example of our near neighbour, is that if applicants marry in a place such as the Philippines, they make an application for entry to New Zealand and it is processed immediately. Again probably a couple of weeks' was the comment made. There are some limitations on people coming into New Zealand, but the comment made by the High Commissioner was that the wife would be unlikely to be debarred on the grounds that apply to other applicants- that is those who do not apply as the wife of a New Zealand national. I refer to physical fitness, educational level and so on. Other countries could also be studied, but I mentioned those two simply to give an example. Much more could be said, but I do not want to hold up the Senate on this subject. I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  to consider this matter and perhaps to suggest a full debate on it. The Minister might care to have a statement made in this place to justify the present policy and then allow honourable senators on both sides of the chamber to debate it. 
I would like to mention a couple of other matters in the broad field of immigration. Before I do so, let me make it quite clear that I am not critical of the Department. I do not raise this as a criticism. I raise it as a matter of policy, which is a government matter. I have good relationships with the officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, as no doubt all of us here do. I do not agree with some of the policy decisions, but certainly, as I indicated earlier, they are the responsibility not of the officers but of the Government. I would like to look firstly at the matter of refusing to issue nomination forms for entry. Obviously a decision has been made by the Department to restrict the issue of these nomination forms. No doubt this is a result of the staff cuts and the economy drive of the Government, but it has caused a number of problems. I cite an example from Fiji. The  Fiji Times  of 4 January this year carried an article headed: Australia changes its immigration rules'. I would like to read part of it because there is a lot of good information in it. It states: 
Fiji citizens may now find it easier to migrate to Australia if they have relatives or friends there. 
A change in Australian migration policy includes a relaxation of conditions for re-uniting families, the Australian High Commission said in a statement issued by it in Suva yesterday. 
Quoting the Australian Minister for Immigration,  Mr Michael  MacKellar, it said if a prospective migrant had friends or relatives in Australia already this would be 'one factor taken into consideration because of the obvious advantage this gave in overcoming settlement problems. ' 
Australia wanted to further emphasise family reunion while 'maintaining a proper standard of selectivity,'  Mr MacKellar  said. 
Later in the article this was written: 

 Mr MacKellar said the new system eliminated race, colour, nationality, descent, ethnic origin and sex as points factors. 
What mattered was economic and employment aspects and the personal and settlement side of migration. 
Some of the factors are: 
Work skill standards possessed by an applicant and the demand in Australia for these. 
The employment record and experience and personal qualities applicable to proposed employment in Australia. 
Whether an applicant had a job waiting in Australia, or enough money to start a business. 
Fluency in English, standard of education and literacy. 
An applicants approach to migration, his financial worth, and sponsorship or nomination by a relative or friend . . . 

 Mr MacKellar said the new system was the product of 'the most comprehensive review of immigration  policy in Australia 's history ' and was intended to achieve a net gain of 70,000 people a year during the first three years of its use. 
Not surprisingly, many people in Fiji were interested in this article and in coming to Australia. Many felt that they met the criteria outlined in the article. They contacted an Indian Fijian in Australia who is now an Australian citizen. 
This man of whom I am speaking went to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and asked for a bundle of nomination forms so that he could complete them. The girl at the desk asked for details of those he wished to nominate and, on the basis of his reply, refused to give him forms. As far as I am concerned, this is completely untenable. A decision of this sort cannot be fairly made at the front desk. With respect, each nomination is entitled to consideration. I am not being at all critical of the girl at the front desk, but obviously more consideration is needed than just an oral recitation of the names of the people who wish to come in and the criteria that they hope to use. The man then went further and asked for the guidelines on which the officer was basing her decision. He was told that guidelines were not available and that, because the Government is constantly changing its policy, they could not be printed. I accept that the Government often changes its policy, but surely a statement must be available. It must be available to the officer behind the desk and it must be freely available to anyone who seeks the information. 
The guidelines, or preferably a copy of them, must be accessible to citizens. At least people should be able to have a look at them. 
I would like to cite another incident which deals with the consistency I mentioned earlier. Following representations from a constituent, I sought approval for a man travelling to Holland to bring back his nephew with him. I put the case to the Minister, it was considered and the Minister wrote back and said that the nephew would not be permitted to enter Australia. In other words, he denied the application. I met the man in the street a few weeks later and went to commiserate with him on the Minister's decision. He introduced me to his nephew who had come back with him. This perhaps can be said to be an isolated incident, but it is not good enough. Obviously this situation will be duplicated through the various offices in Australia. I stress that there is a need for a consistent policy both in Australia and overseas. There is a need to investigate whether perhaps some of the local staff of the embassies and the high commissions have been the recipients of gifts. These claims have been made. I have not made them and I do not make them here, but certainly claims have been made. It helps if one is prepared to pay sufficient money to the local staff- presumably the locally recruited staff. I do not wish to pursue the matter at this stage. It is not the issue at which I want to look. But I ask the Minister to look at the situation facing the Australian national who marries overseas and wishes to bring his wife back to Australia. I ask the Minister to make conditions easier for such a person to do so. 
I move now to the second of the topics that I would like to look at in this debate on the motion for the first readings of these Bills- the action of the Northern Territory Government in extending the limits of towns in the Northern Territory. This matter has received a good deal of publicity in the last few days, both here and in the Northern Territory. It has been claimed by the newspapers, rightly I believe, that this action was taken as a ploy to pre-empt Aboriginal land claims. The matter has already been raised at Question Time by  Senator Bonner  who beat me to the punch on Wednesday after I had failed to be called to ask a question on Tuesday. I do not mind that, because it shows that there is a nonpartisan approach to this situation. I hope that the comments I will make now will be seen in the same non-partisan way. I am concerned, as no doubt  Senator Bonner  and other honourable senators are, that the rights of the Aboriginal people be safeguarded. I do not think I have to remind honourable senators that the Aboriginal 
Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act restricts a claim to unalienated Crown land and specifically excludes areas within town boundaries. Of course, as we know from the Act, these are subject to a needs claim only. With that in our minds, we understand why the Northern Territory Government took the action that it did take. 
I make the point also that the action was taken by regulation. In other words, there was no public notice of an intention to do this thing, there was no chance of public objection, as there should be to the change of any town plan, there was no consultation with the Aboriginal people, there was no consultation with the rural communities and, I assume, although I have no information about this, there was no consultation with local government. I make this statement because quite clearly last year the members of the Howard Springs group overwhelmingly rejected a suggestion that they might become part of the city of Darwin. I do not think I need to go into the reason why they rejected the proposition that they should be included in the city council area. It is not necessary to dwell on it. 
I am not a lawyer but I would suggest that the action which has been taken by the Northern Territory Government could possibly be ultra vires- beyond the law. What was done? The limits of Darwin were extended from Cox Peninsula to Adelaide River. Those who know the Territory will know that Adelaide River is about 70 miles from Darwin. I understand that the area which has been gazetted- I have before me a map of the area which unfortunately cannot be included in  Hansard-is  in excess of 4,000 square kilometres, which is greater, I understand, than the area of Greater London. It includes claims of the Larakeyah tribe and other tribes. I should like to read comments from the  Star,  a newspaper circulating in Darwin, which was published last week. I will not read the whole article but in speaking of the changes it said: 
The changes were made by regulation. 
These were published in the Northern Territory Government Gazette No. 52 of December 29, 1978. 
Later in the article- I read these comments just to indicate the reaction of some of the locals- it was stated: 
The NLC's - 
That is, the Northern Land Council's-   . . chief field officer,  Mr Gavin  O'Brien, says the notification of the changes was made just one day before the now adjourned hearing of the claim to Dum-In-Mirrie  Island began. 
So much for  Mr Everingham  's promise of consultation', he says. 'But we understand that Europeans living on the Cox Peninsula have not been told either. 
And these changes will affect them'. 

 Mr O'Brien says the Aborigines will proceed with their claims despite the changes. 
We basically say that the Territory Government is attempting to circumvent land claims. There was no consultation before it acted. 
Yet  Mr Everingham  had said consultation was the best method '. 
In the Katherine area the township has been extended to include the area of the Gorge and the area leading up to the Gorge. Many claims in this area have been made and many can be made. The Alice Springs township has been extended to include many land claim areas in the Alice Springs area. Perhaps the very disturbing situation is that of Borroloola, as if Borroloola and the people there had not been treated sufficiently harshly by the Toohey decision last year. I have spoken on this matter, as have others. In the  Sir Edward  Pellew group, one of the islands not granted by  Mr Justice  Toohey has been declared a town site. Obviously we know that the particular island- I mentioned this in my earlier speech- is one which is wanted by Mt Isa Mines for a deep sea port. This action will undercut the negotiations which were taking place between the Aboriginal people and Mt Isa Mines. The action cuts right across the intent of the Northern Territory land rights legislation. As far as I am concerned it is a 'slap in the eye' for the Federal Minister. It is not dissimilar to the action taken by the Queensland Government. The Minister has already been asked what action he intends to take. He says that he will 'have discussions' with the Chief Minister. One wonders whether he will cave in as did his predecessor in the Queensland situation. 
In view of the Northern Territory Government's decision, if the Aborigines do not get support from the Federal Government, what actions could they take? I stress that I am asking what actions they could take. I am not saying that they will take them but it would be understandable if they did. There are a number of actions which they could take. They could refuse permits to white people to enter Aboriginal land. One could imagine the effect this would have on the mining development, tourism and so on. They could refuse to consent to the transfer of the Kakadu National Park. A question was asked in this chamber today as to when the lease expired. There is no doubt- and possibly the questioner knew the answer when he asked the questionthat the lease expires on 30 April 1979. They may not renew that lease. Honourable senators can imagine the effect that would have, as it is a requirement of the Federal Government's plans. They might refuse to sign the Narbalek mining agreement which has not yet been signed by them. That would put a stop to that venture or at least delay it for quite some time and cause the Federal Government to have to intervene in the national interest, something which it is not doubt reluctant to do. They could issue proceedings for the exclusion of public roads from all Aboriginal lands. They could reallocate their resources to concentrate on land claims for Borroloola and not proceed with the land claims for the Alligator River stage 2 area. Those who have been following the situation in the Northern Territory will know the implications of such an action. 
These are extreme actions. I am not suggesting that the Aborigines are going to take such action but certainly they could do so and they could frustrate the present plans of the Federal Government. The Minister has indicated today that he has sought talks. Let us hope that they will be a little more productive than the talks which were held by his predecessor with the Queensland Government. I do not know whether he will do much good with his talks. I read from a Press statement put out on 7 March by the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory in which he said: 
The Northern Territory Government has done more for Aboriginal advancement in the past six months than Commonwealth governments of both political persuasions have achieved in the past 60 years. 
A man who makes those sorts of statements is not likely to be amenable to reason. Later in the Press statement, speaking of the action which he took to extend the town limits, he said: 
It was a simple move to ensure that there would be land available for urban expansion for industrialism, market gardening and farming use in the future. 
Finally, he said: 
The actions of the Northern Territory Government have been taken to meet the expectations of the whole Territory community now and in the future. 
There would be some challenge to the proposition that the comments made in that statement represented the justification, the rationalisation, the reason for the action taken by the Northern Territory Government. I call on the Federal Government to press its rights, to carry out the recommendations of the joint committee which put down its report last year and to take a stance on this issue to protect the rights of the Aboriginal people. The Northern Territory Government claims that it is looking to the future. I claim that it is attempting to frustrate Federal laws to protect the interests of small groups. I am not knocking the Northern Territory Government as I am so often accused of doing. I am simply interested in seeing the interests of the Aborigines protected and the Federal laws upheld and not frustrated. The Government has a clear responsibility in this matter, given to it by the 1967 referendum and the passage of the land rights legislation in this Parliament. If I can paraphrase the line that was used so often by people who learnt typing years ago, now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of the Aborigines and of justice. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. In response to a question of mine on Thursday, 22 February, concerning the location of the Supervising Scientist,  Senator Durack  replied: 
I will refer that question to the appropriate Minister. I am not really sure whether the Minister for Trade and Resources is responsible for the Supervising Scientist. I will investigate the matter and refer the question to the appropriate Minister. 
Has the Minister investigated the matter? Is he now in a position to give an answer to my question? 
I raise the topic of discrimination. The particular case I wish to discuss is the alleged discrimination against people of Greek origin in Darwin. I do so tonight because of its relationship to today's urgency debate and also because of an incident which happened in Darwin last week. Last Thursday a Greek born Australian came to me in a very disturbed state and put this question: Why do Australians hate Greeks? He gave examples of discrimination which I will give later. He was very concerned about this, and fearing that violence could follow- he was that disturbed- he had taken it upon himself to go around to a number of Greek clubs in Darwin to try to defuse the issue by saying to them: 'It is not a fact. Australians do not hate Greeks '. 
I was particularly disturbed about his concern, sufficiently so to investigate the matter. I contacted the Greek consul and leading citizens of Greek origin, businessmen, et cetera, and put this question to them: 'Do you see examples of discrimination against Australians of Greek origin in Darwin?' Some of them said that they had seen examples. Others said they could not give specific examples. But the general feeling was that there was discrimination. A stronger feeling was that a good number of Greeks in Darwin felt that there was discrimination. I contacted the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations. I was informed that some examples had been reported to that office. I was given information which I find particularly interesting, and I quote the actual comments made: 'In our experience when people say that there is discrimination there is a 90 per cent chance that they are right'. I think this matter should be of deep concern to all in the Senate and to the rest of Australia. 
Why do these people of Greek origin in Darwin think there is discrimination? I will give some examples, without any comment at all, just as they have been reported to me by a number of people. I think that the examples I give will provide a lead as to why some people believe that there is trouble. The first example is that the media discriminates against Greeks. I use the word 'Greek' and ask the Senate to accept that word as meaning Australians of Greek origin, rather than my using the phrase each time. 
When a Greek person is in trouble with the law the media tends to report it as 'Greek in assault case' or 'Greek drunken driver', rather than simply giving the person's name or stating a man convicted of drunken driving'. This became so apparent to members of the Greek community that a senior citizen went to the newspaper and threatened to sue it unless it stopped the practice. It has stopped the practice. But, unfortunately, I feel that a good deal of damage has been done. In Australia it is a trait that many of us prefer to think worse of minority groups. I think that the newspaper concerned has done irreparable harm in using that technique. 
Another area of concern is that of the police. A man reported to me that he went to the police station simply to have a statutory declaration signed. The officer at the counter allegedly replied 'Get one of your wog friends to sign it' and sent him from the station. Another example involves the traffic police who, instead of requesting the production of a licence or asking the usual question 'May I see your licence', allegedly have said on a number of occasions 'Another b . . . Greek' or have asked the question Are you a Greek'. 
A number of cases have been reported of Greek women being hassled in Government offices, both Territory Government and Federal 
Government, basically because of their inability to speak the language, or perhaps their inability to complete the sometimes complex forms. I remember one case of only a few weeks ago when an old territorian came to me most disturbed. My office is situated two or three floors above the Medibank office. This woman complained that a Greek woman had been given very rough treatment by the Medibank office and had been reduced to tears. She was sent from the Medibank office with the officer shouting at her, not speaking to her: 'Get out and don't come back until you have an interpreter'. 
It has been reported that the same sort of treatment has been given at the hospital. There has been a general lack of consideration for those people who are unable to speak English. Little attempt has been made to accommodate those people and little sympathy has been shown for the person with an obvious difficulty. Obviously, if women go into hospital and they do not have a facility in the English language they tend to take an interpreter with them. But emergencies do arise and this must have been one of them. I think I have given enough examples to suggest that the Greek people believe that discrimination exists. If we follow the comment made by the officer from the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations, we ought to be concerned about this because it is possible that discrimination does exist. 
Two other factors must be taken into account. The first is that there is a high level of unemployment in the Northern Territory. Because many of the Greeks are involved in the building trade, probably a good number of them are unemployed. I have spoken in this place before about the effect on the building industry of the government cutbacks. Certainly the people who work in that industry are more likely to be affected than other people. There is a reluctance on the part of Greek people to register as unemployed. I do not know whether this is a cultural factor, whether there is some loss of face or some shame, if a man or woman admits that he or she is unemployed, or whether it is because of the treatment given them at the office at which they would have to register. I hope that it is the  former.  But the fact is that this situation does exist. 
What can be done about the situation? I believe that in this case both groups have a responsibility: The Australians of Greek origin and the other Australians who live in the Territory. I refer first to the Greek-born Australians and those people not yet naturalised. The first obvious step is that they should learn English. We would all agree that that is an obvious step. I put it to them strongly that they should do so. Plenty of facilities and courses are available. There are pan-time courses, full-time courses, tutorials, release from employment and so on. They should take full advantage of those facilities. They certainly should take interpreters with them or should carry a card stating quite clearly 'I cannot speak English; if you cannot understand me I will arrange for an interpreter', or something similar. Many offices have interpreters, but they are not always at the front desk, so perhaps the card should state: 'Would you get me an interpreter?' 
Thirdly, Greek born Australians should continue the work which they have started of involving other Australians in their activities. There is no doubt that much would be done to break down any feeling that might exist if we had more Australian born members of the clubs. I take one excellent example of the Stuart Park parents  group where the  parents of Greek origin have invited the other parents in and given them a night of Greek food, Greek dancing and good harmony. What can we, the other Australians do in this matter? Of course, I include honourable senators and the Government generally. Firstly, we must not generalise on isolated examples. There are good and bad in every community. We had an unfortunate situation after Cyclone Tracy in which a number of Greeks were taking refrigerators and other electrical equipment from Darwin and bringing it south for sale. This occasioned a good deal of reaction against Greeks. But again, I stress that very few Greek people were involved in this. The vast majority of Greeks, like the rest of us, stayed back and hopped in to get Darwin operating again. 
The matter I now raise comes closer to the Minister's responsibility. Surely we can have a mature person on the front desk of Government Offices in this face to face relationship with members of the public. It is unfortunate that so many officers will insist on putting the last appointed junior on the front desk. This person is not trained and not equipped to deal with the problems when people who do not speak the language come into the office. We must have officers there who have some understanding and some appreciation of the difficulties that will arise. If language cards are available, certain messages can be conveyed to the non-english speaking person. Not all people who do not speak English can read Greek, but at least if the cards are ready they will give them a lead. There seems to be a need for training some police officers. I am not suggesting that all officers have fallen into the practice that I described earlier, but if some have done so, let us have training for them. Let us have clear direction from the Police Commissioner himself and make sure that these Officers are trained to overcome this problem. 
The comments I made about government offices apply also to hospitals. Let us have mature people at the desk and let us have some assistance in the form of language cards and the ready availability of interpreters. The Government could reconsider providing funds for the Good Neighbour Council of Australia. I spoke earlier in the Senate about the need to provide funds for the Good Neighbour Council to keep up the good work which it is doing. There is no doubt that a void has been created by the action of the Government in withdrawing funds. 
I do not want to delay the Senate for long. Perhaps I can conclude my remarks by saying that the governments, both Federal and Territory, have a responsibility to investigate the situation and to defuse it before there is any further problem. I call on them to initiate some sort of inquiry in the correct channels. The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has interpreters. Perhaps there is a need to advertise this fact and make them readily available. The Commissioner for Community Relations needs to know about the things that happen. I suggest to any person who feels that he is being discriminated against that he should report the incident concerned. Perhaps the Commissioner himself might take the initiative and investigate the situation. I am concerned that the situation is at tinder point. I do not think anything but immediate action can defuse it and I call on the Government to take this action. I think that with goodwill on both sides we can restore the harmony which has always been a hallmark of the Darwin community. Perhaps the Government departments might set the tone or give the lead in this matter. They have a responsibility to make sure that benefits or services are made available to those people who are eligible. I challenge the Public Service to do just that and to serve all members of the public. I am not claiming that there is discrimination. I simply say that I am concerned and I ask the Minister to consider the position and arrange some investigation. 
On  behalf of  Senator Evans,  I present the following petition from 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the credibility of the Westminster Parliamentary system is weakened by the resignation in protest of Ministers of the Crown without adequate explanation of the reason or reasons for the resignations being given to the electorate and that the situation is further exacerbated by the reappointment of the recently resigned Minister within a very brief period, again without any meaningful explanation to the people of Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, take note of the need for the electorate at large to be fully informed so that the confidence of the people is not diminished in the democratic process in general and the Parliamentary process in particular. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Following the recent visit of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to the Northern Territory, can some indication be given to the Senate of plans that the Government may have to bring radio programs- in the words of the  Speaker  of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly- 'to those 30,000 outback Territorians who presently cannot receive local news or weather or the programs specifically designed for them'? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services read the comments attributed to  Mr Justice  Muirhead when speaking at a symposium in Adelaide? He is reported as saying: 
The Northern Territory today is a sensitive area, geographically exposed and because of its minerals and diverse ethnic groups subject to stress. 

 Mr Justice Muirhead is also reported as seeing a need in the Territory for a special branch of the Commonwealth Police as a counter to terrorism which he sees as a potential threat. Does the Government feel that the judge has assessed the situation in Darwin correctly? If so, what action does it intend to take? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Education by referring to pages 199 and 200 of the Tertiary Education Commission's report of September 1978 which, in reference to technical and further education funding for Victoria for 1 979, said: 
Because Victoria's forward planning has not yet matched its requirements  for new  and replacement accommodation. Council is recommending rather less for capital grants than would be warranted on the basis of need. 
In addition, the Tertiary Education Commission gave the Victorian Government until March of this year to produce a firm program which would incorporate realistic target dates for action to provide new places and overcome deficiencies if Victoria was to receive adequate funding for 1980. I ask the Minister when it is anticipated that the Victorian technical and further education strategy plan will be completely finalised to the point where it is entirely acceptable in all details to the Commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) Has the level of unemployment in the Northern Territory reached alarming proportions. 
Are many of the unemployed young people. 
ls unemployment among young people being associated with teenage crime, as indicated by an article in the  Northern Territory News,  16 February 1979, entitled Mini crime wave". 
What action, apart from current training schemes, is being contemplated by the Government to overcome this serious problem. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
What action does the Federal Government intend to take, following the Minister's discussions during the weekend of 17-18 March 1979 with members ofthe Northern Territory Government, to protect the rights of Aboriginal people and uphold the intent ofthe Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976. both of which have been put in jeopardy by the Northern Territory Government's action in extending the boundaries of Darwin, Katherine, Alice Springs and Borroloola. 
Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly- 

-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: Is it a fact that the Minister, during the recent Liberal Party Conference, stated that he did not consider what we have called boat people' to be illegal immigrants? If this is a fact, will the Minister advise the Senate what is the current definition of 'illegal immigrant' and whether the Minister's statement constitutes an open invitation for Vietnamese refugees to attempt to sail for Darwin rather than go through the official channels? Would it not be reasonable to expect increased numbers of boat people attempting to make the journey? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that representatives from the Aboriginal community at Lake Nash met  Mr Andrew  Young to complain about the alleged oppression by the King Ranch of the people on that station? Was a letter also sent to the  President  of the United States asking him to intervene? Is there an injunction at present restraining the King Ranch personnel from denying access to services on the station? Will the Minister indicate what action is being taken by his Department to protect the interests of the Aboriginal people at present living on Lake Nash and to provide services for those who have moved away as a result of the treatment meted out by the station manager? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, concerns the course for social workers being conducted at the Darwin Community College by a senior lecturer,  Mr John  Tomlinson. I am advised that police have obtained a list of names of the students attending this course and have questioned the students both at home and at the College about the content of the course. I ask the Minister why this investigation has been carried out, and seek his assurance that it will in no way affect the accreditation of the students involved. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Has the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council agreed this month that the Commonwealth must spend more and make advance triennial commitments to achieve the ideals of self-management and to overcome urgent social problems in Aboriginal communities? Does this confirm that, in the Council 's view, funding cuts in real terms over the past three Budgets have disadvantaged Aborigines? Does the Minister support the stated view of all the State Ministers that funding from the Commonwealth is grossly inadequate? 
I take the opportunity in this debate on these Appropriation Bills, to raise a matter which actually is related to appropriations, namely, the appropriation for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to problems associated with the disbanding of the Good Neighbour councils. In particular, I refer to the problems faced by the staff of those councils. Honourable senators might recall that I have raised the matter of the excellent work done by the Good Neighbour Council of the Northern Territory in this chamber before. At the time I said that many of the worthwhile projects which were being carried out by the Good Neighbour Council of the Northern Territory would stop as a result of the implementation of the recommendations contained in the Galbally report. I made the point also that support would not be forthcoming from many of the volunteers who previously had given their support to the Council. 
That has happened. In no sense do I suggest an 'I told you so' attitude; rather, I express my deep concern that the valuable service which was offered is now not available to our new settlers. I take as an example the translation service offered by the Good Neighbour Council. The people who worked so willing before, who gave their services and were paid for them in due course, now are not prepared to do so under the new system which has been suggested by the Government. The upshot of that is that, as I said, a valuable and necessary service is no longer available to our new settlers .in the Northern Territory. 
My concern today relates to two matters concerning the staff of the Good Neighbour Council, namely, long service entitlement and severance pay. I make the point that I have the support of the Council in raising this matter. The Council has been involved in this matter and has expressed its extreme concern that the valuable officers of the Council are being disadvantaged. Let us go back a little in time. When the decision to disband the Good Neighbour councils was taken, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  gave an assurance that special consideration would be given to the staff of those councils. Unfortunately, that assurance, like so many of the other assurances and promises given by the Prime Minister, has not been honoured. 
Let us look first at the long service leave situation. In keeping with the comments made by my leader earlier tonight, I will be brief in this matter and will speak very much in note form because I think the matters will be known to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who is at the table. Commonwealth funding took the councils only to the end of January 1979. Fortunately, the Northern Territory Government, seeing the good work being done by the Northern Territory Good Neighbour Council, funded it to 30 June 1979 to assist with gaps in services until the Galbally resources centre opens in July. The Northern Territory Good Neighbour Council decided to place moneys from the Commonwealth in trust so that it could cover staff entitlements which would accrue to that date. I shall read part of a letter from the  Chairman  of the Working Party of the Good Neighbour councils to the  President  of the Good Neighbour Council of the Northern Territory. When I read this it will be quite obvious to honourable senators that it is written in reply to a letter sent by the  President  of the Good Neighbour Council of the Northern Territory to the  Chairman  of the Working Party. The letter states, in part: 
I note Council 's decision to set aside an amount of $ 1 3,553 in a trust account to cover staff entitlements and that one element of this amount is a figure of $3,864.25 representing pro rata long service leave. From the information we have available, Northern Territory Ordinance No. 67 of 1965 amended by Ordinance No. 52 of 1974 provides an entitlement to long service leave for employees in the Territory only after a period of at least ten years' continuous service. 
The Council believes and certainly I believe that the staff of the Good Neighbour councils can be regarded as staff employees. They can be regarded as government employees. The Council believes that because it has read section 3 1 of the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act, which includes employees of Commonwealth authorities. Obviously the Council has been accepted by the Northern Territory Public Service Board which, in a letter to the 
Council dated 8 January 1979, referred to the staff of the Good Neighbour councils as staff from non-Public Service Act areas of Commonwealth Government employment. 
The Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976 provides for recognition of pro rata service after 12 months service in a redundancy situation. It also provides for portability of service where continuity can be established. In this case we have a situation in which the director of the Good Neighbour Council could claim 1 1 years service to carry over into another position within the Public Service. The three remaining staff members would also be entitled to pro rata long service leave under the Commonwealth Act. None of the staff would receive any benefit whatever under the Northern Territory Ordinance. The Council believes that staff fall into the category of employees in government service and therefore come within the provisions of the Commonwealth Act. It makes this assumption for four reasons. Firstly, the Good Neighbour movement was established by a Minister, the late Arthur Calwell, and is therefore a 'prescribed authority'. We notice from the pamphlet on the Commonwealth Ombudsman, under the heading 'What complaints are considered?' that 'prescribed authorities' is defined as follows: 
 Prescribed authorities ' are bodies or offices established by statute, or by the Governor-General or a Minister, for a public purpose. They can include incorporated companies under Commonwealth control, but not the Courts, or the Legislative Assemblies in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
We know, of course, that councils are funded by the Commonwealth Government and subject to Australian Treasury regulations. From the definition given by the Ombudsman, the fact that the Northern Territory Council is incorporated is not relevant. The councils have a degree of autonomy, but staff ceilings, salaries and conditions are laid down by the co-ordinator who is of course, a member of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in Canberra. The council believes that the foregoing demonstrates a 'controlling interest' by the Commonwealth. If we want to go any further than that we may refer to the definition of 'controlling interest' in the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act 1977. I support the proposition which has been put forward by the Council that the staff are government employees. I call on the Minister to investigate the situation and consider favourably the position of the staff of the Good Neighbour Councils. 
I turn now to the question of severance pay. I am sure that I need not define what is meant by that term. It is well understood by honourable senators. Let me give a little of the history and then come to the point at issue. Following the announcement of the cessation of funding and the unprecedented termination of the Good Neighbour Councils staff superannuation schemehonourable senators will recall that the Commonwealth underwrote contributions equal to those made by employees- the councils individually submitted to the Department in Canberra proposals for severance payments to staff by way of compensation. In February of this year the Department sent a telegram to all councils seeking approval to use $145,000, or 50 per cent of the Good Neighbour Council's 1979-80 allocation, for staff severance payments. Not all of the councils agreed. The Northern Territory council did. However, Western Australia, for example, considered that the money should come from another source. 
The Departmen t, after discussing the matter in Cabinet, has now offered an income maintenance scheme which extends to recipients half of the benefits provided for under Public Service redundancy conditions. The Northern Territory Council is not happy with this and has written a letter making the point and requesting that a clause parallel to clause 10 of the AlburyWodonga Development Special Conditions be inserted. It might be pertinent to read that clause which under the heading 'Severance Payment' provides: 
If, in the opinion of the Public Service Board and the Corporation there is no suitable alternative employment available, the Corporation may pay to an officer or employee, on his last day of duty, in lieu of income maintenance payments, a lump sum payment from the Corporation calculated as an amount equivalent to three months 'salary. 
Without doubt the Council would support this proposition and believe that conditions for serverance should provide some compensation for loss through termination of the superannuation scheme, as well as maintenance of income. In this sort of situation severance pay is surely well and truly accepted. The Federal Government has a clear responsibility to provide for the staff because, after all, as was indicated earlier, it is responsible for the present situation. I believe we have established that the staff should be treated as Commonwealth employees. It does seem a pity that the Government yet again should have taken an across-the-board decision. 
Galbally in his investigations, as was noted in his later report, found problems, with some of the Good Neighbour Councils, but he also found some good things. He found, for example, that the Northern Territory Council was performing most worthwhile functions. Honourable senators who have read his report will recall the complimentary remarks he made concerning the Northern Territory Council, which he saw as a model on which others would be based. But despite this, because some councils had some problems, all had to go. The Government could see no flexibility in the situation and made no attempt to recognise the fact that some councils were performing well and that some staff were doing an excellent job. I claim, and the claim is well supported by the comments of Galbally and of my political opponents in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, that the staff of the Northern Territory Good Neighbour Council have done an excellent job. They went into their employment firmly believing that the Government would look after them. That belief was reinforced by the statement of the Prime Minister, which gave assurances that the staff would be protected, would be given 'special consideration'. 
I now call on the Government to honour its obligations and assurances and protect the staff of the Northern Territory Good Neighbour Council. I am aware that other staff are involved. They, of course, deserve protection, but my case tonight, my plea, is for the Northern Territory staff. I ask the Minister to consider the proposition that the Northern Territory staff be given pro rata long service leave and the severance pay to which they are morally entitled. I ask the Minister to accept the proposition that these people Commonwealth Government employees, and the rest will flow automatically from such an assumption.  (Quorum formed). 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she received a letter from the Darwin Unemployed Workers Union drawing her attention to the shortage of both space and counter staff in the Darwin office of her Department? Did the Minister reply indicating that a part-time receptionist would be appointed? Given the large number of unemployed in Darwin and the volume of traffic at the office, often 80 people at a time, will the Minister not agree that this appointment, while appreciated, will not meet the needs of the situation? Will she take steps to have further investigations made in an attempt to overcome the situation? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Gietzelt.  I had hoped to be able to make some comments on the case made by  Senator Messner.  Unfortunately he made no case which makes it very difficult for me to comment. Let me make one or two brief references to the comments he made, basically on the case put forward by  Senator Gietzelt.  He talked of royalty payments and took a legalistic approach to them, which we are not going to do. We are going to look at them in another way. We make the point that the payments are not made to individuals. They are seen as compensation by the Aboriginal people and by the community at large. I will discuss this fully in my brief comments. 
He mentioned then the work done by  Mr Fitzgerald  who showed that mining companies were not making a reasonable contribution. The fact that there was such an outcry from the mining companies indicates that he had hit a very sore nerve. From  Senator Messner's  approach to the Fitzgerald report, one might believe that it is not beauty which is in the eye of the beholder but justice which is in the eye of the beholder. He put forward a rather interesting argument about a resources tax which I will study at leisure. I state, with respect, it seems to be slightly biased in favour of the group which  Senator Messner  represents. 
Let me remind honourable senators of the wording of the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Gietzelt.  It reads: 
Leave om all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and re-drafted to remove all reference to taxation on mineral royalties for Aboriginal organisations'. 
Hopefully that is what we will be talking about this afternoon. Certainly it is what I am going to address myself to in the brief time at my disposal. The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) seeks to impose a tax on royalties. Its purpose is quite clear and simple. It is to balance the Budget- to attempt to find some money from somewhere to assist in the problems which the Government is facing at present. Unfortunately, as so often seems to be the case, the Aborigines are fair game here. They are the group that perhaps can be got at most easily. Up until now, there has been no tax on royalties and it is reasonable to assume- as was pointed out earlier- that the negotiations which were held between the Aboriginal communities and the various mining companies did not envisage that taxation would be paid on the royalties. One could assume that the Aboriginal communities would have perhaps put their case a little higher if they thought that this was going to be so. 
What are royalties? Both  Senator Watson  and  Senator Messner  have discussed this matter. The point has been put strongly both by my colleagues here and in the other place that this is a compensation to Aboriginal people. The whole matter seems to hinge on this. 
-Could the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs just hear me out on this? This point has been put. There has been a legalistic representation that it is not so. 
-Perhaps we could consider this thought and then come back to what the Minister said. Mining involves a change of life for the Aboriginal people. There is no doubt that it disrupts. There has been a disruption of their life style. It brings social problems with it. It offends the Aboriginals in regard to their land. I am certainly not going to carry through the argument that I have put many times in this place about the relationship of the Aboriginal people to the land. These problems have been enumerated before; I do not have to go through them. We feel, as was said earlier, that there is a moral obligation here to provide some compensation for this disruption. My learned legal colleagues have told me that compensation payments are not taxed.  Senator Gietzelt's  argument on this count has been discounted by  Senator Messner  and no doubt the Minister will have some comment to make on that. I understand that if one loses an arm and certain compensation is paid for this, the amount of money - 
-That is right. The weekly payments are taxed, but the lump sum, which is the compensation, is not taxed. I will read a comment from the Northern Territory News as to whether Aboriginal people regard the payments they are to get as compensation. The article stated in part: 
The Northern Land Council chairman believes the new Federal tax on Aboriginal mining royalties sets a precedent Tor taxation on compensation payments. 

 Mr Galarrwuy Yunupingu said he wonders why Aborigines are the first people to have their compensation payments taxed. 
No doubt there will be some criticism of that in a legalistic way. Nevertheless, I put it forward only as the point of view of the Aboriginal people that this is being offered by way of compensation. Some suggestion will be made that perhaps the Aboriginal people have brought all this upon themselves- that they need not have had mining and that they could have rejected the proposition. Some people have suggested that by allowing mining on their land the Aboriginal people, as I said before, have brought the situation on themselves. Some people have suggested that they could have said, 'No, we will not have mining', and that there would be no problem. It was said that their rights are protected by the land rights legislation. This is the sort of argument advanced by some people in the community. Certainly, the land rights legislation did not apply in the time of the Nabalco and Gemco negotiations. One wonders whether anyone honestly believes that it has applied since. 
I remind honourable senators of the pressure that was put on Galarrwuy Yunupingu by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister. We have seen in the newspapers graphic reports of the sorts of pressures that were put on this young man at the time of the signing. It was suggested that the Prime Minister suggested the withdrawal of support for the land councils. There was a suggestion that the Prime Minister threatened that there would be no further assistance to Aboriginal people. There was a suggestion that everything that had been gained would be taken away. I am not saying that this is so. I am saying that these were the sorts of suggestions that were made, simply to illustrate that people believed that pressures were put upon them. 
Certainly I know from my experience that the expectations which have been raised in the Aboriginal people by exposure to European culture have put certain pressures on them. The very education of the Aboriginal people has brought about certain expectations and raised in them the desire for material things. Quite clearly from this exposure the idea has come to them that all material things- such wonderful things as transistor radios, four-wheel drive vehicles, boats and so on- can be attained and that one attains them by money. By saying this I am not being simplistic. It seems to me that that sort of expectation has come up and that the situation that has been created- I am not critical of it because it was inevitable- has put pressures on Aboriginal people to say: 'We need money to achieve in a society which has come to us'. I make the point that the Aboriginal never really had a choice as to whether mining should proceed. Why should royalties be paid? I remind honourable senators of a motion which was put and passed in this place in February 1975. It stated: 
That the Senate accepts the Tact that the indigenous people of Australia, now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, were in possession of this entire nation prior to the 1788 First Fleet landing at Botany Bay, urges the Australian Government to admit prior ownership by the said indigenous people, and introduce legislation to compensate the people now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders for dispossession of their land. 
This motion was passed unanimously by the Senate in 1975. 
-The honourable senator was here at the time; I was not. He would know that it was moved by  Senator Bonner.  He would know that without asking.  Senator Bonner  will remind us also. 
How are the royalties distributed? Forty per cent of the royalties go to the land councils. This money is spent on preparing claims for presentation to the Land Rights Commissioner. Those who have seen the activities of lawyers and of those who must prepare these submissions will know that it is a very expensive operation. A good deal of money is necessary to enable the Northern Land Council, the Central Land Council and now the Bathurst Island Land Council to prepare their cases for presentation to the Land Rights Commissioner. Also, of course, some of the money is spent in assisting various communities. 
We notice from a document which was presented today, and from the speech that has been made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, that the money that is going to the land councils at present is not sufficient. Thirty per cent of the royalties go to the traditional owners. Again, I make the point that it goes not to individuals but to incorporated bodies and is spent on community activities, on a wide range of enterprises, on activities to assist people set themselves up in business and other entrepreneurial enterprises, the construction of buildings, houses and so on. Thirty per cent of the royalties go to the Aboriginal Benefit Fund- the old Aboriginal Benefit Trust Fund- to be spent on projects throughout the Territory. A decision on how the money is to be spent is, of course, made by the Aboriginal people. 
I move from the question of the percentages of royalties paid to that of where the money is to be spent. This is a particularly important point. The bulk will be spent in the Northern Territory. Aboriginal people tend not to save, for the simple reason that normally they do not have all the things that they require. Therefore, they tend to spend money as soon as they get it. It goes to the commercial and other business houses in the Northern Territory. I do not have to explain to the learned gentlemen on the other side of the chamber the multiplier effect when that money is spent in the community. That is why I am surprised that the Northern Territory Government went ahead and blackmailed the Federal Government into allowing royalty payments to be made to it as well. The Northern Territory Government got the cut to which it thought it was entitled, but I should have thought that it would be far more important to have the money flowing into the community and achieving the stimulation of the economy that is so important. 
What is the amount of the royalties? In percentage terms, compared to what is paid in other places, it is pitiful. It is  Vh  per cent to 4 1/2 per cent, which is not a great amount. No doubt, comment will be made about the additional that Zorn included for protection of the environment, which brings the 4Vi per cent to a higher level; but, compared with the 1 5 per cent royalty that is paid to Indians in the United States and the royalty that is paid by the Bougainville copper mine in Papua New Guinea, it is certainly a pitiful amount. I repeat that when the royalties were negotiated there was no thought of taxation. 
Last night we heard from a supporter of the Government a speech on the ability of the Aboriginal people to handle their own affairs. It was suggested that we should be rather careful about giving money to people who, in the words of the  speaker,  cannot handle it. I reject that proposition completely. I do not think that anyone who has watched the Aboriginal councils preparing their budgets, planning their programs and discussing what they will do with their money for the year would make that sort of comment. Certainly, the Aborigines need help but I cannot think of any shire council, roads board or corporation that does not require help in the planning of its budgets and the allocation of its money. We always see an accountant, or someone of the sort, brought in to assist. We certainly accept the proposition that the white people can help. In this place many times I have made the point that Aboriginal people would be well advised to make use of the sort of support that is available from those Europeans who wish to make a contribution- in the right sense, obviously. 
Aboriginal people have to be particularly careful about whom they select to do their work for them. Those of us who can look back over 20 years of Aboriginal affairs activity throughout Australia know that the greatest problem faced by Ministers in governments of either persuasion has been that of finding the right sort of people to put not only in departments but more importantly- and I stress the point- in face to face situations in the settlements as they were known, or the communities as they are known at present. I am concerned that the view to which I have just referred might also be that of the Government. I do not think that it is and I hope that I will be assured by the Minister that it is not; that the Government will not use that sort of attitude as an excuse for cutting back on any sort of allocation that is made to Aboriginal communities and organisations. 
On Tuesday, in answer to a question that I asked, the Minister conceded that the State Ministers had agreed that the Commonwealth Government should provide more money for Aboriginal advancement in the individual States. I rather thought that the Minister had said he also agreed that the Commonwealth Government should give more, but, upon reading  Hansard,  the comment that I thought was on the end of his speech was not recorded, so obviously he did not make it and I must have imagined him saying it. Nevertheless, I think that he does appreciate the situation because he has said that he has listened with interest to the views that have been put forward by State Ministers and will be taking them to Cabinet. I emphasise that assistance does not mean only the provision of money. The Aboriginal people need a great deal of support. I will not bore the Senate by elaborating the point. 
It has been suggested that the amount paid in royalties should be deducted from the funds made available by the Federal Government to Aboriginal people. This was advanced in the other place as one of the suggestions that had been made by Turnbull; that eventually the royalties would be sufficient to ensure that no money from the taxpayers need be spent on Aboriginal communities for education, health, welfare and so on. I would simply ask: Is this done in European society? No doubt my colleague,  Senator Cavanagh,  will dwell upon that. It is not an area that 1 know a lot about, but I would have thought when compensation was paid for the loss of an arm or a leg we would not normally stop the salary of the recipient. 
One must concede- as certainly we on this side do- that Aborigines have suffered as a result of the intrusion of the white people. The Aborigines did own the land before the white people came and they accept the proposition that there is need for compensation. I remind the Senate of the proposition that was put forward by  Senator Bonner  and adopted in this place in February 1975. We on this side of the chamber make the point that the Aborigines are entitled to compensation for the problems that have been caused by mining and for the social problems they have suffered, upon which I need not elaborate. Moreover, we propose that such compensation should not be taxed. 
The Government has problems. Obviously it needs to find money with which to balance its Budget. Perhaps it could look elsewhere in that regard, and I make a plea that it do so. There has been no shortage of suggestions. They have come from all groups. One from the Australian Teachers Federation arrived here only this week. In part, it reads: 
In this connection we do no more than draw attention to the sum of $955m which constitutes revenue foregone by the Government in tax concessions and bounties to businesses in 1977-78. Since business profitability is at record high levels and taxation paid by business has declined significantly in recent years the Government should look to this area of revenue in keeping its budget deficit in check. The tax con cessions and bounties referred to are: 

<graphic href="081232197905246_56_2.jpg"></graphic>

What a pity  Senator McLaren  is not here. The submission continues: 

<graphic href="081232197905246_56_3.jpg"></graphic>

We are talking here about real money, not just the small amounts that could be gained by taking back this admittedly small sum from the Aboriginal people. The credibility of the Government will suffer far more as a result of this action. The acceptance of the Government by the Aboriginal people, which over the last three or four years has fluctuated, will again be in danger. I urge all honourable senators who have any sympathy with the Aboriginal cause, who suggest that they are liberals with a small '1' to give support to the amendment that has been proposed by my colleague,  Senator Gietzelt. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Have field officers from her Department been asked to carry out an investigation of the unemployed in the Northern Territory? If so, does this investigation include a questionnaire to be administered to neighbours? Has a special unit been set up to process the findings and, if so, has extra staff been employed to do that job? If an investigation is being carried out, how many people have had their benefits removed as a result of it? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Has the Department of Health produced a report entitled An Environmental Survey of Aboriginal Communities 1977-78'? If so, when and where will this report be tabled? If it is not to be tabled in this chamber, will the Minister arrange for copies to be made available to all honourable senators, and an opportunity provided to debate the important matters covered by the report? 
I have been tempted to enter this debate because I have a particular interest in these matters. The boat people arrive in Australia at Darwin, my home town, so obviously I have an interest. I have been down to the harbour many times, as others have, to talk to the people as they come in. In addition, I wish to refer to a matter that  Senator Georges  raised and which is very dear to my heart, namely, the plight of the Timorese refugees who, under the present situation, do not appear to be getting much help. There are also many Asians in Darwin who would like to bring their families to Australia. Over the last 12 months there seems to have been a tightening of the situation. Whilst I am tempted to enter into that debate, I will not do so. 
I want to discuss another matter and ask a couple of questions about an associated areathat of health- which is closer to the portfolio of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  I refer to the quarantine situation in relation to the boat people. The Minister will know that there are many Vietnamese boats in the Darwin harbour at the present time. These are basically wooden vessels. In some cases they are moored and in other cases they are beached. They are certainly not attractive and they are costing the Australian taxpayer a lot of money. There are a number of questions I want to ask about these Vietnamese boats in the Darwin harbour. Firstly 1 would like to have some indication of the cost of the continual spraying of these vessels. I understand that the six-inch planks of which some of them are made up have to be sprayed every three months with methyl bromide or some other appropriate disinfectant. It is a continual ongoing process. It must be expensive. Can we have some indication of what it is costing the Australian taxpayer? I do not ask the following question facetiously, although I do not think that the Minister can be of as much help in relation to it. How much of this money can be recouped from the owners of these vessels, the Vietnamese people? Could this cost be passed back to the Vietnamese Government? It is the body which claims ownership of these boats. Can this cost be recouped from the Vietnamese Government? 
The next question is a fairly obvious one. What action can be taken to destroy these boats? Their ownership does not appear to be in doubt. The Vietnamese Government says they belong to it. Can action be taken to destroy the boats? If so, why has this action not been taken? Many of them have been there for quite some time. I understand that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will not allow the boats to be sold because he feels that such sale would affect the boat builders in Australia. I make the point to the Minister that we do not have many boat builders in Darwin. Not many people there produce small craft. Is this matter worth looking at? Is it realistic to leave the boats there when people want to buy them? I am not trying to attack the local industry. If there is an industry there, by all means protect it. But if we have no industry, why not let the boats be sold rather than be a continual burden on the Australian taxpayer? I just put those two very simple questions. The ongoing expenses do not appear to be justified. What can be done about them, and can some action be taken either to shoot back the responsibility for the boats to the Vietnamese Government or to make arrangements for their destruction? 
I move to the area of housing and construction and refer to the staff of the Department of Housing and Construction at Alice Springs. At the Estimates Committee hearings we were told that some members of the staff would be retained. I ask the following questions: How many will be retained and what will be the functions of these officers? In other words, what sort of officers will be retained in Alice Springs? What responsibilities will these officers have as they work in Alice Springs? Will they be responsible for advising Aboriginal communities and housing associations on housing and services? By 'services', I mean electricity, sewerage, water services and so on. Will the construction group at Alice Springs replace the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Housing Panel? We were told at the Estimates committees that the Department of Housing and Construction had accepted responsibility for the work previously done by the Panel. Honourable senators will recall that I spoke at some length on the wonderful work done by the Housing Panel and regretted its passing. What responsibility will the Northern Territory Government have in the area of Aboriginal housing and services? What relationship will exist between the Federal Government and the Territory government in this area? 
I shall speak briefly in this debate, not only because time is running out but also because two previous speakers to whom  Senator MacGibbon  referred, are both articulate and experienced and have covered most of the arguments. However, there are one or two extra points that I would like to add to the comments made by my colleagues. I support what  Senator Bishop  has said tonight, as I have previously. But while he stressed the importance of the road to South Australia I will deal with its importance to the Northern Territory because it is a vital link to the Northern Territory. This point has been made by  Senator McLaren  who has always been a friend to the Northern Territory. I do not think that there is any need to recapitulate on the need for a road. This has been done well, not only tonight but in previous debates. 
The question must then be asked: Whose responsibility is it to find the funds to do this job for which we have recognised the need. Having listened to the speakers in the debate tonight, it seems that there is no disagreement on whose responsibility it is. We have agreed that it is a national road. We all know that it is part of a national network and that the aim of the national network is to link the capitals of Australia. This will link Darwin with Alice Springs which is already connected by road to Darwin. It is the last link in the chain to connect capital cities around Australia. If it is a national road it is clearly the responsibility of the Federal Government. This has been accepted over the years. When the delegation to which two other honourable senators have referred met with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  he put the argument that Western Australia was looking for money to push extra roads further north. He said that Queensland was looking for money to do this also. While we accept that these propositions have been put forward we submit that the Minister missed the point entirely. The road in Western Australia going north or the road in Queensland going north will not assist in linking the capital cities. Certainly, the road in Western Australia, if it followed the correct path, could eventually get to Darwin. But it would not link in the same way because the link between Alice Springs and southern roads would be broken. 
One could speak on the developmental needs and the defence needs and point out that this road is absolutely essential. But as I have said, I do not think there is any need to recapitulate on this matter. We need only return to the question that was asked originally: Who is responsible? It is clear that the national Government- the Federal Government- has the responsibility for this. Some comments have been made about the statements by  Mr Sinclair  when he was in Alice Springs. He said quite clearly that he saw it as a Federal Government responsibility.  Mr Sinclair  went further than this. As well as being a Federal Government responsibility, he actually promised that the Government would commit funds to do this. Recently the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  made a statement that South Australia should give more of its money, and do more. This is the same sort of argument he put to the delegation. What absolute rubbish this is. South Australia has four national highways to worry about. If it made an allocation for the construction of roads leading to the Northern Territory it would take 30, 40 or 50 years to obtain the required amount. It has to worry about the Princess Highway, the Stuart Highway and the Eyre Highway. The pressure is on South Australia to do this. The need for ongoing funds for this project from the Federal Government is clear. 

 Senator Jessop made some extraordinary statements in what I thought was a fairly hysterical outburst. He agreed that it is a national highway but he supported the proposition that  Senator Bishop  put forward in a strange way. He walked out on the vote. This is the strangest sort of support that I have ever seen. I would have thought that if anyone wanted to support something he would vote for it. The honourable senator then made the statement:  'Mr Whitlam  said that he would provide, and what did he do?' Again, complete histrionics. Whitlam had three years in which to do something during which time the then Opposition took him to the polls twice. If we add up the time that the present Government has had and the time its LiberalCountry Party predecessor had, the coalition parties have had 27  (h  years to do it, and they have done nothing. So what nonsense it is to ask: What did Whitlam do in three years?' 
Consideration interrupted. 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
I take the opportunity on this first reading of a money Bill to discuss the situation at Lake Nash station and the problems faced by the Aboriginals in that area, and who have belonged to that area and have moved away. In doing so, I will put some questions to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  on the issue. I will give a little background. Lake Nash station is situated about 500 miles north east of Alice Springs, a few miles from the QueenslandNorthern Territory border. It is the eleventh largest station in the Northern Territory, occupying 8,547 square kilometres. It is owned, through its subsidiaries, by King Ranch of Texas, United States of America. There are two Australian subsidiaries, and they own the Lake Nash station. The population is approximately 25 Europeans- it varies- and 120 to 200 Aboriginals. The representative of King Ranch is a  Mr Bassingthwaite,  who is the  chairman  of Swift Australia Pty Ltd. 
I wish to give some indication of the attitude of Swift-King Ranch to the Aboriginals. I am afraid it is not a sympathetic one, as honourable senators will find as I proceed. In 1974,  Mr Bassingthwaite  's comments and policies provoked a good deal of criticism. Some of this criticism came from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, through the director of the southern region, a  Mr Creed  Lovegrove. He was highly critical of the attitude of the people at Lake Nash and he accused the Swift company of wanting to remove 'all Aborigines not actually working on the property, or their immediate families'. He went on to say that this son of behaviour was not in line with the covenants of the lease. He also accused the company of blocking progress towards a sub-lease. The sub-lease which had been sought was for a small area of land on the station which could be used by the Aboriginals as their headquarters, as their home land. This is quite a common practice. A piece of land is either leased or excised, if that is possible under the laws of the country.  Senator Cavanagh,  who was the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs at the time, saw the conditions at Lake Nash. He described them as appalling and degrading. 
A reporter from the  Sunday Mail,  a  Mr Kim  Lockwood- who is well known to Territorians because of his famous father, Douglas Lockwood- saw the living conditions and he said that they were akin to drought-ravaged Ethiopia or cyclone-battered Bangladesh. In reply,  Mr Bassingthwaite  glossed over the complaints and claimed that he was 'paying over award wages, making a substantial contribution to the costs of a nurse, clinic and school and providing a well stock non-profit store'. This claim was reported in the  Sunday Mail  of 1 1 August 1 974.I think I ought to explain that this largesse needs some sort of qualification, as most of the services to which he referred are paid for by the Government. The management was paid a substantial subsidy to do the sort of work to which  Mr Bassingthwaite  referred. Many honourable senators would know that subsidies were paid to stations for education, if education was not provided by the Department, for health care and for messing. 
I am just explaining the situation. It is a fact, of course, that in some cases this was not done. The point should be made that in many cases it was done. Many of the station owners did a very good job for the Aboriginal people and spent their subsidies wisely. Of course, as  Senator Coleman  suggests, there were a number who did not do that. Apparently, that was the case at Lake Nash.  Mr Bassingthwaite  did not grant the sub-lease that was required by the covenant and referred to by  Mr Lovegrove  of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. He did not allow a water supply to be installed for the Aboriginal people. Perhaps, rather than use the word 'allow', I should use the word permit', because it was to cost the station nothing. The work was to be done by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, but it required the permission of the management of Lake Nash station before the water supply could be put in. For some extraordinary reason,  Mr Bassingthwaite  denied this permission. 
At the beginning of this year he appointed a new manager, a  Mr Perce  Crumblin.  Mr Crumblin  had worked in the Northern Territory for some time and he took up his duties at Lake Nash station earlier this year. Shortly after he took up his duties he sacked the sister who was providing the health care. She was the subsidisd sister to whom 1 referred earlier. He also sacked her husband, who was the storekeeper. Naturally, because of this action, there were rumours that the store was to close. The District Medical Officer and the officer from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, who heard of this rumour, went out to Lake Nash and had some discussions with the management. In the course of those discussions the manager said that he had certain reservations about the Aboriginal people. He said, firstly, that he did want to employ Aboriginal people; secondly, that, he wanted nothing to do with health care; and thirdly, that he was considering closing down the store to force them to move. 
That point obviously needs some explanation. I gave a little information earlier when I said that the station is 500 miles north-east of Alice Springs and that it is close to the Northern Territory-Queensland border. It is fairly obvious that, with a station the size of this one- about the size of Cyprus- if the store were somewhere in the middle there would be an awfully long way to travel to get to the next store. So the prospect of closing down the store was highly relevant. The manager gave reasons for his attitude towards the Aboriginal people. He said that they leave the gates open. Anyone who has worked with Aboriginal people or who was raised on stations knows that this would be highly unlikely. Those of us who were raised on stations or on farms know that we develop certain attitudes towards leaving gates open. I think it is highly unlikely that they would do that. Nevertheless, that was the first reason that he gave. The second reason that he gave for having these problems with the Aboriginal people was that they are unreliable employees. Again, people who know the Northern Territory know that this is not the case. Aboriginal people have a justified, well earned reputation as stockmen. The point has to be made also that other stations around Lake Nash which employed Aboriginal people found them to be as I have just said, excellent stockmen and reliable workers. 
The third reason he gave was that the Aboriginals have too many dogs, which kill the station animals. That could be a fact. It could be a fact that there were 'too many dogs'. There are some reservations about whether they would attack the station animals. Most places in that area of the Northern Territory have too many dogs. It has to be understood that the Aboriginal people who work in that area have an affinity with the dog totem. As some honourable senators would know and certainly as  Senator Bonner  has said on other occasions, it would not be possible for them to shoot a dog or to see a dog shot. But, certainly, if there had been some discussion on the matter, they could have said: 'If you can take the dogs from our sight, shoot them and then dispose of them, it will not worry us. But we cannot do it ourselves'. I will return a little later to the matter of this lack of communication. 
The fourth point that  Mr Crumblin  made was that the Aboriginals caused a disturbance when drunk. I will answer these criticisms later. 
-Yes. As  Senator Coleman  interjects, who does not create a disturbance when drunk? On 29 March- I want to list these events in chronological order- the manager posted a notice to say that the store was closed and that it would not be available to the Aboriginal people living in the area. What was the result of that action? Firstly, there was no food or other supplies. I have already made the point that obviously there was not another store just around the corner. There would be nothing there, except the natural food that could be caught by the Aboriginal people. Obviously, they are a group of people who, having been brought up on stations, would be dependent upon that sort of food for their living. There was no petrol to be bought. The nearest place where one could get petrol is some kilometres away. Obviously, it was incredible that the man should cut off their one contact with Camooweal, with Ammaroo or with any other spot. 
The next thing was that no mail was to be delivered. In other words, no social security cheques could be collected. That relates to the petrol situation. If the Aboriginals could get their social security cheques but could not cash them at the station they could not get the petrol to go to Camooweal or somewhere else to cash them. So, the fact that no cheques were to be cashed was the end result. An officer from the DAA went out to Lake Nash to find out not whether the people wanted to move, but where the people wanted to move to. The question put to them was: 'Do you want to move to Ammaroo or do you want to move to Camooweal?' 
It is not my practice to criticise the officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I have never done that and 1 want to avoid it whenever I can. But it seems to me that in this case the officer, for some reason or other, was not looking after the interests of the Aboriginal people, but rather accepted the fact that the management had said: 'I want these people moved'. So the officer from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs was going to say: 'All right; you have to go. Where do you want to go to?' Fortunately, the Aboriginal people have friends who were able to help them. In this case the two friends who were able to help were the Reverend Jim Downing from the Intitute for Aboriginal Development at Alice Springs and Professor Colin Tatz. They encouraged the people of Lake Nash to approach the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress to give them assistance in seeking an injunction to restrain the manager from closing the store. This move was successful. I have before me the court document; but, obviously, it is too long to read. Perhaps I could read a summary which was printed in the  Australian  and which will explain the situation. It reads: 
They are restrained from preventing the Aboriginals exercising their legal rights under the Crown Land Ordinance, namely that within 2 kilometres of the homestead they have a right to bc on the land, to use natural water, to take or kill natural animals and vegetation, and to use educational, medical and similar facilities. 
I read that into the record because it has some relevance to what I will say later. An appeal was made by the Lake Nash people- I have referred to it previously in this place- to the United States  President.  An appeal was also made to the roving Ambassador, Andrew Young. 
At about this time a group visited Lake Nash and spoke to the Aboriginal people. That was on 25 April. The group comprised Irwin Chlanda and David Richards from the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the  Centralian Advocate,  Professor Colin Tatz, Margaret Mary Turner and the Reverend Jim Downing. I wish to read some of the questions that were asked and answers that were given in that meeting. In relation to the matter of communication between the manager and the Aboriginal people, the question was; 
Has he talked to you about those troubles? 
The answers were, from Frank Toby: 
No, this man never talked to us. 
From Tommy Turner: 
Why does he do that? Why does he tell those lies? He just talks behind people's backs. 
In relation to the dogs, the following question was put: 
He complains that the dogs chase the cattle away from water and worry them all the time. He said he can't break in horses in the yard because of the dogs. What do you say about that? 
Tommy replied: 
I used to break in horses all the time in that yard and the dogs never worried them. He's just telling lies. 
Frank said: 
The bullocks water around that way, not near the camp at all. The dogs go to water close to here. They don't chase those bullocks away. He just made up that story when he came here. Why did he do that? When we worked for Alan Peters we never saw that Percy Crumblin. How did he get all those stories? He might be dreaming. 
Tommy said: 
Only once the dogs ran at the bullocks when they drove them right past our camp. Any dogs will do that if they arc driven right past. They never drove cattle near dogs before. 
On the matter of the gates and fences the document states: 
Q.-  'Mr Crumblin  says you leave gates open and cut fences. Is that true?' Frank Toby said with disgust. 'No. We've never cut fences, and we shut the gates. We know cattle work from a long time ago, before that bloke. We think about cattle. We understand all that. We're not stupid'. 
In regard to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs the document states: 
Q.- Does the D.A.A. man from Tennant Creek help you? The people said that he didn't help them and he probably listened too hard to the manager. 
Frank Toby, 'He took away our engine for the water. He didn't tell us he was going to do that. He didn't ask. He just said, "You fellows had better shift away from here". He just listens too much to the manager'. 
Q.- 'When he comes, does he sit down and have meetings with you '. 
Frank, 'He has only come 2 times. When we had a big meeting with Alice Springs, Utopia health people, D.A.A., and Mt Isa Legal Aid, he just sat down and didn't say anything. That Congress bloke - 
Referring to the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress- 
. knew more about it than he did, so he didn't say anything. 
In answer to a question on 9 May this year the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs expressed concern. In part of his answer when talking about the situation at Lake Nash he said: lt is obviously a matter of great concern that the Aboriginal community is having the difficulties that it is experiencing on that station. 

 Mr Ian Tuxworth, the Northern Territory Minister for Health and Community Development, has convened a conference at Lake Nash on 19 May to discuss the situation. 
I would like to read a newspaper report of that meeting which comes from the  Australian  on 22 May 1979, which reads: 
There was, said  Mr Tuxworth,  a communication problem between the management and the Aborigines, especially as  Mr Crumblin  had never visited the camp since his appointment in January, and since neither  Mr Crumblin  nor  Mr Bassingthwaighte  had seen fit to attend this 'all-party' conference. 
The management, said  Mr Tuxworth,  was upset at adverse publicity, but had many allegations about the Aborigines' behaviour, their work attitudes and their dogs. 
Through a translator and the legal advisers, the Aborigines repudiated all these allegations. As  Mr Crumblin  had never employed them, they said, how could he comment on the quality of their labour? 
The short-term but vital question concerned access to the store and food. The Northern Territory Government promised to provide the cash tomorrow so cheques could be cashed and food bought. 
The meeting ended on that small but important note of understanding. 
I want to go through a number of questions which I think we have to ask in the short term. I refer to the meeting and ask questions about the meeting. Question 1: Were the Aboriginal people officially informed about it and if so by whom? It is not good enough to arrive at a station and simply hope that people will be there. There must be sufficient warning so that the people can be there and take part in the meeting. Question 2: Was there anyone present to report to the Federal Parliament? If so, who? It is quite obvious that we cannot abdicate our responsibility here. We have a problem and we ought to know what is going on. Question 3: Who arranged for the interpreter mentioned and was he or she experienced at interpreting? I make the point strongly that it is not sufficient simply to have somebody who speaks the language and speaks some English as well. We need someone who is experienced in interpreting. Question 4: Is it correct as reported on 22 May this year that the management will allow Aboriginal people to purchase food with Social Security cheques and also, of course to cash those cheques? Question 5: Is petrol available at the store at present? I do not think it is necessary to emphasise the need for this. Question 6: What legal, financial and welfare responsibilities does the Northern Territory Government have in the administration of Aboriginal affairs in the Northern Territory? It is most important that we know that. It is most important that the Aboriginal people know that, and I think it is also just as important that the Northern Territory Government know. Question 7: What role will the Federal Government have in the matter of Aboriginal affairs in the Northern Territory? Question 8: What liaison is there between the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Territory Minister who has responsibility for Aboriginal affairs? I am not referring to the clashes that they might have had in the past over roads, the Kakadu National Park, uranium and several other matters. I am talking about the general overall relationship they have. Question 9: What is the role of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs officers in the Northern Territory? Finally, question 10: What are the qualifications of these officers? What special training do they have for this important, difficult and sensitive job? 
In the few minutes left I want to look at the long term situation. I think we have to make these points very strongly. Firstly, the Aboriginal people have been forced off their land by a foreign company. What are we doing about it? What is this Government doing about it? We have a situation where people who were born in this area, grew up in this area, believe they belong to this area and are recognised as belonging to this area, are being forced off their land by a foreign company which sees them as a nuisance. The Aboriginal people have been denied a small area for a village. The Gibb Committee did not contribute a great deal, but certainly it brought down a statement and said that there should be a small area on every station set aside for a village. What is the Government doing about it? What has the Government done about it in the last 15 years since the Gibb report? The Aboriginal people are being treated as third, even fourth class citizens by foreign companies. What is the Government doing about it? The company is virtually thumbing its nose at lease covenants, the laws of our land. What are we doing about it? I have already quoted what the laws of the covenants are and what the lease laws are. What are we doing about this? 
Aboriginal people have been forced to go outside Australia to seek satisfaction for themselves. I related how people had sent a letter to the United States  President  and to the United Nations. What an indictment of this Government and of us as a people that people in Australia where we are supposed to have an enlightened attitude towards Aboriginal people, are forced to go outside Australia to try to achieve some satisfaction. I think there is a clear need to clarify the role of both the Northern Territory and Federal Governments- especially the Federal Government- and a need to clarify the relationship between the two Governments. A need exists to make clear guidelines on what responsibilities there are in both areas. It is quite clear that the 1967 referendum gave us some very clear responsibilities. I put the questions: Are we accepting these responsibilities? Are we doing the right thing? One has to say that Lake Nash is just one example. I wonder whether there are any others. 
I call on the Minister to make a firm stand in this matter, to accept fully the responsibilities which the Federal Government had and has been given. I ask him to investigate the role played by his Department in this particular case and to clarify the role to be played by his Department in the future, should we have a situation such as this develop again. Surely our original settlers have more rights than to be kicked off their land by foreign companies. If foreign owned companies are to operate in Australia I maintain that they should do so under our conditions. One of these conditions would be that they show full respect for our citizens, particularly our indigenous people, the Aboriginal citizens. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
1 ) Did a commercial channel buy the television rights for coverage of the Rugby League series in which Australia is playing test matches against Great Britain and France. 
Did this Channel offer the series to the Australian Broadcasting Commission for televising in areas not covered by the commercial channel. 
Did the Australian Broadcasting Commission refuse to take up this offer: if so, will the Minister ask the Australian Broadcasting Commission to re-consider its decision, so that rugby fans in the Northern Territory will not be denied the opportunity of seeing the Australian team in action in this most important series. 
I rise in this debate to support the comments which were made earlier by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and which will be made by those Opposition senators who will follow. We are not opposing these Bills but there are some comments that need to be made. Before I move into my prepared remarks perhaps I could comment on a few of the remarks that  Senator Puplick  made in his contribution. Early in his speech he looked at the need for some sort of control of education, as he called it, by the Federal Government because of the funding that has been provided by the Federal Government. I remind  Senator Puplick  and the Senate that the Federal Government provides only about 6 per cent of the total expenditure in any State and that, therefore, one could not expect a great deal of control. Nevertheless, I support his proposition that there should be some role for the Federal Government, and I am going to make a few comments about that in the course of my remarks. 
He remarked also that the Karmel targets had been met, ahead of time in some cases. I think that we need to look at a definition of the word target' because the Australian Teachers Federation suggests that, whilst some pans of the target have been met, the general configuration of the Karmel targets have not been met. But I do not think that this is the time for such a debate. I foreshadow that in later debates on the Karmel targets we will mention this. If they have been met- and I put the point that probably they have not been met- then we on the federal scene must not take all the credit. We must remember that the actions of the States have contributed a great deal. I shall have something to say about that also. 

 Senator Puplick mentioned that he had read through the report of the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training and that he supported many of the contentions in it. We have listened to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  who has said that the more he reads Williams the more he finds in it and the more lead it gives him. As I understand the Williams report, one of its aspects is that it ties funding to the formula principle. It does not have the same concept of needs, of innovation and so on, that we saw in the Karmel report, and I certainly hope that the Government does not follow this sort of lead. I hope, despite what  Senator Puplick  has said, that in future we will see some innovation, some provision made for disadvantaged schools and so on; that we will not be simply tied to the retrograde step of complete formula funding. 

 Senator Puplick also mentioned the funding of non-government business colleges under the Bills and hailed this as representing some sort of innovation. I seem to recall that the matter was discussed when the Labor Party was in government, so it is not completely innovative. It was certainly considered by the Labor Party and if it was not introduced it certainly would have been but for the activities of II November 1975. Nevertheless, one gives praise for the fact that this is being done and one supports this sort of proposition. 
I was pleased to hear  Senator Puplick  mention bicultural education. This legislation does not exactly provide for that. In fact, the honourable senator criticised it for not doing so. I remind him that the innovations program of the former Labor Government would have catered for this sort of thing, in order to give the States a lead, shall we say, and to show them the way.  Senator Puplick  suggested that the States should shoulder the responsibility for bicultural education. One wonders whether that sort of concept should be supported and whether this is not an area that might attract some funding from the Federal Government. Because of the feelings of  Senator Puplick  in regard to this matter, I hope he will press the Government to look at additional funding in this area. 
He mentioned the Galbally report and some of the actions which have followed it. I remind the Senate that the Government withdrew support from those excellent schemes that were operating overseas and on board ship, for migrants. There is certainly a need for migrants to be given some assistance, and the point has been made many times- I have done so myself in this place- that the guidance, instruction and education could be given, or could at least start, in the originating countries and on board ship. It seems a pity that this report does not suggest the reinstitution of that proposition.  Senator Puplick  moved then to talk about life-long education and, in one of his quotations, said that education was for life, not for work. This leads into the comments that I have to make on the subject, so I shall move on without commenting on his final discussion. 
It is, I believe, generally accepted that education is a life-long process. It is also generally accepted, I suppose, that schooling is usually for young people, although not exclusively so. I would put the proposition that education is for all. Older senators in this place may recall the New Education Fellowship Conference that was held in Australia in 1937. 1 certainly do not recall it. I was a part of the scheme, but at the lower level of the infants' school at that stage. It brought together educationists from all over the world to look at this topic of education for living. It stressed education of the young, because that was the sort of thing that was in vogue in those days, but it did introduce educationists in Australia to folk schools, adult education, rural education and many of the things that at that time were not part of the Australian scene. It is interesting that in 1937, which was quite a few years ago, we had introduced to the Australian scene this education for living concept. 
If education has these broad parameters- I do not think there can be any doubt about that- the Government must be involved. That is accepted. If we broaden the parameters of education, obviously the Federal Government has some responsibility, not only for funding but also in the broad policy area. This comes back to the point that  Senator Puplick  has made. But we have to recognise that as well as this all legislation passed by a government has some influence. Any legislation in the welfare area has some impact and effect. Liberal governments have accepted the first proposition. It seems to me that they have not accepted the second. 
Let us remind ourselves briefly of what happened in the years from 1949 to 1972. University funding was introduced. This was a good thing. It was a new concept. The Federal Government said that it would support universities. In 1952, the then Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies,  introduced income tax deductions for education expenses. This again was a departure. It was of assistance to those parents who were spending money on the education of their children. In 1963 grants were made for the support of science laboratories. In 1969 library grants came but, like the income tax deductions, they went basically to the richer schools, to the independent fee paying schools. In 1970 we had per capita grants to independent schools. In 1972  Mr McMahon  proposed a 20 per cent average state school recurrent cost, provided the State contributed the balance. 
These things, although they were innovations at the time, did very little towards achieving the concept of equality of education as we understand it. Rather, it might be fair to say that they further advantaged the advantaged. The cynics would say that the Government was merely buying votes. I am not prepared at this stage to say that, but there is no doubt that those who had were being assisted by the Government in those years. The Liberal-National Country Party governments have a poor record in the second area, that is, what we might call the social wage area, because cuts in social welfare areashealth, housing and social services- all have an effect upon education. There is a cost to parents, if only in respect of the return foregone from their children. Of course, it is much more than that. It is much more than the fact that the parents are missing out because the children are not leaving school and not contributing to the home. We tend to overlook the cost of housing, feeding and clothing children, of providing those additional things that are required by schools, even paying the so-called school fees in state schools. There is a tremendous cost to parents. Unfortunately, there have been quite severe Budget cuts in the areas that I have mentioned. Perhaps I could give three or four illustrations. 
In 1975-76, $26.4m was allocated to the health scheme in schools. In 1978-79 nothing was allocated. It was abolished. In 1975-76, $84m was devoted to growth centres. For 1978-79 the figure was $35.5m. In 1975-76, $138m was spent on sewerage and garbage services. In 1978-79 only $7.4m was spent. In 1975-76, $40m was devoted to aged persons' hostels. For 1978-79 the figure was $29.9m. I have selected this range because one might ask: What has sewerage to do with the cost of education? What has aged persons' homes to do with the cost of education? However, they are all in this social wage area. Obviously the job has to be done. The need does not evaporate. The money has to be found and it can only be found from the taxpayer. We are thinking in this case of relating the taxpayer to the child. There are many more examples that could be given, but I give these few to indicate the philosophy involved. We just cannot consider funding for education in isolation. We must think of it as a total package. We must consider, if we look at the contribution that the Government makes, what it is doing in this other part of the social welfare field. 
Labor came to office in 1972 with a clear philosophy as to what it intended to do. It had a clear intention to improve the equality of opportunity and the standard of education available across the board. In 1977 the needs policy- I do not think I need define that term- had been enunciated at each of the elections from 1967 onwards. The whole concept involved assistance to areas of greatest need. People such as Kim Beazley recognised that they had to work within the Constitution, because it clearly gives certain educational responsibility to the States. But they had the precedents of the Liberal-Country Party to follow, so they were able to move into that field. 
It is a proud boast of the Australian Labor Party that within two days of being declared in office it set up the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission and appointed Karmel to tell it what was needed. The Karmel Committee came up with a number of suggestions. It was, according to the terms of reference, to recommend on the financial needs of all schools, priorities within these needs and measures to meet them. It was asked to recommend grants for the period from 1 January 1974 to 31 December 1975. Grants were to be in addition to existing Commonwealth commitments and not in substitution for continuing efforts by the State and non-government schools authorities. The Committee spelt out the values which guided it, emphasising the need for equality of circumstances of schooling- diversity of schools and the devolution of decision making to those working in or with the schools. It found that most schools lacked sufficient resources, that there were gross inequalities amongst schools and that the quality of education left much to be desired. 
The Committee recognised that its programs were necessary but not sufficient to remedy deficiencies. It recognised that additional funds could buy services of teachers, equipment and buildings but not a climate of opinion or dedicated teachers. It proposed that funds should be as block grants, with schools and school systems free to spend them in accordance with their own preferences. It recommended a relative scale of grants. It proposed two major programs- general recurrent funding, and general building. Others were: Primary and secondary libraries; disadvantaged schools; special education; teacher development; and innovations. With its recognition of the need of the school as the determinant of the funding, the Karmel Committee effectively set aside the debate about State aid. In retrospect, it is now seen as an historically important settlement. However, the recognition of the school rather than the individual as the recipient ran counter to those who chose to see the per pupil grant as fairer. 
We have looked broadly at the Karmel Committee. Honourable senators often hear of Federal assistance being spoken of as 'topping up'. I noticed that  Senator Puplick  used that phrase. We have to be very clear about what we mean by topping up'. Surely it is acceptable only if it is recognised that it is used to suggest that the States have responsibilities and that the States should control but that the Commonwealth would give assistance where the States had spent all they intended to spend and needed a little more. In other words, it was not just a bit more of the same thing. Perhaps I have not put that very well. I shall recast it and say that the concept of topping up meant that the States should spend all that was needed to provide the services that they had been providing, but that the additional money would come in to provide all those extra things that I will now mention. 
I refer to innovation programs. Surely we recognise that what we are doing at the moment is not necessarily the best. With innovations grants there is an opportunity to try out something new. The States cannot provide funds for this, so the money comes from the Federal Government to allow the States to try out new ideas. Perhaps bicultural education, which  Senator Puplick  mentioned, might be one of these. In the early stages of bicultural education a pilot program could be set up. Topping up provided money for the area of isolated children. This is a matter at which the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts looked. I am a member of that Committee. The Committee has been very disappointed with the reaction of Government to its report. Out of the Karmel report came assistance to isolated children and the encouragement to the States to do a lot more than they were doing. Perhaps one of the most important areas was that of disadvantaged children. Under the Schools Commission the concept of disadvantaged schools was recognised. It was seen that some schools needed additional help to be able to cope with the massive problems which they had. 
I was fortunate to be involved with one of these schools in the early days when, at the Katherine School, it was found that the money which was available, even under the generous Federal funding, was not enough to meet the special needs of a group of children at that school. So, money was provided through this program to set up a very small project that simply involved the appointment of two staff members and some additional moneys for services. In that area we were able to take a group of children, who were not achieving because of their deficiency in language, give them concentrated language training and equip them to move into the normal stream. In the time of the Labor Government much money was spent on Aboriginal children- not only in the communities and settlements and missions, as they were then known, but also in the community at large. So, we saw the introduction of the Aboriginal Secondary Education Grants scheme, bi-lingual education and a number of other projects which helped Aboriginal children. 
Two other areas must be mentioned. The first, curriculum development, was introduced through the establishment of the Curriculum Development Centre in Canberra. There was also improvement in the preparation of teachers, not just the normal preparation of teachers but preparation with the additional skills needed by teachers who were to operate in areas with particular demands. These are legitimate areas of Federal assistance, areas which would be affected if funding were cut. What was the State's reaction to Federal funding? After a settling in period, it is fair to say, most States used the money wisely and were prepared to cooperate, and because the people in the State departments saw the needs of the children they were able to clarify for the Federal Department of Education the needs in their areas. Of course, it must be admitted that there were some dogmatic and bigoted politicians in the States who denied any credit to Labor for what was being done. In the total analysis I suppose this does not matter; the children got the advantages. 
It is interesting to note that because of the Federal money provided, in many cases State funding was increased. I think the proposition could be put that the Karmel goals are being met, if they are being met- that is the slight proviso that the Australian Teachers Federation introducednot only because of Federal funding but also because the States have been prepared to react to the provision of money. In other words, funding which came from the Federal Government acted as some sort of incentive- or perhaps in the educational sense, since the Senate has a Ph.D. in Education in the chair, the motivation to do these things. A justification which would be implied for any sort of cut in funding- I am afraid we must expect cuts because the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has warned there will be cuts and the Minister for Education has not denied that there will be cuts- would be along the lines that schooling is not effective. That was implied in some of the comments made tonight. Honourable senators say 'education', but they mean schooling. They talk of low levels of literacy and numeracy and young children not being prepared for employment. The obvious reaction to this must be to suggest that schools do not prepare children only for jobs. This is only one part of their role. There has already been agreement from Government senators that education is for life. 
It is interesting that a Senate committee has been given a reference to look at this question following the Williams comment. Let us fact it, it is not exactly a novel comment to say that schools are not preparing children for the work force. Before the Williams report, the present Minister for Education, whenever he was questioned about these things, would always come up with a comment to the effect that it is not possible to compare what is happening at the moment with what was happening 10, 20 or 30 years ago because there are not statistics for those times; we have only the current statistics. Even if one accepts the proposition that schools are not doing the right thing, surely there is very little logic in saying: 'They are not doing it with the present funding, therefore we ought to cut out some of the funding'. Surely if they are not doing it with present resources they will not do it any better if those resources are cut. 
Certainly, arguments can be put for better utilisation but I cannot accept the proposition- I do not think anyone who seriously thinks about these things would- that money is not everything. Of course it is not but money does mean more teachers and resources, better schools, more aids, supporting staff, counselling, remedial classes and special education. Nobody could possibly say that these things do not represent better education or, for that matter, better schooling. When confronted, the present Minister for Education always trots out comments about the quality of education and says- citing the piece of research done in England- that class size is not important. He seems to have some vague idea of dedicated teachers sitting like Plato on a log. 
What do we mean by 'quality of education'? I wish to quote the Queensland Teachers Union idea of what quality of education is, even though those comments refer to the scene in one State. Honourable senators are reminded that we were told in the Senate the other day that the standard of schooling in Queensland is better than in the rest of Australia. In the Union's submission to the Queensland Treasurer, under the heading 
Quality Education and the Individual Needs of Children ' it states: 
Queensland parents should be entitled to feel confident that the education provided in the state system is of the highest standard, that ample attention is given in the schools to the pupils and students as individuals and that their educational needs will be met by professional people whose ability to meet these needs is not seriously impaired by the imposition of unreasonable funding constraints. 
We would bc failing in our duty if we did not reiterate what has been stated many times before- that the continuing financial stringencies imposed on this state's education system have exacerbated the inadequacies in the provision of basic resources, both human resources in terms of professional and non-professional staff, and physical resources in terms of buildings, facilities and equipment. 
Teachers throughout the world are remarkably consistent in advocating that maximum class size should be set at 25 to 30 pupils for primary and secondary levels of education, with smaller classes at the senior secondary level, infant level, for practical work and for specialist groups. 
The Australian Teachers Federation, the Australian College of Education, the Council of Government Schools Organisations and so on have all come out with pretty clear statements about what we mean by the quality of education. Possibly the greatest problem facing society at present is unemployment, particularly youth unemployment. The present Government does not see this, of course; it sees inflation as being more important than youth unemployment. But I think in the community unemployment is seen as a great problem, particularly by those who are unemployed or who have children who are unemployed. Professor Pearl, professor of education in California, came to Australian 'to raise the level of debate on reasons behind growing unemployment problems, particularly youth unemployment'. The following question was put to Professor Pearl when he was in Australia: 
If education is to play the role it should play what sort of new directions and new approaches would have to be followed? 
The answer was: 
There are two directions. Firstly there would have to be very big changes in curriculum. We would have to move away from an essentially static curriculum in which the students arc passive recipients of knowledge for future utility and move towards problem solving education where the knowledges are being directly applied immediately to relevant problems so that the curriculum is organised around seeing the students as participants in life rather than being organised for a preparation for life. I think that this is a very important kind of discussion that ought to be going on now. The one thing that education doesn't need to do as our society very rapidly is facing important decisions and undergoing rapid changes is to be forced back into some antiquated notion of educational programs. Education must go forwards, not backwards and it is not going to go forward unless it provides the relevant curriculum. 
I cannot speak in a debate on education without mentioning the Northern Territory but I will be very brief. I recall to the Senate that the Minister promised to hand over to the Northern Territory Government on 1 July a system which could be taken as a model for the rest of Australia. What do we see in the Northern Territory at present? We still have a shortage of aids for disadvantaged classes. The situation is extraordinary in that I wrote to the Northern Territory Minister about this and he wrote back to say that the whole matter will be fixed up 'when we take over education'. In other words, the system will need improvement in the first few weeks. There are still problems with Aboriginal education and with staff ceilings, a shortage of support staff and so on ad nauseam. I will not go through these problems; I have mentioned them in this place often enough. 
I will mention one other aspect, and that is the Bill which will oversee education in the Northern Territory after 1 July. This is the Bill which no doubt had its genesis in the Minister's office, the Bill which should have been the pacesetter for the rest of Australia, this wonderful opportunity that we had to be innovative, perhaps to introduce something completely new in education and to provide, on the experience that we had in the States, a system which hopefully would be without defects. It is a Bill which was to lay the foundations of the Northern Territory's educational system. I note from the  Northern Territory News  of 3 1 May that this Bill, this wonderful Bill, was passed after 70-1 repeat 70- amendments. But that is not the worst of it. Not only were there 70 amendments, but also some of these were collected by the Northern Territory Minister for Education and some were collected by the Leader of the Opposition. This wonderful preparation required a joint effort on the part of the two parties in the Northern Territorycommendable though that might be- to make 70 amendments to a Bill setting up education in the Northern Territory. The Australian Teachers Federation has expressed real fears about the course of education if funds are cut. Parents have expressed the same fears. I call on the Government, when considering future funding, to remember that education is for life. I recall to the Minister the speeches that were made by his great leaders in the 1 960s about the wealth of the country being our children. An Australian Teachers Federation newsletter which was sent to the Minister stated: 
Spending on Australia's youth should be seen as an investment in the future and not as an item which is up for grabs when government is looking for spending areas to be cut. 
The immediate needs of Australia's young people and the long term needs of the nation for a skilled and literate population are in danger of being lost amidst the obsession with  the Budget deficit and with the political calculations accompanying it. 
By all means, as I said earlier in my speech, let us get value for money, but obviously simply cutting funds will not achieve this end. Let us find out how we can use our funds most effectively. Let us recognise the Labor Government's contribution in 1972-75, which has been applauded by all educators as showing the way with innovation programs, the programs for disadvantaged children and the practices which grew out of them. These programs have set the pattern, but they must be given a chance to succeed. Let us give them that chance by giving them reasonable funding. 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to the answer to Question No. 953 which I put on notice on 24 October 1 978. 1 remind the Minister that in part the question read: 
Did this channel offer the series to the Australian Broadcasting Commission for televising in areas not covered by the commercial channel. 
I was referring to channel 9 and the rugby league telecasts. The answer given was no. I ask the Minister to check to see whether that is correct, because 1 have it on authority that the series was offered free of charge to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. If it was offered free of charge, will he look into the possibility of making arrangements for rugby league and test cricket matches to be televised to people in areas not covered by the commercial channel? 
We are debating the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill 1979 and I shall do my part this evening by keeping my remarks fairly brief. At this stage of the debate it should not be necessary to reiterate the Australian Labor Party's opposition to the mining of uranium. The arguments of the ALP have been put forward many times and have been heard in this chamber and outside it. No doubt my senior colleague,  Senator Mulvihill,  will mention them also in his contribution to this debate.  His  opposition to the mining of uranium on environmental grounds is well known. Of course, we are not reassured that there are no dangers to the miners who will be mining the uranium. We are not reassured that there is no danger to the environment. Those of us who have seen Rum Jungle recently know that things can happen when mining takes place in that sort of country. 
Recently  Senator McLaren  asked a question which elicited the response that at present a lot of money is being spent on the rehabilitation of Rum Jungle. We are not reassured that there is no danger in waste disposal. We are convinced that no satisfactory method has been found yet for disposing of the tailings. We are not reassured that there are no attendant dangers in the use of uranium. But that is not the subject of this debate. Not in doubt also, I think, is who is to control the National Park. This has been clearly settled by legislation. It is not accepted necessarily by the Northern Territory Government, but it has been clarified by legislation in the Federal Parliament. 
The question of who is to establish and develop Jabiru is the matter to which we have to direct our attention in our consideration of this Bill. I have discussed the matter with my colleagues in the Northern Territory. The views that they have put in the Northern Territory House of Assembly are basically those which I will be putting tonight. What 1 am saying in the Senate will be the same as the contributions they made at the local level. 
Let us look back at the need for this legislation. Basically, the present legislation is not clear, lt does no great credit to the Government to put forward legislation which gives no clear indications to the Director of the Kakadu National Park about, for example, responsibility and powers he has. More importantly, the attitude of the Northern Territory Government has been the reason why this legislation has been brought down and pushed through in the closing days of this session. Basically there has been a breakdown in communication between the Northern Territory Government and the Federal Government. This is the same sort of problem  Senator Chaney  has faced since taking office as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The same sort of problems he has faced in trying to get some resolution to the problem in the Aboriginal Affairs area has been found in the environmental area. It is interesting that members of the present Northern Territory Government put as one of the planks of their platform the fact that they would be able to get on with their colleagues in the Federal scene. It is disturbing to have to report that that Government has a sorry record to date. It has culminated, of course, with the breaking of ties between the Country-Liberal Parties in the Northern Territory and the Liberal and National Country Parties in Canberra. These parties are no longer affiliated. Perhaps this is due to the fact that the Chief Minister in the Northern Territory is a Queenslander by birth. Perhaps he does not like the people in Canberra. The public first became aware of the problems when on 14 May an article appeared on the front page of the  Northern Territory News  headed 'New Fight on Uranium Town'. I will read some extracts from it. It stated: 
The NT Government is heading for a major showdown with the Federal Government over who runs the uranium mining town at Jabiru. 
Chief Minister,  Mr Everingham,  is angry that Commonwealth national parks laws will override Northern Territory laws within the township. 

 Mr Everingham is against wider powers being given to the Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service, Professor Derek Ovington. 
If the director makes the laws, he will have to enforce them himself,  Mr Everingham  said yesterday. 
It is believed  Mr Everingham  wants the national park to exclude the town from its boundaries. 
He is worried that any more delays in Commonwealth administration will further hold up the mining of uranium. 
Territory Opposition spokesman on mining,  Mr Bob  Collins, said today the 'whole mess was a national scandal '. 
There are two matters to which I will refer later but I draw attention to them at this stage. One is the comment made by  Mr Everingham  that if the Director makes the laws he will have to enforce them himself. This is some sort of threat that the police force of the Northern Territory and the normal forces in the Territory will not be available to the Director. The other matter concerns the town boundaries. The present Chief Minister has quite a reputation on the extension of town boundaries, to which I have drawn attention in this place. I commented recently on the fact that the boundaries of Darwin, Katherine, Borroloola and Alice Springs have been extended fantastically. The Darwin boundaries are much larger than the greater City of London. On 15 May a front page article in the same newspaper stated: 
The NT Government 'had been aware for a long time' that Commonwealth laws would apply to the Kakadu National Park, parks Director, Prof Derek Ovington, said today. 
Prof Ovington denied the Commonwealth was intruding on Territory laws as claimed by the Chief Minister,  Mr Everingham. 
The Director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service also denied the service was delaying the development of uranium mining. 
Prof Ovington said the service had 'bent over backwards' to allow development of the uranium mining town at Jabiru . . . 
Due to other delays, the park was not formally proclaimed until April 3, this year', he said. 
Within days we had a request from the Jabiru Town Authority to authorise major work to begin. 
I had no authority under the Act to permit large construction work so we have to have the Act changed'. 
The park plan of management, which is currently open to public submissions, could take several months before it is finally approved by Federal Parliament. 
The article stated further: 
The current amendments being sought are to essentially give me power to implement what the Territory administration wants', Professor Ovington said. 
 I was stuck in a legal position where I simply could not authorise approval for the Jabiru Town Authority. 
Every national park has to have its regulations, and we already have regulations for the park which the NT Government has approved ', he said. 
Prof Ovington said he had invited the NT Government to make a submission on the park plan of management, but so far the Government have not made a submission. 
The final quotes which I want to take from the Northern Territory  News  come from its edition of 22 May, in which, under the heading 'Jabiru Battle Goes to House', again on the front page it states: 
The battle between the NT and Commonwealth Governments over control ofthe Jabiru uranium town spilled over in the Legislative Assembly today when a 'political' bill passed all stages. 
I point out that the word 'political' appears in inverted commas in the article. The article continued: 
The Opposition blasted the Government bill requiring the Jabiru Town Authority to give preference to directions of the NT Minister, as a complete exercise in futility. 
But the Chief Minister.  Mr Everingham,  pledged he would continue his light so that the issues ofthe town and Kakadu National Park should 'not be bungled by a blundering bureaucrat in Canberra.' 

 Mr Collins (ALP Arnhem) said that the context of the amending Jabiru Town Development Bill involved the 'embarrassing antics' of the Chief Minister in his public castigation of the director of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service.  Dr Ovington. 
The bill reversed orders of responsibilities, placing the directions of the NT Minister at Jabiru over provisions in the Federal National Parks Act. 
However in law, this could change nothing because Federal law was paramount. 
The article stated further: 

 Mr Collins said there was nothing new about requirements, and the director must control such matters as liquor and traffic movements in a town in a national park. 

 Mr Collins said it had always been the situation that Jabiru and uranium was subject to Kakadu park management, and the Opposition believed it always should be. 
The Opposition Leader.  Mr Isaacs,  said whatever Government was in power in Canberra it should have responsibilities for national parks as national resources. 
The final reference to the Chief Minister which I shall quote appeared towards the end of the article and is as follows: 
He would continue to fight to have national parks in the NT administered by the NT,  Mr Everingham  said. 
I have read those sections of the article because I believe that they give a background to what we are looking at at the present time. It is clear that the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory does not accept the situation that the Federal Government has responsibility. It appears that the original discussions which were held with him on the matter- they have been noted before- did not lead to clear guidelines being set. 1 mentioned earlier that the Chief Minister had threatened to withhold services of the police force, with the comment that if Professor Ovington makes the rules he must enforce them. It is obvious that Northern Territory laws must prevail at Jabiru, as they do in every other part of the Northern Territory. The education laws, the liquor laws, the traffic laws and so on must apply. That has been made clear by Professor Ovington in his public statements. The police must be available at Jabiru, as they are at every other centre - 
-We will see that when he goes to the conference next year. The police must be available at Jabiru, as other public servants are available. They must be prepared to do the job for which they are paid. I am quite sure they would want to do that job. Professor Ovington obviously cannot make laws. It is not his function to do so. He is there to do something completely different. But he must work within the framework of Northern Territory laws and Federal laws. That point has been made very clear. I think it is only fair to Professor Ovington to say that in his public comments, he has made it clear that he intends to do that. It is of no credit to the Chief Minister that he acts in that petulant way. 
The national park is the responsibility of the national Government. Uranium mining is the responsibility of the national Government. Legislation has been enacted in this place to make sure that that is so. It follows quite logically that the establishment and development of Jabiru must also be under national control. I want to make it clear that I am not attacking the Northern Territory Government; I am not letting down my side. I think that the comments I have made in this place have been quite clear and suggest that I have supported the Northern Territory. But I believe that on this issue the Northern Territory Government is wrong. The Opposition in the Northern Territory believes that the Northern Territory Government is wrong. It has nothing to do with the colour of the politics in either place. The sorts of comments which have been made would have been made regardless of which colour of politics was in power in Darwin and in Canberra. 
It is interesting that the Aboriginal people look to the national Government for control in this area as in most other areas. Discussions I have had with them on a number of issues, ranging from land rights, which we have talked about in this place before, right through to a number of other areas, suggest that they do not want control of the situation to be in Northern Territory Government hands. I cannot say whether the situation would be any different if we had a different government in the Northern Territory. 
But Aboriginal people do not trust the present Northern Territory Government. There are a number of reasons for this, and I am not going to suggest that we debate them here because it would not be appropriate. 
The Labor Party does not oppose the legislation. However, there are a number of matters that ought to be raised. Firstly, there is a need for clear consultation between all the people involved- regular discussions with all the people involved, lt is quite clear that the situation that has developed in this area, as in a number of other areas- I have mentioned aboriginal affairs, but I could mention some others as well- has developed because communication has broken down. This situation must be overcome. It seems quite clear that Professor Ovington, as he has claimed in the newspaper article, has bent over backwards to meet the Northern Territory Government's demands. I trust that this cooperation will continue. It ought to continue, and it ought to continue with all the people involved. That is one of the roles that Professor Ovington ought to have- to make sure that he represents all the views and to try to build those views into the framework of his administration of the park. So let me stress once again the need for close consultation with all peoples involved. 
The second point that I think needs to be made is the need for clarification of responsibility. I think the broad areas of responsibility have been outlined. They are clear, but the finer points need filling out. I am concerned, for example, at an answer given to a question raised yesterday by my colleague,  Senator Kilgariff.  As recorded at page 25 15 of the Senate  Hansard  of 4 June, he said: 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Mention was made on AM this morning that a report from the Department of Science and the Environment indicates that radioactivity levels at Nabarlek uranium mine in the Northern Territory are higher than was previously indicated, and that the health of workers there may be endangered. Can the Minister advise the Senate whether the report is correct? If so. are sufficient safeguards being carried out, and what is the present overall situation? 
That is an excellent question and one which needs to be answered because of the terrific importance it has for the workers in the Northern Territory. Part of the answer from  Senator Webster-  I just extract those words relevant to the argument- reads as follows: 
In accord with normal practice in the administration of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act, the Department's report was referred to  Mr Anthony, Mr Howard  and  Senator Chancy,  the three Ministers with direct responsibility for Commonwealth decisions relation to Nabarlek. 
An extract from the second paragraph of the Minister's answer reads: 
The Department's report recommends that appropriate environmental protection measures be taken in order to safeguard the health of workers. I believe that the point of the honourable senator's question is met by the fact that these measures have been incorporated as conditions of the approval to mine, and that they are being implemented by the company in respect of its operations, which commenced recently. The honourable senator knows, of course, that responsibility for ensuring compliance with these conditions rests with the Northern Territory Government. 
Whilst those remarks relate to Nabarlek, I think it appropriate that I use them as an example of what should apply at Jabiru. I ask the Minister: Is it so that the responsibility for ensuring compliance rests with the Northern Territory Government? If it is so, does the Northern Territory know this? These are the sorts of areas that I think need to be clarified. I suggest there is a need for frequent conferences to set clear guidelines on these finer points, to clarify the respective responsibilities to avoid duplication but, more importantly, to avoid misunderstanding. 
The third point that I think needs to be looked at very carefully is the need to retain men of the calibre of Professor Ovington as Director. The Director has a great deal of responsibility. He has a great deal of authority. When Profesor Ovington was appointed, we were given in this place a very full outline of his ability and there was recognition on both sides of the chamber of the calibre pf the man. But I make the point that whilst Professor Ovington has a lot of authorityand this amending Act gives him more authority- he needs commensurate responsibility in the full sense of the word. The Labor Party does not object to the legislation, but our non-opposition is based on the assumption that the position will never become political; that the Director will always place the interests of the Park before all other interests, including vested interests. We do not oppose the legislation but reiterate that much needs to be done if the project is to proceed. There is a need for a fair measure of the sort of goodwill that  Senator Chaney  speaks about. I call for a strong position to be taken by the Government in relation with the Northern Territory Government. We do not want a repeat performance of the Queensland situation. 
I repeat that I do not want this to be seen in any way as if I am letting down the Northern Territory Government. The simple fact is that decisions have been made, agreements have been reached and these must be honoured. If the Chief Minister feels that the Northern Territory should have control, as he has said in statements in the Press, and supports his suggestion with a proposition that other States feel they ought also to have control, he can work through the proper channels to achieve this end. But until the law is changed, until amending legislation is introduced, we expect him not to break the law but to co-operate with goodwill. 
We would rather Jabiru was not being built, as it is, to be part of uranium mining. There is no doubt about that. We would rather not see mining proceed in the area. But decisions have been made and it is obvious that we have to accept them. If it is to be built the proper authority should be responsible and the project should proceed along proper lines and the proper lines are set out in this Bill. Therefore we do not oppose the legislation. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Button.  Let us remind ourselves of what this Bill sets out to do. Let me read from the  Canberra Times  the comments the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  made about what he sees the Bill sets out to do. In the report in the  Canberra Times  he said: 
The Bill introduces two important new concepts. It places an onus on management to seek to redeploy staff wherever possible as a primary obligation, and it provides more satisfactory and extensive safeguards and appeal rights for all. 
In addition the Bill introduces an important new condition of employment, the right to voluntarily retire on an appropriately reduced pension from the age of 55 onwards. 
Of course, others say different things. Others say that this Bill is Mark II of the disastrous legislation which was introduced by the Government in 1977. Whilst it has some desirable features, it has some undesirable features. In fact, in the other place the suggestion was made that it deserves the description of 'bad legislation'. It is unfortunate that the Commonwealth Government could not follow the lead of the Northern Territory Government, which introduced legislation that avoids the undesirable features of this legislation and introduces the desirable features of it. It seems to me that the Bill is symptomatic of the present Government's attitude to the Public Service. I think that  Senator Evans  expressed this aspect well when he spoke of the attitude of the present Government to the Public Service, and I do not intend to delay the Senate by going through it again. 
The Commonwealth Public Service surely is in the great tradition. I go so far as to suggest that the Public Service is as much a part of the Westminster system as we who occupy our places in this chamber and those who occupy places in the other chamber. It is the result of the need for a service which implements the decisions of the 
Parliament. Honourable senators should note that I said 'implements the decisions of the Parliament', not 'of the Government'. After all, as it was so aptly put this afternoon, the decisions made in this place ought to be the decisions of the Parliament, not of the Government. Unfortunately the situation at present is even worse because the decisions made in this place are the decisions of the Executive- not even of the Government and certainly not of the Parliament. I feel that we have to think in terms of the Public Sevice being the instrument of the Parliament. 
What are the cornerstones of the Public Service as it fulfils this most important role? The first is loyalty to the Parliament. I will not delay the Senate by carrying on a discussion about that. I think that the words convey the impression. Those who have been in the Public Service or who know of the work done by the Public Service will know what the word 'loyalty' implies. The senior public servant has a responsibility to advise his Minister and to make recommendations for action and policy. Of course, the final decision rests with the Minister, but then the Public Service goes on to implement the decision that has been made by the Parliament. 
I have often told a story which illustrates the point I am trying to make here. It concerns a senior public servant in whose office I was sitting one day. The public servant was having a discussion with his Minister. This Minister was a very talented person, a man who later became the Governor-General of Australia-  Sir Paul  Hasluck. This senior public servant was arguing with the Minister about a proposition which the Minister was putting forward, but it was quite clear from the conversation, of which I could hear half, that the Minister's view was prevailing. Eventually the Minister made a decision which obviously he conveyed to the public servant. A few days later I was at a public meeting where the senior public servant put the Minister's case with enthusiasm and vigour. It seems to me that this sums up the work of the senior public servant. It is a cornerstone of the Public Service that the senior public servant will advise and discuss and then, after a decision has been made, will implement the policy on which the Parliament has decided. 
Knocking the Public Service has become a sport and bureaucracy unfortunately has become a dirty word. To me the so-called bureaucratic system is sound in theory and could be sound in practice. I am not suggesting for a moment that it is not without its faults, but it is well based. One of the faults within the Public Service that we  might look at is the broad general area of supervision. If we had time I would give my views on that because I feel that by looking at this aspect of the Public Service we could remove many of the problems associated with it and bring back to it the sort of name, shall we say, or the sort of reputation which it ought to have. It is not without faults, but these can be corrected. 
Honourable senators will recall that the Labor Government set up the Coombs Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration to make recommendations on how this could be done. To its discredit the present Government has ignored the recommendations of the Coombs royal commission. I suggest that this Bill will do little to improve the Public Service. I repeat that ideally the public servant is loyal to his Parliament. Of course, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  believes this when it suits him and encourages disloyalty when it suits him. Honourable senators will recall that when Labor was in government there seemed to be an active encouragement by the then Opposition for people to leak documents and to be disloyal to the government of the day. In fact, a cynic would say that there was an active encouragement of disloyalty. However, I maintain that the majority of public servants want to be loyal. In return for this loyalty they ask for two things: Security and job satisfaction. 
When I was a young man, many people entered the Public Service for one reason, namely, security. Then as they grew older, they looked for job satisfaction. In the days when I was looking for a job my parents and the parents of my peer group had the memories of the Depression days. Youngsters like myself gave away the possibility of earning more money by going into business enterprise. In return for that we asked for security. The people who made that decision are still in the Public Service. They are the people about whom we are speaking. They are the people who fit into the category towards the end of their service, the 45 to 65 age group. What has the present Government done for the Public Service in the past  Vh  years? I do not doubt that it has basically emasculated the Public Service and left it open to criticism because it does not provide the services that it wants to provide and ought to provide. The Government has destroyed the morale of the Public Service for that same reason because it is not providing the service it wants to provide and ought to provide. 
How has the Government done this? It has done it by the simple expedient of staff cuts and cuts in government expenditure. Obviously, if a public servant cannot do his job properly he will not get satisfaction from it. We come to the situation that we will talk about later where he will not get his job security, either. Let us look at one aspect of this matter, the staff cuts. The Prime Minister said in one of his promises that have not been kept that there would be no retrenchments. This document has been produced in the chamber tonight. 'Staff cuts would be obtained by natural wastage' was the statement. 
We now have the ridiculous situation in which senior officers- obviously they are the ones most likely to go first- would leave. There would be promotions to fill their positions. Obviously the senior positions must be filled, but we would have no juniors to fill the lower ranks. We have here a complete waste of resources. I have even seen the ridiculous situation of senior officer doing their own typing- a job for which they are completely unsuited and untrained. They were doing this work because no staff was available to do it for them. Obviously we must see a drop in efficiency in the Service. If there is a drop in efficiency obviously there will be a drop in morale about which I have spoken. 
This position has been exacerbated, as I have said in this chamber a number of times, by the unfortunate situation of senior officers in the Public Service pretending there is no problemagain, this loyalty of which I spoke earlier, the situation where a senior public servant would try to protect his Minister and try to protect the Parliament which he saw as his master, by saying that there were no problems. Many departments are inefficient at present. The work that is not seen by the public is the work which is not being done; so we are building up a backlog which eventually will hit us with a bang. I am prepared to say, after watching some of the departments, that they are lurching from one crisis to the next with no efficiency, no satisfaction and low morale. 
Let us look at the second way the Government attacked the Public Service. This was through cuts in expenditure and across the board savings, again leading to inefficiency and a waste of resources. For example, advisers who were supposed to be advising were not able to get out into the field. They were sitting around the office wasting their time. Other people were not able to move because there was no money for travel. The service was not provided. The time of the officers was wasted. There was low morale amongst those people because they were not doing the job for which they were recruited. There was low morale in the field where people were waiting for these advisers to give their services. 
Let me move to the attitude of the unions to the Bill. I refer to the Press release of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, which states: 
ACOA wanted to appeal to ali members of Parliament to consider the ' grave faults ' in the Bill including- 
1 ) Efficient, capable officers could be sacked merely because of the change in priorities of the government of the day. 
"Management-Initiated-Early-Retirement", which  Mr Blunden  described as "a trendy word for retrenchment" could be applied to officers of any age. 
The only appeal provision forced an employee to "name" his or her work-mate as an alternative person to be sacked. 
The Government could "avoid all conflict" by legislating for voluntary early retirement and leaving the other provisions on one side for "further negotiations with the Public Service unions." 
At the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations conference the following resolution was passed: 
Conference notes policy determined at 1977 conference that CAGEO vigorously and totally oppose legislation in any form which incorporates management initiated retirement provisions. 
Calls upon the Federal Executive to actively implement such policy in opposing the Commonwealth Employment ( Redeployment and Retirement) Bill. 
Declares that the Commonwealth Employment (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill is offensive to merit based career service employment and to CAGEO in numerous other respects. 
Requires that the full support of CAGEO and its affiliates including if necessary collective industrial action be given to protect the interests of affiliated members who conscientiously refuse to co-operate in the administration of any Act which results from the Commonwealth Employment (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill in its current substance. 
Obviously, honourable senators on the other side of the chamber will say that the rank and file member do not give their support. Already tonight I have heard that comment made by one of the speakers on the other side of the chamber. Let us look at the facts of the situation. The Public Service unions traditionally do not strike. Their members feel an obligation to work because of the loyalty which I mentioned earlier. That has been reinforced by the warnings of departments of punitive action. I think it is quite obvious that many of the public servants went to work because of loyalty. Many went because they did not trust the present Government. I believe that they were justified in feeling that punitive action would follow if they did strike. The Administrative and Clerical Officers Association put an advertisement in the  Canberra Times,  which stated, in part that the ACOA: 
CONDEMNS the misleading statements by Minister Viner and PSB press releases repeating the political view that there was "very minimal " support for the ACOA action. (Official statements that 15.000 clerical administrative staff could have taken part in the stop work action, relating only to ACOA financial members, were demonstrably false. About 1 1,000 ACOA members were normally due to attend work on 29 May- and at least 4,000 absented themselves in the first ACOA membership-wide stoppage in 65 years). 
I make one final comment before I make positive suggestions, which the Government always calls for in these sorts of debates.  Mr McLeod,  the Secretary of the Public Service Board, was reported in the  Canberra Times  of 29 May as follows: 
It's fundamental to that process that one person has the right of knocking ofl" one of his workmates, the only difference being that in that case the matter at issue is who should be successful in gaining a promotion or a position: in the other case it's who the person is who's got the least claims for continued employment where the total demand is less than the available staff. 
While there was a difference in degree, ' the concept of dobbing in a mate ... is equally valid in the case of promotions'. 
I suggest that that is a complete misrepresentation of the situation. In promotion appeals, completely unsatisfactory as they are in the Public Service- I will have something to say about that later- a person works very hard to attain the qualifications and experience to equip him for a senior position. He is quite entitled to appeal if management tries a little of the patronage which sometimes management does try. In the case of this Bill, the man is asked to nominate a person who should be sacked instead of him. On the one side, we have two people, both with basically the same qualifications and basically the same experience, who would go in front of the court to try to decide who should be the one to get the job. But the other person would remain in his present position; he would not get a promotion. In the second case, it is quite clear that the person would not remain within the Service. If the Secretary sees no difference between those two situations, it is not surprising that we have the sort of legislation which is being suggested and that the Public Service appeals system has such low credibility. I would like to suggest an alternative, but because of the time I will not proceed with that. 
What should be done? These are suggestions of positive action for which the Government asks. Firstly, the Government should change its attitude towards the Public Service and appreciate the loyalty given to it by the public servants. Today the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate again knocked the Public Service. Let us have this sort of thing stopped. Let us have the public servants seen as the loyal people they are, trying to do a job to implement the policies of the Parliament. Make them efficient. The way to do that is by taking the advice of the Coombs report and other reports. But make sure that they have sufficient staff to do the job and sufficient finance so that they have the supportive services. 
I suggest also that the Government should try to understand the attitude of the loyal 50-year- old public servant who is looking for job satisfaction. It does not take much reading to find out that after a person passes the age of 45 or 50 the matter of remuneration is not so important as job satisfaction. I repeat what  Senator Mason  said earlier on in this debate. Let the Government see public servants as people, involved people and not simply as ciphers. If redeployment is necessary let us have realistic redeployment. Let us make some changes on valid grounds, not simply economic grounds. Let us have grounds of efficiency of organisation, not grounds of saving money. 
The third suggestion one could make- this has been suggested in our amendment- is to redraft the Bill to remove the obnoxious clauses. In redrafting the Bill the Government should have real discussions with the peak unions, not simply token discussions, and should be guided by the advice which they will give and by the advice which the Coombs report and other reports have given. For goodness sake, recruit where necessary. Think of the future. We need support staff and we need senior people in the future. It seems ridiculous to me that at present we are saying that we are not going to recruit young people. It is as ridiculous as not recruiting apprentices into the trades. If we do not have apprentices in the trades we will not have masters in a few years time. If we do not have young people, coming into the Public Service we will not have senior staff in a few years time. 
The next suggestion I make is that we introduce an acceptable appeals system which will meet the criteria of openness, fairness and letting justice be done and being seen to be done. Support for opposition to the Bill has come from an unexpected quarter. I would have liked to read the comments from the Returned Services League Congress but time is getting away. 
-I have not shown them to the Government. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a statement from the  Canberra Times  which simply reports on the Public Service support from the RSL Congress. 
Leave granted. 
PS UNIONS GET SUPPORT OVER BILL 
Public Service unions opposed to the Commonwealth Employees Redeployment and Retirement Bill at present before Parliament received support yesterday from an unexpected quarter- the Returned Services League. 
The unions have threatened industrial action against the legislation though a strike called on Tuesday by the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association attracted little support. 
Yesterday the 53rd congress of the ACT branch of the RSL called upon the Government to amend the Bill so as to preserve the rights of ex servicemen in redeployment or retirement on invalidity grounds. 
The motion passed by the congress laid particular stress on the preservation of the pension and superannuation rights of war veteran public servants. 
Speakers to the motion pointed out that large numbers of World War II veterans are now at the stage at which the Bill can enforce compulsory management-initiated retirement. 
The branch  president, Mr A.  T. S. Clarke, said the Bill was dangerous not in what it said but in what it left unsaid. "As a new Act it will supersede previous Acts under which the Commonwealth employs its staff",  Mr Clarke  told the congress. "This could have grave effects on ex-service employees in the order of retirement priorities and invalidity. "Under the Bill's invalidity provisions an ex-service employee could receive a lower rate of superannuation pension. There is also the possibility that any war compensation received may be deducted from this lower pension. "This Bill is aimed at the age group of the World War II veteran and the Government should be asked to spell out in more detail what it proposes",  Mr Clarke  added. 
I thank the Senate. These people are obviously looking after their own members but they are also supporting the logic of the opposition to the Bill. Support has come from many other areas. Honourable senators will have received letters both personal and circular similar to the ones that I received. I will sum up by reading a statement which comes from the  Canberra Times.  It is a good conclusion to the argument. The full impact of the criticism of this Bill has been summed up fairly successfully. An editorial in the  Canberra Times  of 6 April states among other things: 
It would be difficult to envisage a measure better designed to undermine the foundations of the Public Service ... it will no longer be possible for a recruit to join the service, or any of the unnamed statutory authorities to be 'prescribed ' for its purpose, with any assurance of serving until retirement. 
But the essentially random nature of the proposal- anyone may be 'declared' just because an area of work has been reduced for any reason- is likely to be punishing to morale. The incentive to specialise can only be sapped 6y the constant possibility that an adequate, but not necessarily superior, , A..,n r.-' can be slotted into any position at the board's sole whim. 
It concludes: 
The Australian Bureaucracy is not beyond improvement, but this  is  no way to upgrade it or its management.  1 commend the amendment to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Chaney)  adjourned. 

 Thursday, 7 June 1979 

-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The purpose of the Bill has already been outlined by the two previous speakers. It is to authorise the Minister to conclude agreements with the States of New South Wales, Queensland Victoria and Western Australia and to provide $70m up to 1 982-83 financial year. We have noted that $3m has already been supplied.  Mr Charles  Jones in the other place, who is an exMinister for Transport, noted that the Bill is unnecessary because since this money is a loan, it could have been supplied through the Loan Council. He went on further to say that the Bill is another example of the broken promises of the present Government. In 1 977 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stated in a supplementary statement to his policy speech: 
Interstate railways. A contribution of about $70m over five years beginning 78/9, will be made to a joint commonwealth-state program for upgrading state railways which are part ofthe national mainline system. 

 Mr Jones makes the valid point that anyone who read the statement would believe that this was a grant. There is no suggestion that it will be a loan; rather, it will be a grant. That is quite clear from the phrase 'a joint Commonwealth-State program'.  Mr Jones  also compared the record of Labor in its three years of office with that of this Government. In two years the former Labor Government contributed $138m of a total program of $209m. That contribution was a grant. There was no suggestion that it would be a loan. It was not, as is this money, repayable. 
If we go back to the 1 977 election campaign we see that both of the major parties promised support for the upgrading of State main lines. What are main lines? The Bill, in clause 4(1), defines a main line as a principal line connecting capitals in adjoining States. As  Senator Collard  has commented, it goes on, in clause 4 (2) to say that the Minister might declare as a main line a line of national importance. I will come back to that later. 
It is unfortunate that neither the Bill nor the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  in his second reading speech, indicated the future role of the Australian National Railway commissioners. I do not think there is any doubt that there is a clear need to co-ordinate the various modes of transport within Australia. This point has been made strongly at all the Transport Ministers' meetings. It has been made in other places as well. It has been recognised outside of the Parliament. In fact, the Australian Chamber of Shipping recognised it when it said: 
There is ample evidence to suggest an urgent need to extend into some major ports the Australian standard gauge rail system. The Chamber considers that the provision of standard gauge railway services is a question of major national concern bearing in mind the need to ensure that port and trading facilities are: ( 1 ) flexible and able to use local and interstate rail vehicles; 
easily accessible from the point of view of a national rail linkage in the light of future defence considerations. 
I will come back to that because I want to draw attention to the need for linkage with a port, but that statement from the Australian Chamber of Shipping does draw attention to the need to coordinate the various modes. The role of the Australian National Railways itself is not clarified.  Senator Gietzelt,  my colleague, drew attention to that. Australia is ideally suited to a rail system. On the Nationwide program of 8 May the following comment was made: 
Australia is ideally suited to an efficient economic railway system. We have a flat country with centres of population hundreds or thousands of kilometres apart. If we make railways do what they're good at, in other words long distance freight haul, they should become highly profitable. 
But towards the end of the program the following caution was offered: 
ANR is in an ideal situation, lt controls all transcontinental traffic and traffic between Adelaide and Sydney and Adelaide and Melbourne. They also run the Indian Pacific, the Ghan, the Trans Australian and the Overlander. In 1975 they were set up as the framework for a modern national efficient railway system. In their charter they're obliged to make a profit ultimately but their problems are enormous. In fact they've got to tackle over 100 years of rather unfortunate political history . . . it 's been a legacy of indecision and petty squabbling and perhaps nothing shows that up more than the different gauges. 
The need for the railway network has also been covered by  Senator Gietzelt  and I shall not go over it again. But I would make the point that Thomas, the founder of Thomas Nationwide Transport, who is now a transport consultant, came up with a proposition for an overall rail system that I think is well worth repeating. The following is a quotation from a newspaper article: 
My suggestion is for a scheme whereby at least a major sector of the railways can be run at a profit. I propose that an interstate rail authority, to be known as Austrail, be established on four principles: 
It would handle freight only and would be required to run at a profit without subsidy. 
In stage one it would handle over one-tonne lots only between the five mainland State capitals. 
It would give a door-to-door service in active competition with the forwarding agents. 
It would vastly reduce road maintenance, road facilities and energy consumption because, given fair competition, it would on its merits run most of the juggernaut interstate semi-trailers out of business. 
Austrail would be a statutory authority, like the Australian National Line or Qantas or T.A.A. It would have a board of three commissioners, the  chairman  to be fulltime, appointed for the three years and then dismissed if they fail to reach the profit objective. 
Austrail would progressively take over from the State railways and from the Australian National Railways the necessary rolling stock and other capital equipment at a reasonable price. 
When you look at the railways, shown in schematic form on the map - 
The map was included with the article:   . . you realise that all that is needed to connect these five capitals with a standard-gauge (4 ft 8'A in) line is to supplement the existing inland track with a dual track from Brisbane to Wallangarra, a distance of only 240 kilometres. 
The only criticism that I have is that it does not make any reference to connecting with the Northern Territory. I will come back to that again at a later stage. 
Let me turn to the situation in the Northern Territory. I have already spoken of the bipartisan approach in 1977 to support the upgrading of mainland lines. At the present time in the Northern Territory and, I believe, in the rest of 
Australia, there is this same bipartisan approach. Last week in the Senate,  Senator Kilgariff  presented a number of petitions which have been organised by the Liberal-Country Party in the Northern Territory calling for the building of the rail link between Alice Springs and Darwin. Of course, it is part of the Australian Labor Party policy in the Northern Territory, and has been for many years. It was also the aim of the Australian Labor Party when it was in government. 
I would like here to refer to some statements made by  Mr Charles  Jones, the then Minister for Transport, when he was opening the construction work on the Tarcoola to Alice Springs rail link.  Mr Charles  Jones had this to say: 
But the form of this ceremony is of little importance compared with what it represents, lt is a recognition of the important contribution that inland Australia has made to the development of Australia's communications. 
It also evidences a commitment on the part of the Australian Government to create an improved transport system for Central and Northern Australia and so improve the quality of life of those Australians who live in Australia 's ' Dead Heart ' and in its 'Top End '. 
Later in the same speech, he said: 
Inland Australia's transport achievements are still continuing. In the 1950s and 1960s we have seen the development of beef roads and the evolution of the road train. Commonwealth Railways has been associated with the latter development through its co-ordinated road-rail service which operates through Central, North and North- Western Australia. Today we are witnessing the commencement of a railway which itself represents a further step toward overthrowing 'the tyranny of distance' which has so long been a feature of Central Australia. 
The Tarcoola to Alice Springs line is evidence of the Australian Government's determination to provide an improved transport system for Northern and Central Australia. The narrow-gauge Central Australian Railway was built as a pioneer railway intended to serve an extremely small and sparse population. Little thought was given to the strategic importance that the line would assume in the event of an attack upon Australia (as in fact was the case in World War II ), or the vital role the railway would play in the development of inland Australia's cattle mining and tourist industries. 
A little later on, as late as May 1978, there was a report in the Northern Territory News which stated: 

 Mr Vern Dyason the General Manager of Commonwealth Railways has indicated that the Australian Railways Commission will recommend to Federal Transport Authorities that the Adelaide-Darwin railway link be completed. On the other hand there are indications that the Department of Transport does not believe that the amount of traffic would warrant a Darwin-Alice Springs link at the present time. 
I sound that note of caution only because it comes from the report of the Commission. I will have something further to say about that at a later stage. I quoted at length what  Mr Charles  Jones had to say because he covered the whole approach to the Northern Territory including the need for the link with Alice Springs and the need for the further link from Alice Springs to Darwin. He touched on the major reasons including defence, tourism, the development of the mining industry, the cattle industry and so on. 
Let us have a look at the situation in the Northern Territory at the present time. The situation that I have to describe is no great credit to the present Government. There was an original line gauge line from Darwin to Larrimah. In 1967-78 the Commonwealth Railways relaid the Frances Creek to Darwin section. This 145-mile section of the 3 1 1-mile line was put down with a heavier 80 lbs gauge. From then until the closing of the line there was a lot of track improvement. If time permitted I would go through the list of achievements of the North Australia Railway at that time. We saw houses being developed at Parap and amenities such as the hall which has been established as an institute of men. A wonderful workshop was built at Parap as part of the railway structure. There was continual upgrading and laying of ballast along the road. I will not bore the Senate with the details other than to say that during that time the whole of the line was upgraded. 
In 1976 the government of the day- the present Government- decided to close the line. Actually, what it decided to do was to withdraw services and to maintain the line on a minimum care and maintenance basis. But what it actually did, of course, was to close the line. There was a terrific outcry.  Mr Ryan,  the man who had responsibility for the line in the Northern Territory Government- they were not called Ministers in those days- said that the line would be closed over my dead body'. Such was the strength of his feeling. He is not dead; he was defeated in an election. Nevertheless he had a terrifically strong feeling about the closing of the line, as did all the parties in the Northern Territory. Party members and public citizens came out and spoke about the matter. But the line was not maintained. The rails were dug up. They are loaded on the flat tops in the railway yard. The bridges have fallen into disrepair. The electrical systems have long since been unserviceable. The workshop which I mentioned- an excellent workshop- has been given away. The houses have passed to the State Housing Commission and the workmen have scattered. That was a shocking waste of resources. We had a good line that could have been used. There is no reason why we could not be using the line at present just as a commuter service. There is quite a number of new settlements in the area formerly serviced by the line. In one suburb- if I might call it that- there are 8,000 people. If that area had been serviced by a commuter service it would have meant that the rest of the line could be used later if necessary. 
Let me give an indication of just one minor effect of stopping the rail service. Let us look at the transport costs from Alice Springs to Darwin at the time of the closing of the line in 1976. The cost of transporting a tonne of beer was $4 1 .5 1 at the old rate. The new rate is $58.83 per tonne. The old rate for insulwool and mattresses was $267.46. The new rate is $537.66. The rate for general cargo has jumped from $97.56 to $119.66. The rate for furniture has risen from $242.56 to $283.91. These are the short term effects of simply cutting out that brief section- 300 miles- of rail. One could imagine, without going into detail how cheap it would be to transport goods the full distance by rail. Of course, there have been many more long term effects. They are fairly obvious and I am sure that there is no need fo me to elaborate on them. 
The pity of the matter is that it need not have happened. The decision which was taken- it was taken at the time of the Lynch mini-Budget- was apparently based on operating costs. That was most unreasonable because at that time- 1976- the major portion of the loss had been brought about as a result of Cyclone Tracy. For example, the iron ore from Frances Creek could not be transported to Darwin for shipment because the loading facilities had blown away and the wharf had been damaged. The railway property and equipment was not insured. The reclamation and rebuilding of that property and equipment had to be debited to working capital. Of course, after cyclone Tracy, there was naturally a fall-off in the amount of goods traffic. So I do not think that closure of the line was really needed. A case could have been put, as we put at the time, for the line to continue and to form the basis for later development. 
What is the Federal Government's responsibility in this matter? Section 14 of the Northern Territory Acceptance Act 1910-73 imposes a duty on the Government to construct the line from Port Darwin to the South Australian border. Clause 21 of the Railway Standardisation (South Australia) Agreement Act 1949 requires the Commonwealth, firstly, to convert to standard gauge the Port Augusta to Alice Springs link. This was rescinded, as honourable senators would know, by clause 6 of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Railway Act 1 974. Secondly, it requires the Commonwealth to construct a standard gauge from Alice Springs to Darwin and, thirdly, to convert the Birdum to Darwin line to standard gauge Here is a clear indication that the Federal Government has a legislative responsibility. Of course, it is not the only responsibility of the Government, as was indicated before when I quoted  Mr Jones.  The Government has responsibility for development, mining, tourism and the cattle industry which are all developing and which all need energy efficient and energy economic transport. I refer to the comments made by  Senator Collard  on this point. We need to develop a transport system that is not heavily dependent on oil. The Government has a responsibility for defence. Certainly, there is no need to elaborate on that. It has been mentioned by  Mr Jones  and I do not think I need to go beyond those remarks. It is interesting to note that in the statement by  Mr Thomas,  to which I referred, he talked about the financing of his scheme of Austrail and related it to defence in this way. He stated: 
How to finance the upgrading of this existing inland track to a modern 80-knot standard? No problems. Call it defence. 
As a start, put 1 ,000 unemployed men and women on to it, pay them the $300m we would save by cancelling one of the three already obsolete patrol frigates we are about to order from uncle sam for $900m (with planes) and let us enjoy a superb hot-shot inter-capital service while we are awaiting the next war. 
Remember that, if war should come again, 'greendog'- 
I interpellate here and say that 'greendog' is the name of one of the truckies who were involved in the industrial trouble at that time- and his fellow-travellers will be grounded by distillate rationing. Remember the mighty part played by our railways in the last war. Remember that a peacetime infrastructure geared to war is every bit as important to defence as conventional armaments which rapidly obsolesce in any case. 
Therefore, there is a responsibility for a national railway network to link all the capitals. There is a responsibility to develop trade, to use Darwin as the entrepot for Asia and to assist with the development of our empty north. Let us hope that the next Bill that comes into this place will have included in it a component for building the Alice Springs to Darwin line. Let us hope that this line will not be built on loan but on grant. The arithmetic has been done and the figures are quite realistic. It is ideal to start building soon because we would then stimulate the economy and, of course, we would provide employment for those who are unemployed. In conclusion, let me simply recap. The Government has a legislative responsibility. It has a responsibility to conserve fuel and energy. Railways are ideally suited for this. The Government has a responsibility for defence. The Government has a responsibility for development. The world swing is back to railways. Let Australia be part of this swing, with well planned networks, utilising our energy resources, and develop our country. I support the Bill. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that a Commonwealth Department of Health survey showed a high incidence of the Anopheles mosquito at the Jabiru town site? Is it a fact that the sight for the town was selected by the Federal Government? If these are facts, what action does the Government propose to take to overcome the problem of the possible introduction and spread of malaria, given the numbers of people who will work at Jabiru and reside in Darwin? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
1 ) Is the body known as Ngaligilangu Cattle Company incorporated under Northern Territory Law or Federal Law. 
When did this company first request transfer of cattle owned by the Crown. 
Was the company promised transfer of ownership of such cattle on 1 July 1 978; if so, why was this promise not kept. 
Will the cattle be transferred to the company on 1 July 1979; if not, why not. 
Is the Crown holding the cattle because of the current price boom. 
If the Crown retains ownership, will it reimburse the Aboriginal company for (a) agistment of approximately 3000 head; and (b) for natural increases to the herd at current market rates. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) When will the Commonwealth make houses in the Northern Territory available for purchase by tenants. 
Have inordinate delays in making houses available had the result that many who wish to purchase will now not qualify for the Home Savings Grant. 
How many applications for the Home Savings Grant in the Northern Territory were received between 1975 and 1978. 
What is the level of home ownership in the Northern Territory. 
What is the anticipated number of applications for Home Savings Grants, given that the lowest priced housing in the Northern Territory, that is. Housing Commission Homes, is sold for prices in excess of $40,000. 
Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly- 


 - Senator Button, you are in continuation. 
I seek an opportunity on the adjournment debate to raise a few comments on the topic of the reunification of Timorese families. I want to draw particular attention to a specific instance which will highlight what seems to be a grey area in the Government's policy. I draw attention to the situation where the wife might be the breadwinner. 1 instance the case of the Tchia family in Timor. The father is 66, the mother is 42 and there are four children in Timor of the ages of 7, 10, 16 and 22. The family was sponsored by a daughter in Darwin, an Australian resident of long standing. She put forward her application to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the reply came back, firstly, that the father was eligible because of his age and, secondly, that the mother and children were not eligible, the mother because of her age. The total request for sponsorship was denied by the Department as it believed that the father should not leave Timor and leave his family behind. I will not comment on the Department's making a decision. My view would be that if the father were eligible, that would be a decision which the family would have to make. My comments will be directed briefly to the appropriateness of the decision to deny entry to the whole family. 
We do not know what the situation is in Timor at present. Unfortunately we cannot know because we are not allowed to go and have a look. As late as today my latest request to visit Timor has been denied. I do not know what the Indonesians have to hide or what they do not want us to see, but they are certainly not going to let us in. I will speak more about that later; it is not appropriate for debate tonight. As I say, we do not know the situation in Timor, but we can assume and our suppositions can be supported by the evidence we get from information coming out, from people who come out or from letters that are sent out. We can assume that it would not be easy for a wife in Timor to take on the role of breadwinner. I am not suggesting for a moment that the father is falling down on his job, but in our eyes a man of 66 is most likely getting past the age when he is able adequately to support his family. 
The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  you,  Mr President,  and honourable senators would know that the interim measure adopted in these cases- what might be almost a stop-gap measure- is for Australian members of a family to send money to their families, whether it be to Timor, Malaysia or elsewhere. They see the extended family unit- certainly this family is not an extended family- as being the responsibility of those members of the family who have sufficient capital to assist. But a more long-term and, I would think, more appropriate solution has been suggested to the Department by the sponsors. To make this suggestion meaningful I should perhaps explain that the sponsor, who honourable senators will recall is the daughter who is married to an Australian, has a take-away food business specialising in Chinese and Timorese food. She has accommodation for the family and is prepared to accept responsibility for all six members of the family. There are statutory declarations to testify to this. 
The proposal put forward by the sponsor, was, firstly, that the family should come to Australia to be accommodated by the daughter in her own home; secondly, that the mother and the elder child could give assistance in the home and perhaps in the business; thirdly, that the father could make whatever contribution was appropriate for his age; and, fourthly, that the younger children should attend school. It seems to me that this proposal has certain advantages. The first is that the family would be reunited, as is its wish. Secondly, the members of the family in Timor would be allowed to leave that country, which again is their wish. Thirdly, the mother and the daughter, who is 22 years old, could have the dignity of contributing to their upkeep. I do not want to dwell on this because I think that honourable senators would understand the attitude of people who would want to contribute and who would not want to be- as they might regard- parasitical on their family, although of course the family would not see this in any sense. 
Another advantage would be that it would avoid the possibility of the family being stranded if the elderly father should pass away. Another advantage would be that the money that is being sent to Timor to sustain the family would stay in Australia and would be spent in Australia and build up consumer spending. The children would have the advantage of education in Australia and would eventually make their contributions, just as their fellow countrymen have made contributions in Australia which we all know are not insignificant. I do not think there is any need to dwell on the responsibility which many of us feel we should accept to assist the gallant Timorese who assisted us during World War II. The father of 66, who would have been 29 in 1942, could have been one of those who assisted us. I am not suggesting that he was because I do not have that information, but he was in the age bracket of those who could have assisted. 
I do not think that there is any need to remind the Senate, as we have done on other occasions, of the way in which we in Australia deserted the Timorese in their hour of need. That has been covered before. I simply ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to investigate the special case of the wife as the bread winner, as represented by the Tchia family. The Darwin office admits that that is a grey area. By following the guidelines it has to refuse permission for the mother and the children to come in. There seems to be two alternatives: The Minister either can use his discretion and allow the family in or, perhaps more appropriately, may wish to rule on this matter and to fill out the present guidelines to cover similar cases in the future. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
Because this area is of particular interest to me and the report is of special significance, I would like to make a few comments. I am pleased to see that when the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  wrote to the Commission and asked for some details on the arrangements for and the level of the provision of Commonwealth specific funding financial assistance for schools in the Northern Territory he had this to say: 
In providing this advice, the Commission should pay particular regard to any special features of education provision in the Territory which may bear on the appropriate form of Commonwealth financial assistance. 
I hope, because he made that request, that there will be some room for flexibility now that the report has been delivered. It is the first report of the Commission and one assumes that it will provide an opportunity for the Government to revise some of the recommendations made by the Commission. Since it is the first report it is very difficult to comment. It is difficult to see the effect of the Government guidelines on the Northern Territory situation. As the Minister has commented, the Northern Territory Government took over responsibility for education in the Northern Territory from 1 July. So it is possible for me to comment only on the general approach that the Commission has taken and also to highlight some of the special needs of the Northern Territory. As I have indicated in this place previously, education in the Northern Territory has special problems. These are related, firstly, to the sheer geographical size of the Northern Territory. We must consider not only the fact that the Northern Territory is big but also that the rather small population is spread out. There are two major centres and some smaller centres. Quite a number of people live in what we might call the rural areas of the Northern Territory. Because of this, there are a large number of small schools, and this has to be taken into account when making any recommendations or when revising any of the recommendations made by the Commission. 
Another significant factor which must be taken into account and one which the Minister is very conscious of is the high proportion of Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. These factors have been noted by the Commission and it is pleasing to see that it has done so. This is shown in a couple of broad areas. The Commission comments in the report on the need for more staff than would normally be required in a State situation; in other words, the staff-student ratio that the Commission might apply in a large State will not apply to the Northern Territory. It is pleasing to see that in some other areas too the ratios that are normally used when providing finance have not been applied. Also, the Commission has commented on the need for more specialist services. I commend it for that. I will have some comments to make later about the sort of services that will be made available and the way in which this might be done. We note in the report that in the interim period from 1 July to 31 December the Schools Commission recommends that there be no new programs. Apparently this has the agreement of the Northern Territory Department of Education so one cannot comment on it. I trust that because of the Federal Government funds which are available at the moment to assist the Northern Territory we will not see a diminution of the funds which will be available from 1 January to 30 June next year. 
In the capital grants program a locality allowance of 20 per cent is recommended when calculations are made about building. Accepting that the schools in the Northern Territory cost 1 8.9 per cent more than other places, this is a reasonable suggestion and I commend the Commission for it. It is a very sensible suggestion that we should have more money to build schools in the Northern Territory because of geographical isolation. It does cost more money to build in the Northern Territory, not necessarily in the major centres, but certainly in the outlying areas to which equipment and building staff have to be transported hundreds of miles. When the Government is making its decisions on how to apply capital finance I hope it will remember the conditions of some of the Aboriginal schools. The Minister will recall that when Labor was in office it set up a committee to investigate the quality of buildings in Aboriginal communities. 
The report which came out was an eye-opener to most Australian educationists. Some good progress was made in the short time that Labor was in office. Had it stayed in office no doubt the goals which it set itself would have been achieved. As we know, it was not given this opportunity. I suggest to the Minister that when he is considering the recommendations of the Commission in this area he might institute another study, much smaller, of course, to follow up and see what is needed out in the Aboriginal communities. I have spoken before in this place of the inappropriate designs so often devised for Aboriginal schools and other places such as hospitals and homes. I hope that the Minister, when looking at the need for school buildings in Aboriginal communities, will take into account the climate of the area, the needs of the Aboriginal people, the wishes of the Aboriginal people and the programs which are offered by the Department. 
In the migrant education program we note that there is a high proportion of migrant children. Together with large numbers of migrant children we also have a wide range of ethnic groups even though some of them may contain only small numbers. Many of the children who attend school in the Northern Territory do so with no knowledge of English. I commend the intersystemic approach which the Commission has recommended here. It seems to me that if the Government follows this approach it will utilise in the best way possible the scarce resources available. In that regard I am not too sure that the amount of $106,000 which is recommended will be enough, given the unique situation of the Northern Territory. Again, the State comparisons do not apply and I would ask the Minister whether he will have a look at that area too. 
I again commend the report for the nonapplication of state criteria for the disadvantaged schools program. The Commission has recommended a maximum enrolment of 2,500 children who can be assisted. Given the situation in the Northern Territory, that figure is too low. I do not need to reiterate the problems of the Northern Territory; I have done that already, as have others. I am not at all happy with a figure of 2,500 pupils; I do not believe that it is enough. People in the Northern Territory have said to me that the majority of the children in the system in the Northern Territory are disadvantaged. I ask the Minister to look at that. I hope that he will review that figure and make more money available. 
I move to the area of special education, which was commented on by the Commission. A good special services structure operates in the Northern Territory. I say that in all modesty because I set it up. But I am pleased to see support in the Commission for the concept of, whenever possible, educating children in the classroom. I feel it is unfortunate that the Commission did not feel moved to comment on the fact that we still have two special schools in the Northern Territory and to make some recommendations on whether they should continue. I detect a movement back to children being enrolled in special schools. I deplore that movement. I hope that the Commission will follow the lead of people overseas and suggest that, whenever possible, we should educate children in the classroom. I make a strong recommendation to the Minister that next time he sets out his instructions for the Commission he asks it to look at the area of special education. 
I also find it most disturbing that no mention is made in the recommendations of the Commission for any money to be allocated for the education of children from birth to pre-school age. Certainly pre-schools are mentioned and some allowance is made for them. But I stress, as I and others have done in this place before, that if we plan to do anything for handicapped children education must start immediately after birth. We must work from the cradle onwards. That applies in most cases. I commend strongly to the Minister that he look at that area. It is one in which we in the Northern Territory could lead Australia. To do that would appear to be beyond the resources of the Northern Territory Government. I guess that that is understandable with a fledgling government such as ours. But I make a plea to the Minister to consider allocating special funds outside the normal special funds to enable a program to go ahead in that area. It is unfortunate that in the States, with their more established departments, that has not been done. So the Minister has an opportunity to give the lead in this area, as I have invited him to do on other occasions. He could have given the lead in a number of areas. I think I can assure him that the Territory Minister would be only too happy to see that done; he would not see it as Federal Government interference in what is happening in the Northern Territory. 
The Commonwealth has assisted nongovernment schools. Whilst many people do not support the concept of assistance for nongovernment schools, this is not the place for me to discuss it. The Government has a view regarding this matter and it is providing assistance. It is good to see that assistance is being given to the smaller schools. I commend particularly the recommendation on the Marrara Christian School. It is a brave venture, with dedicated staff and parents. They could do with the assistance recommended in the report. The Commission has agreed that funds are small in the disadvantaged area of non-government schools. Perhaps the Minister might look again at the possibility of intersystemic assistance there. Again, it might be the best way to use the limited resources available. An allocation of $21,000 has been recommended for the multi-cultural program. That figure is disappointing. One would have hoped that the Government could have seen it as an opportunity to assist a most exciting program. 
The final area I wish to comment on is that of the education centres. The Minister will accept the need for those centres. Like his predecessor, he has taken a great interest in education in the Northern Territory and has shown particular interest in Aboriginal education. I commend him for that. The Commissioners recommended that one centre should be established. I think that is unfortunate. In view of the size of the Northern Territory, which has two quite clear areas- so clear in fact that the Northern Territory Department has divided it into two separate regions, the northern and the southern- I would hope that the Minister could find money somewhere for a centre at Alice Springs. I am assuming, as probably will happen, that the major, No. 1 , centre will be established in Darwin. I hope that it will not be an annexe of the Darwin centre. It might perhaps be a smaller one, but certainly it should provide the services which that sort of centre can provide for teachers who are operating in the centre of Australia. The Minister will know from his experience, from his travels in the Northern Territory, that many of the teachers in the centre will be dealing with Aboriginal children, so they can do with a lot of the help which that sort of centre can give. 
The Commission made two recommendations on administrative arrangements. It suggested the setting up of two committees. That seems commendable. I hope that the Minister will support that recommendation. As I said in my opening comments, from the short time that I have had to look at the report- I have not been able to give it any great study, but I look forward to being able to do so at a later time- I commend it to the Minister and seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted, debate adjourned. 
I want to speak tonight on the broad topic of Australian aid to East Timor. Because of the lateness of the hour, I will be brief and just mention the facts of the situation. The reason 1 am seeking the indulgence of the Senate tonight rather than leaving this matter for some other time is that a number of appeals are being mounted for assistance to be given to East Timor. I refer to the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on 22 August when he said that $200,000 in aid was to be given by the Government of Australia to the people of East Timor, bringing to $950,000 the total contribution of Australia to that area. I commend the Government for that. There is no doubt that the aid is needed. 
The Australian Council for Overseas Aid, in its report of July of this year, opened with this sentence: 
East Timor's claim on the attention and resources of enlightened aid development agencies is beyond dispute. 
Church authorities in East Timor- basically the Roman Catholic Church-say that 300,000 persons have been displaced because of the upheavals in East Timor since 1975. The Indonesian Red Cross told World Vision in 1978 that there were 165,839 Timorese people in refugee camps in East Timor or, as it would say, in Indonesia. The ACFOA report quotes an Australian Broadcasting Commission report of July 1979 as saying that 200,000 people had come down from the hills and other places into the refugee centres and that these people were suffering from malaria, asthmatic disorders and malnutrition. Aid has been sent by the Australian and the New Zealand governments and others and by agencies, but there are some problems associated with this aid. The report of the Australian Council for Overseas Aid summarises the points in this order: 
All aid has gone to areas under Indonesian control only. 
Indonesia is very reluctant to admit foreigners. When they have been their visit has been brief and restricted. 
All the aid has been sought and given for emergency relief, not for production and reconstruction. 
No thorough independent assessment of the needs, no supervision of distribution, no implementation of an autonomous programme, and no evaluation of the Indonesian Government's aid programme, have taken place. 
All the grants have made to the Indonesian Red Cross for its programme. 
The effectiveness of the Indonesian Red Cross in distributing aid has been called into some question. The Australian organisation has said this of its colleagues in Indonesia: 
They- 
The Indonesian Red Cross-  certainly have the capacity to mount an effective disaster relief operation, but whether they have been permitted to in East Timor I do not know. 
I thank  Senator Baume  for that contribution. There have been many critics. Amnesty International, to which  Senator Baume  referred, is one of them. I will refer to some others which are quoted in the report of the Australian Council for Overseas Aid. Many reports claim that the problem is one of distribution in one way or another. There appears this quotation: 
As a matter of fact, the Government's aid is not lacking in quantity, but in the management of its distribution. 
There was some complaint about the fact that not enough emergency aid had been available when required. I quote again as follows: 
For example, an IRC truck arrived at Remexio while the Foreign Ambassadors were there in September 1978. As people rushed to receive the first clothes and nutritious food they had seen for months, home guardsmen using sticks and stones tried to form them into queues. Even so there were only enough supplies for half of them. 
This sort of thing continues to happen. Another report states: 
For example, in March 1 979, 5 tons of corn were delivered to Maubisse where more than 6,000 people had been waiting for it for five weeks. 
The report which tells of this incident, commented: 'If there is any food at all (for very hungry and sick new arrivals), it is usually very little and comes very late. Which makes the whole aid programme actually meaningless. ' 
There are other problems which have been said to be distribution problems but they are something else. There are widespread charges of administrative corruption, that is, aid intended for the relief of suffering Timorese is being misappropriated and used for other purposes by the Indonesian administration, that is, the Army, the Indonesian Red Cross and the regional government. I quote further from the report as follows: 
There is help from everywhere but what happens to it is a mystery. Indonesia is a nation of all kinds of robbers and parasites. 
Another quotation states: 
There is massive corruption associated with aid. 
Another quotation states: 
At Maubisse in February 1 979 an average of 1 50 people a day came for treatment to the poorly stocked Government Health Centre whilst 'at the same time there were medicines for sale in the Chinese shop (at prices) people could not afford to pay'. 
The same applies in Dili, according to the report, which states: 
Goods from the Australian Government chartered barge,  Alanna Fay  which arrived in Dili in January 1979, and medicines flown in from New Zealand were on sale at . . . Dili and another shop. 
The Polyclinic in Dili is notoriously short of medicines, while shops which sell both medicine and ordinary goods, are well stocked with medicines selling at prices few can afford. 
Aid supplies stored in the godown (warehouse) in Dili are being sold by the Indonesian army and IRC direct to the people or to Chinese and Timorese merchants. 
The Australian Government has indicated in the statements that it has made that it is quite happy with the Indonesian Government's distribution of aid. The reports suggest that there are many reasons for this. I quote from the introductory letter written by the compiler of the report as follows: 
Although not covered in this report, Aid agencies wishing to reveal the situation in East Timor today may find themselves in conflict with the Australian Government which, since the early days of the Indonesian invasion, has acted to avoid criticism of Indonesian actions in East Timor. Australian investment in Indonesia, Australian interests in seabed resources south of Timor, American and Australian financial and military aid and public support of the current Indonesian military government, which form the basis of the Australian-Indonesian relationship', are clear barriers to any change in attitude or actions by the Australian Government in relation to East Timor. 
Whilst the Government may be happy, many people are not. This is the reason I have raised this matter tonight. I think that this unhappiness which people have may result in a reluctance to give any sort of reasonable response to appeals that may come from various areas- the Red Cross and others. They may be reluctant to send money or aid unless it is sent through the churches, because whilst Indonesia is not particularly happy with the Catholic Church 's handling of aid, it is prepared to let it do it. No doubt it has its own reasons for this which are fairly obvious. 
It is clear that, whilst the International Red Cross has been involved in the operation which  the $200,000 has gone to support, there is not enough staff to give any decent supervision. There are three or four members of the International Red Cross at present in Indonesia. Obviously it would be quite impossible for them to do any real job of supervision. So I would put to the Senate that the Australian Government ought to make clear to Indonesia, through the contacts which it has through the Department of Foreign Affairs, firstly that Australia has a deep concern for the plight and suffering of the Timorese people. I think that this ought to be transmitted to the Indonesians to let them know what the people in Australia really feel. I have no doubt that there is a wave of feeling and sympathy towards1 the people in East Timor. No doubt this feeling would be strengthened if we were able to get more information to provide dramatic illustrations about these 300,000 people who are malnourished, sick and dying. 
The Government ought to make known to the Indonesian Government our desire to be involved in relief work, not simply to provide aid through money and materials. It ought to make some impression on the Indonesian Government of the necessity for foreign-aid workers to be present while the supplies are being distributed and the aid is being handed out. This will help to overcome any fears that the people of Australia may have that the material is not going to the most needy but is being siphoned off into blackmarket operations. The last point that the Government ought to press on the Indonesian Government is the desirability of parliamentarians being allowed to visit East Timor to see for themselves the problems that exist there, to watch the work that is being done by both the Indonesian Government and the Indonesian Red Cross and to see what else is needed. Surely, if nothing else, this would be a wonderful exercise in public relations. Yet for some reason the Indonesian Government is not prepared to let us go. I have here a letter dated 1 August which was written to me by the Indonesian Consul in Darwin. It states, inter alia: 
At the present moment, the people of East Timor being actively carrying out the development in all fields, among of them education and infra-structure are the first priority, which quite far behind with the other Indonesian provinces, due to the longer period of the colonization in East Timor than other Indonesian territories. 
In implementing the development actively, the Local Government and the people of East Timor need concentration, unity of opinion and unity of firm will, so they do hope not being disturbed by any foreign conceptions or advice, which are generally causing disruption of unity of opinion and unity of firm will, which they have successfully kept during this time. 
The Local Government and the people of East Timor, therefore, wish the central Governmet in Jakarta, not to let foreigners visit East Timor for the time being, during the first stage of the developments are still undergoing. 
With respect, I must question whether that statement by the Consul really represents the view of the people of East Timor. I have a great deal of contact with people coming in to Darwin. As honourable senators will be well aware, many of the people in Darwin have relatives in East Timor and information comes to us by letter and in other ways. Much as I do not like to do so, I must question whether the Consul is really representing the views of the people of East Timor. It should not be difficult for us, with our resources, to find out whether that is so. In view of the lateness of the hour I do not want to prolong the discussion, but I make the final point that support for Timor has been expressed on both sides of this chamber. All of us, particularly those who have been involved, who have visited and who have known people from East Timor, want to help. We want to get behind the appeals which are being made by the Red Cross and others, and give them our full support. But we do need an assurance that the aid that will go to East Timor will go to the people who need it. Therefore, I ask very sincerely that the Government again consider its attitude to East Timor and perhaps see what can be done through diplomatic channels in this matter. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Have there been discussions between his Government and the Government of the Northern Territory concerning the role of the Australian Electoral Office in the conduct of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly elections? If there have been discussions, could the Minister indicate the outcome of them? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Under self-government in the Northern Territory, are travelling expenses and accommodation costs available to people who are required to travel interstate or intrastate for treatment? If these costs are paid, who has the responsibility to organise and meet them- the Northern Territory Government or the Federal Government? Can the Minister also indicate which government has responsibility for advertising the availability of any assistance? 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
Did (a) the Draft Environmental Impact Statement prepared by Pancontinental for its Jabiluka project indicate that the open cut method of mining would be employed: and 
the final statement indicate underground mining; if so, why has the later statement not been considered as a draft, and public discussion invited, in view of the dangers of making such major changes without giving an opportunity for public debate. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that there is a six months delay in handling family allowance files in the Darwin Office of her Department? Are family allowance files for the Alice Springs area handled by the Darwin office? Are staff ceilings preventing the recruitment of adequate staff for both the Darwin and the Alice Springs offices? What action is being planned to ensure that those people who are entitled to receive the family allowance receive it on the due date? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 30 August 1 979: 
When will the Minister answer the letter sent to her by the Darwin and Districts Spastic Association, concerning reductions in the grants to handicapped persons schemes and the amount the Association is likely to receive Tor 1 979-80, so the Association can budget its resources for the year. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the Senate take note of the Report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on Special Assistance for the Northern Territory 1979, tabled in the Senate on 9 October 1979. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Science and the Environment been drawn to the statements made by the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory at the National Press Club yesterday where he criticised the National Parks and Wildlife Service's active administration of the Northern Territory's two main national parks and described it as pouring taxpayers' money down the drain'? Does the Minister believe that this is a fair description of the work done by the Service? What action does the Minister propose to take to clarify the matter? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs: Is it a fact that spouses of American personnel based at Pine Gap near Alice Springs take employment in that town? If this is a fact, would it not seem inappropriate when there is such a high level of unemployment in the Northern Territory? Would the Minister consider taking steps to see that American nationals do not take positions which could be filled by Australians? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether it is a fact that her Department in Darwin is so short of office space that the interviewing rooms have been removed to provide greater counter space? Is it a fact that clients no longer have privacy and can be overheard by others who are waiting for an interview? If these are facts, what steps are being taken to resolve this untenable situation? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Have discussions been held between his Government and the Northern Territory Government on the possible sale of the Territory airline Connair Pty Ltd? What steps have been taken to ensure that the people of the Northern Territory, particularly those in the remote areas, will enjoy a reliable air service? The Minister will appreciate that to be viable a Northern Territory air service must have some of the traffic at present carried by the two major airlines and enjoy some protection from illegal charter operators. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 4 June 1979: 
1 ) Has there been great criticism of the range of Australian Broadcasting Commission radio stations in the Northern Territory. 
Did the Minister indicate, during a visit to the Northern Territory in early 1979, that steps would be taken to upgrade the regional stations. 
When will the people of the outback be able to hear ABC radio, either on upgraded broadcast band or on the short wave band promised for the Territory. 
On behalf of  Senator Evans,  I present the following petition from 135 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act 1977 should immediately be repealed because: 
It provides unfettered power to Ministers to suspend, stand-down and dismiss Commonwealth Government employees and places them in a markedly disadvantageous position as compared with all other Australian workers. 
Its use places Commonwealth Government employees in direct conflict with the Government as it circumvents the arbitration tribunals and denies appeal rights. 
Its use will exacerbate industrial disputes and inflame industrial relations in the Commonwealth area of employment. 
The International Labour Organisation has condemned the Provisions of the Act as being incompatible with the rights of organised labour in a free society. and your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It refers to the quarantine inspection of Taiwanese fishing boats licensed to fish in Australian waters. I understand that approximately 160 boats will require inspection in the near future. Will the Minister indicate what additional staff have been recruited for this purpose to ensure that levels of other inspections are not lowered? 
In the second reading speech introducing the Prices Justification Bill in 1 973 the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  said: 
It will be apparent that the scheme provided for in this Bill is one of price justification, as distinct from a scheme of price control. Companies will be required to justify their prices and price increases in the eyes of the public. 
I was very pleased to hear  Senator Archer,  when speaking from the other side of the chamber, also mention what  Mr Crean  had said at that time, but unfortunately in mentioning it he forgot to read it. Certainly, he then went on to say: If you want price control, do so and so', assuming that  Mr Crean  in those times and we at present want this price control. The Bill sought price justification, and price justification is being spoken about at present. Earlier in his speech  Mr Crean  said: 
In introducing this Bill the Government is certainly not pretending that some simple solution has been revealed to it. We have, it is true, learned a good deal from experiences elsewhere, and one of the most obvious lessons is that policies to contain inflation must be broad and multi-pronged. It is in this context that the present Bill must be viewed. It alone does not constitute a policy for the control of inflation. It is but one element- a very important element- in a broader strategy. 
The Bill was designed to assist in the control of inflation. That was a problem then and it is a problem now; and the PJT could be effective now if it were used in the right way. I repeat: Despite what the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  had to say, the Treasurer at that time made it clear and we at this time make it clear that the PJT is one element in the strategy working to this end. It is part of a total approach and it cannot be seen in isolation. 
Let us ask then whether the PJT was effective. We can answer this question only in very general terms. We can use those general terms almost as a sort of argument in favour of the PJT at present. From an equity viewpoint the PJT has provided the necessary institutional complement to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. If we want wages justification, we would see a natural corollary in prices justification. The PJT has contributed to reducing inflation by reducing inflationary expectations and thereby moderating the wage-price cycle. Economists speak of this psychological approach, these psychological factors, which affect the behaviour of the market. To the extent that inflation is worsened by firms exploiting market power, the PJT has reduced inflation by checking this. It is a brake on firms which have a virtual monopoly or which, by reason of size, can control the market. It has been effective also in moderating union attitudes. It was a key element in the successful introduction of wage indexation. 
One cannot help but ask whether that is perhaps one of the reasons that the Government is opposed to the PJT's operating effectively. To the extent that prices have been reduced in certain key industries which are traditional wage leaders, the overall level of wages is lower than it would otherwise have been. The PJT has contributed to an increased awareness by companies of the need to monitor costs. It has induced companies to raise productivity rather than to raise prices. Combined with the Trade Practices Commission and the Industries Assistance Commission, it provides a technique for controlling problems associated with market imperfections. 
What has been the Government's attitude to the PJT? This has been hinted at in some way by the brief legislative history referred to by my colleague. My colleague also referred earlier to the much publicised promise made by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  while in Opposition that he was going to abolish the Tribunal. Of course, this promise went the way of all other promises. The attitude of the Government can be described only as a series of deliberate attempts to wind down the full time and continuous price justification role of the Tribunal. What evidence have we got of this? We must look at the. action government has taken because, after all. governments will be judged not by what they say they do but by what they do. There is no doubt that the 1976 amendments substantially modified the nature of the Tribunal's role and considerably reduced the number of firms subject u&gt; the surveillance of the Tribunal. This was di,ne by lifting the turnover limit and making it easier for companies to avoid it, to work through subsidiaries and to use other techniques. 
The staff cuts have also been referred to by an earlier  speaker.  The Attorney-General said that the staff cuts were meant to reduce the PJT to an elitist, specialist body. One wonders whether that wits really the effect. It would seem that the effect was to render the PJT ineffective. When  Mr Justice  Williams retired it took 16 months for a replacement to be put in as  chairman.  Of course, this brought about staff uncertainty. There was further staff uncertainty over whether the Tribunal was to be located in Melbourne or in Canberra. Obviously staff uncertainty in this situation ieds to lower morale and lower efficiency. Obviously if one wishes to demolish an institution one cuts its staff to the point where it is no longer effective and then simply says: 'It is not effective; we must get rid of it'. If we look around we will see that the present Government has used that technique in a number of areas. 
Attention has been drawn to the undermining of the morale of the Tribunal's members by the PJT bashing in the Colgate-Palmolive case. One might also look at the situation of the Elder 
Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd challenge over woolbroking charges last year. For the first time in the PJT's history a firm failed to comply with the finding of a PJT inquiry. For a long time Australian wool growing organisations had been discontented at the inefficient and inequitable charges levied on them by wool brokers. Despite the clear recommendations of the Tribunal, the responsible Minister did nothing to try to get the Elder Smith company to lower its charges. 
We claim that the emasculation of the PJT has rendered it ineffective and my colleagues who have spoken already have given examples of this. We find further evidence of this in the large increases in the consumer price index this year. In the June quarter there was a large increase. In commenting on this  Mr Chris  Hurford, the shadow Minister for Industry and Commerce, said: 
Not only has the Fraser Government fuelled inflation with its oil and health policies, it has also failed to take action to moderate food price increases. The effectiveness of the current PJT inquiry into processed food prices has been undermined, and the recommendations of the PJT's report into beef marketing have been shelved. The Government has prevented the PJT from undertaking a comprehensive probe unto food prices. The Tribunal has been obliged to concentrate mainly on food processing- that is, manufacturingrather than being permitted to undertake a wider inquiry into all aspects of food production and marketing, from farm gate to final consumer. 
Because we are often asked, when we make some comments in so-called criticism of the Government, to say what we will do, let me indicate quite clearly in the time left to me what the Australian Labor Party's attitude will be towards the PJT as shown in our policy. I will then go through some of the actions which a Labor government will take. I say initially that the attitude towards the PJT will be based on the need for price justification. This has been outlined already. The policy of the Australian Labor Party says, inter alia: 
On the basis of the consumer goods inquiry, further strengthen, co-ordinate and standardise the workings of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission to best serve the interests of the consumers. 
Re-organise the Prices Justification Tribunal in the interests of consumers and encourage it to- 
a ) initiate investigations; 
b ) establish its role as a prices monitor and regulator; 
investigate excessive retail prices; and 
regulate the inclusion of excessive packaging or advertising costs in prices. 
There is the policy. Briefly, what would we do? Firstly, we would restore notification procedures for all companies with a turnover greater than $30m. This is the comment referred to by the Attorney-General. This will have two effects. Firstly, it will give valuable information to the 
Government and to its advisers on price structuring. In the longer term there will be a dampening down of price rises as companies see that they must justify price rises on reasonable grounds. The second action that we will take for the Prices Justification Tribunal is to restore immediately the staffing to the level necessary to enable the Tribunal to function effectively. That may not be as high as it was previously; it may be higher than it was previously. But certainly we will look at the situation and give the Tribunal the staff necessary to carry out its job and not cut its staff, as has been done at present, to render it ineffective and to lower morale. 
We will revise all the legislative measures enacted by the Fraser Government, with the exception of the surveillance role to which attention was drawn in the 1976 amendments. In other words, we will look at the measures designed to protect business and which will render the PJT ineffective. We will put special emphasis on requiring companies to justify the price rises they seek, due to packaging and advertising costs and the wasteful use of resources. My colleague,  Senator Gietzelt,  spoke of a firm putting out the same product, or a variation of the same product, with different brand names. Without mentioning the name of the company, he referred to the soap industry. We will use the PJT, in conjunction with the Industries Assistance Commission and the Trade Practices Commission, as a tool for influencing industrial structure. At the same time, we will increase the consumer protection aspects of the PJT. 
In the time at our disposal we have looked at the history of the PJT, indicating the role envisaged for it by the Australian Labor Party. We have looked at attempts made by the Fraser Government to emasculate the PJT. We have looked at the effects of that emasculation on the economy, and we have looked at the action which Labor will take when returned to office to revitalise the PJT to enable it to function effectively. Before I conclude my speech, I am pleased to have the opportunity to comment on one or two of the points raised by the Attorney-General. He opened his remarks by saying that  Senator Gietzelt  had made a socialist speech. I would find it rather extraordinary if  Senator Gietzelt,  sitting as he does on this side of the chamber, were to make anything but a socialist speech. We got what we expected. By the same token, we got what we expected from the other side of the chamber. We got the tired old arguments from the Attorney-General, with the most extraordinary logic for a man who has been trained in the legal profession. 
I have to make the point also, although it has been made in the speech, that Labor never suggested that the PJT would be the only measure; it was part of a total policy, part of an economic strategy introduced by Labor to control inflation. The Attorney-General talked also about the number of cases brought before the PJT, but he did not suggest to us that one-third of those cases were withdrawn because the companies concerned felt at the time that they could not justify their prices, so they left their prices at the existing level. Then we heard a most extraordinary piece of logic and argument, namely, that in some unusual way the high inflation rates had been caused by the PJT. A great deal of evidence was brought forward to show that, simply because the inflation rate grew at a particular time and the PJT was operating at that time, ipso facto, one caused the other. I think that the AttorneyGeneral ought to go back to his first lesson in logic. 
We ought to look also at some of the comments made by the Government when trying to explain away the present situation of increasing inflation. We might look to the Prime Minister, who said to us: 'But we must remember that factors overseas affect our inflation rate'. We can go back now and assure the Prime Minister, on the logic given to us by the Attorney-General today, that this is not a fact, that the only thing that affects the inflation rate is the existence of the PJT. The Attorney-General sees a role for the Prices Justification Tribunal. He does not make it clear what that role is. I do not know whether he has told the members of the Tribunal what their role is. But the Attorney-General sees a minor role for the PJT and it will be staffed by experts. Perhaps the final speaker in this debate will elucidate for us what that role is and which of the people who are there at the present time will be regarded as specialists and who will be redundant. 

 Senator Archer said that he wondered why we were discussing this matter when we knew so little about it. He offered to sit down, but he did not carry out that offer. He went on to say that he had studied the works of  Mr Crean  and felt himself to be an authority; so he went ahead and made some statements. He gave us a history lesson on what happened in the days of the Labor Government. He pointed out that at that time there were not many Government supporters in the Senate. As my colleague,  Senator Gietzelt,  commented, when the Government wants a measure to be pushed through the Parliament it does not put up many Government members to speak in the debate, just as, if we had the numbers that the Government parties have, we would put up all the speakers we could to try to disturb the Government's legislative program- a process at which the Government parties became very adept.  Senator Archer  finished with the rather extaordinary statement: If it is price control you want . . .', which showed that he had not gained a great deal from his study of  Mr Crean  's work. I think we have clearly demonstrated the failure of the Government to use the Prices Justification Tribunal to control rising prices. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. In his Press release on 13 November the Minister for Trade and Resources said: 
Further discussions with the Northern Territory are being arranged to progress a range of matters in relation to the Jabiru township and Kakadu National Park. 
Will the Minister indicate what these matters are and also let the Senate know whether the Northern Land Council will be a party to the discussions? 
-The Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill 1 979 is the latest in a number of Bills to amend the Aboriginal Land Rights Act. Honourable senators will recall that the principal Act had a number of amendments on its presentation, by both Government and Opposition. This amending Bill today has a number of amendments as well. The main amendments were outlined by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  in his Press statement when he said: 
The most significant amendment clarifies the provisions regarding the ownership of minerals on Aboriginal land. 
He continued:   a number of other amendments of an administrative nature would also be introduced. 
At the same time as the Minister indicated his approach to this Bill, he spoke at the Wesley Church in Perth and indicated his attitude towards land rights generally and the Aboriginal situation. I would like to quote a brief part of that address at the Wesley Church. The Minister said: 
My experience as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs has already brought home to me the enormous range of problems facing Australia's 800 or more Aboriginal communities- and those numerous families who live in urban areas but cannot be identified as members of a particular community. The problems have familiar namespoverty, unemployment, infant mortality, alcohol abuse. Familiar names- but quite different in the intensity with which they bear down on Aboriginals. 
So offensive is this state of disadvantage to sensitive Australians, that many of them seek dramatic solutions by some decisive government actions, which will cause immediate and lasting changes for the better. Land rights, compensation for past wrongs, economic assistance at a given level, a multicultural Australia, are presented as issues for such action. They are all legitimate policy objectives. 
Towards the end of his speech he stated: 
As I said at the beginning, the Churches and the Government have much in common in the struggle we are waging to help Aboriginals help themselves. We share common objectives. We believe self-management is a key policy. We believe in land rights. We believe that there should be a government response to past dispossession and dispersal. We believe that Aboriginal culture should be respected and preserved, and that Aboriginals should have a choice of lifestyle. We know that there is much to be done in presenting these issues sympathetically to the Australian people. 
As recently as a couple of weeks ago- one has to keep updating these notes; they have been updated several times since the Bill was first introduced- it was reported: 
In Darwin this week he- 
That is the Minister-  assured the principles allowing traditional owners rights to claim Aboriginal land would not be changed. 
But practical difficulties in the evolving legislation would be tackled. 
Of course, the Minister was referring to the setting up of the Rowland investigation. The Opposition has some amendments, which  Senator Gietzelt  has indicated. I want to comment on some particular concerns about the Bill itself. It might be appropriate if I deal with these under the clauses, as then I may avoid the Minister's criticisms that I am speaking beyond the scope of the Bill. Clause 3 of the Bill is to amend section 1 1 of the principal Act. That relates to the power of the Minister to accept or reject parts of a Land Commissioner's recommendation. Honourable senators will recall that in his second reading speech the Minister stated: 
The principal Act requires the Minister to make a decision with respect to any recommendations by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner concerning a land claim.  Mr Justice  Toohey, the present Commissioner, has expressed the view that the Minister has power to accept all or part of a Land Commissioner's recommendation. However, a legal opinion obtained by the Commonwealth has cast some doubt on whether the Minister does have this power under the Act as it now stands. This Bill will make it clear that the Minister does have the power to accept all or part of a recommendation. 
I find that rather disturbing. I accept that the Government has a responsibility to govern; we might almost use the term a 'mandate to govern'. In that respect it has the final responsibility. But surely this proposition is open to criticism. The Commissioner investigates and takes evidence from interested parties and from professional advisers. In effect, it is a full judicial inquiry because, after all, it is a requirement that the Commissioner be a judge of the court in Darwin. After these recommendations have been made, the Minister accepts the bits which suit. Of course, one has to ask: Suit whom? Is it to suit the supporters of his party, himself, the Aboriginal people or possibly- I am not suggesting this in this case- to suit not national interests but vested interests? I am sure that many people who go to court would like to be able to accept those parts of the judge's ruling that happen to please them. 
I make the point strongly that it is not as if the Aboriginal people have been spoilt by land claim findings. The Borroloola land claim was mentioned by an earlier speaker. I remind the Minister that at Centre Island, which is the land of the Rhumbirriya people, the claim was recognised by the judge as being Rhumbirriya land and they were recognised as the traditional owners, but the land was not granted. Why was it not granted? It was not granted because Mt Isa Mines Ltd wanted the land as a berth, and it wanted access to that berth. In regard to the 
North Island claim- more Rhumbirriya landthe claim that the Rhumbirriyas are the traditional owners was recognised but the land was not granted because a prawning company wanted it as a base for its operations. The claim for Borroloola common was recognised and part of the common was granted. As I mentioned at the time when this matter was discussed in the Senate, a corridor one kilometre wide was left right through the middle of the common. This was to provide Mt Isa Mines Ltd with a road, power lines and railway lines if necessary. It would seem to the casual observer that business interests were paramount there, not the interests of the Aboriginal people. 
I do not think the Minister need fear that he needs to protect business. I believe that it is the Aboriginal people who need protection. We must beware of going back to that situation where we give Aboriginal people the bits that nobody else happens to want. In all fairness, I am sure that this is not the Minister's view. The statements which he has made in this place and outside it do not reconcile with any view that we will give Aboriginal people the bits that we do not want. But, the Opposition does have an objection to the proposition that the Minister can simply select those parts or sections of a judge's recommendations which happen to suit him, and reject the others. If the Commissioner's recommendations are not to be accepted, surely good reason should be given; the matter should be introduced into this place or into the other place and then the Parliament can be given the opportunity to debate the matter. As I said during the Senate's discussion on the Borroloola land claim, justice must not only be done but be seen to be done. The Commissioner's role is quite clear; he is to identify the traditional owners of unalienated Crown land and then set up trusts. Surely his role is not to anticipate the needs of mining companies. If the land belongs to Aboriginal people let it be granted and then if mining or prawning companies or any other groups want to make use of this land, they can make arrangements with the owners of the land, in the same way as they would do anywhere else. The machinery for this exists in the principal Act; I believe that it ought to be followed. 
I now turn to clause 5 of the amending Bill. There is also some reference to clauses 10 and 12, but clause 5 is the major one. This is where reference is made to the use of royalty payments for administrative purposes. Reference is made to the Minister's power to direct payments out of the Aboriginal benefits trust account for the running of land councils. I remind honourable senators that under the Labor Government and under this Government the Aboriginal land councils were set up to serve the Aboriginal people- that is obviously so- but they were also set up to serve government and to provide a contact with the Aboriginal people, to be the group which would go out and get the information that government wanted to assist in the preparation of legislation and in trying to do those things which it claims it wishes to do for the Aboriginal people. The land councils are not government agencies, and I do not suggest that for a moment. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  seem to think that is so but it is not so. We might say that this clause indicates the difference of attitudes between the two parties which are debating this matter today. Labor saw the need for councils and it saw the need for them to be funded. Let us face it; these would not be the only organisations in Australia which are funded to do a job for the community. Groups are set up and funded by the Government. 
I refer to the speech made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in Wesley Church and to the situation described by him- the problems of unemployment, the need for economic enterprises, the unsuitability of most areas for development and so on- all of which need money. There is no doubt about that; the proposition is accepted. They need a lot of money. My suggestion is that the money which is collected and put into the trust account could be put to better use than administration. It could be put towards overcoming some of those problems which the Minister outlined in his address. If this is taken to the obvious extreme- to absurdium, as the lawyers would say- this sort of philosophy would suggest that everything gets paid for out of the royaltieshealth, education, welfare, legal aid and the whole lot. Everything could come out of royalties because it would be for the benefit of the Aboriginal people. Of course, there are some people in the community who put this point of view. They suggest that this is exactly what should be done with the money. I remind the Senate that I do not believe that this is the view of the Government, since it has not been expressed this way, and it is certainly not the view on this side of the House. 
I also remind the Senate that when the agreements were made on the quantum of royalties there was no suggestion that this account would be used for administration. The suggestion was that the Government would pay for that. Little enough is given, and that is for distribution to Aboriginal people by Aboriginal people. The money needs to be in compensation for what the recent Mereenie oil lease discussions called detrimental effects such as disturbance of spiritual links with the land, deprivation of possession, damage to the land surface, impeding of right of way and impact on surrounding land '. 
-That is not the point I made. I said that little enough money is given. I am trying to put the case that we use all the money that is collected for the alleviation of these sorts of problems and not for administration. I am not discussing the quantum of the royalties. 
-That is the point I am making. I also have a concern about possible ministerial interference; that is, government interference. We are advised at all times to take the extreme view of the situation. We have no doubt that this Minister would not interfere. His qualities have been lauded this afternoon, as his praises have been sung. But what about a less enlightened Minister? The legislation we have must be tight enough to safeguard Aboriginal interests. 
I turn now to clause 6. This is the clause to which  Senator Gietzelt  will move an amendment during the Committee stage to replace 'the Minister' by 'the Parliament'. Of course, we accept the need for a report. But we also accept the proposition that this report needs to be studied and debated. I find it surprising that the Minister, who has been so eloquent about the role of parliament and so critical about the dangers of rule by the Executive, could have this provision in his Bill. Could it be that his translation to the front bench from one seat behind has somehow changed him? 
I am tempted to draw some Shakespearian allusions. I am assured by my colleagues and by the gentleman behind me, who has a lot of experience in these matters, that one does not change by becoming a Minister or by not being a Minister and being something else.  Senator Gietzelt  will cover clause 6 in greater depth. 
I refer now to clause 7 which substitutes the Administrator of the Northern Territory' wherever 'Minister for the Northern Territory' occurs. It is not that I do not want to see the Northern Territory involved; I certainly do. But what I would like to know- perhaps the Minister will explain this in his summation- is what involvement the Northern Territory is going to have. Let us face it, by 'Administrator' we mean the Northern Territory Government. What is it going to do? What involvement is it going to have? We know that the present Government of the Northern Territory is sympathetic to mining interests, to mining companies, to the chambers of industry and so on. I wonder what the attitude of these people is. I quote from the  Northern Territory News  as follows: 
The Territory Chamber of Mines has hit out at Aboriginal land councils, saying recognition of existing and future claims could jeopardise the future of the Territory. 
The chamber says it deplores the current trend of the land councils to make claims over mining, pastoral and other leasehold properties. 
These are the people to whom the Government in the Northern Territory responds. They are the ones who help to frame the Northern Territory Government's policy. The Government's own views on land rights have also been interpreted by the  Northern Territory News.  They appeared in the publication of 3 November, a short time ago. It stated: 
The CLP supports land rights, but when it comes to it the record raises doubts. 
Too often, there are other reasons for moving awayextensions of town boundaries (town planning), and Utopia High Court appeal (legal issues). 
There is also registration of Aboriginal land and roads, and added together the government has a real problem in convincing everyone it is not more interested in looking after white rather than black interests. 
That is the group of people which this Bill will bring in; that is the group which will have some involvement. I would like a statement from the Minister to indicate just what involvement the Northern Territory Government will have. In fact I go so far as to say that we seek some assurance that the Federal Government will accept responsibility, that it will bite the bullet. It is clearand it has been clear to the Minister since he spoke to the Aboriginal communities years ago in those distant days when he was a back bencher and a member of the committee that talked to Aboriginals about land rights- that the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory want the Federal Government to have the final say. The Minister knows that. I hope that the Minister will have the courage to face up to the Northern Territory Government and to the State governments whenever necessary. This may mean, unfortunately for him, that he will have to move outside political affiliations, although he may not have to do so if he waits long enough because in 12 months time he can oppose a Labor government in the Northern Territory. Certainly his colleagues in the Northern Territory do this sort of thing; they do attack. I have a quotation here which shows that they certainly move outside political affiliations. They make a practice of seeking political gain by attacking Canberra. The present Commonwealth Government comes under more attack from colleagues in Queensland and in the Northern Territory than from the Australian Labor Party in Queensland and the Northern Territory. 
The Northern Territory Government has made it clear that it is not on the side of the Aboriginal people. As the  Northern Territory News  indicated, actions speak louder than words. As recently as last Friday, when I made up my notes, the Northern Territory Government proclaimed the Jabiru town site, to the embarrassment of the Federal Government and of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service. The area proclaimed was 52 square kilometres, not 1 3 square kilometres as agreed to in the case of Ranger. The size of Jabiru could be anything.  Mr Everingham  has been quoted as saying: 'No one could be held by the limit of an arbitrary guesstimate of 3,500 in the Fox report'. Of course, the visit to Canberra this week by  Mr Everingham  to speak with his colleagues shows that the Northern Territory Government is still fighting this. This surprises me. It seems to mean nothing to  Mr Everingham  that the Aboriginal people were assured that 3,500 people would be the maximum. This was the promise made by the Minister's government in 1976. It was the promise repeated by his predecessor,  Mr Viner,  at the signing of the Ranger Agreement last year. The fears of the Aboriginal people at Oenpelli are well known to the Minister and, because time is short, I will not elaborate on them. The Northern Territory Government has warned that the campaign to get the Kakadu and Uluru national parks under the administration of the Northern Territory would continue.  Mr Everingham  has made further attacks on the ANPWS, stating bluntly that the Service does not know its job. My colleague  Senator Kilgariff  mentioned that the Everingham Government sent out warning notices to four pastoral properties. I will just read a statement from the  Canberra Times  of 6 November. It stated: 
Four Aboriginal communities, including the Gurindji at  Dagaragu,  or Wattle Creek, have received letters recently from the Northern Territory Lands Department drawing attention to alleged breaches of covenant on their pastoral leases, and warning of forfeiture if no answers were received within a specified period. 
The moves were interpreted by several Aboriginal groups, and by the  deputy  Opposition leader in the Territory,  Mr Perkins,- 
Himself an Aboriginal-  as being part of a tactic by the Government to oppose the eventual granting of land rights over the leases. 
Let us make it quite clear that the situation is not quite as  Senator Kilgariff  said it was. It is an involved business to write to these pastoral properties and to threaten forfeiture. It is a three stage process at least. But what happened in this case was that the final statement was sent first- not the first one, to be followed weeks or months later by the second one, to be followed weeks or months later by the third. The third one, the final one, was sent first. Whatever we say, people in the Northern Territory know very well that covenants have not been kept by pastoral properties for 70 years and that for many years absolutely nothing was done about that. I make no complaint about that. It was a situation for another government or for the present Government in another form. It certainly seems that the notices were sent to only those four companies until there was an outcry in the Northern Territory. Then additional statements were sent to another group- perhaps the 50 or 60 referred to by my colleague. When there was an outcry the Government reverted to sending to the Aboriginal communities not letter number one but letter number two. At least it went back one stage. This is part of the total attack on Aboriginal properties. 
Always we hear from the Everingham Government and, unfortunately, from some people in this place, that disease will spread out from Aboriginal properties. For some reason -we know what the reason is- the suggestion is made that pastoral properties managed by Aborigines are not being run properly; that the rest of Australia will suffer as a result of these people in the Northern Territory being given pastoral properties to manage. As I said previously, over the years many letters have been sent out and, as far as I know, not one property- including even the immense foreign-owned properties which exist in the Northern Territory- has been resumed. Aboriginal people are feeling insecure. Despite the fine words of Whitlam, which were sincere and would have been carried out, and despite the reiteration by Minister Viner, Aboriginals on pastoral properties have no security of tenure. They could be resumed if in breach. It would seem that the Aboriginal people themselves feel that they have no rights. Let us face it, if all the properties in the Northern Territory which were in breach of their covenants were forefeited there would be a tremendous change to the pattern of ownership in that Territory. 
I want to deal with a number of other problems, but I will just mention them because of the shortage of time. There is a problem with roads. The Minister is very aware of that. I mention it only because it is a concern of mine. Access to roads, who is to control them, the permit system- the whole matter is disturbing to the Minister, the Opposition and the Northern Land Council. What is concerning me- I hope it is concerning other people also- is the attitude of some people in Australia. An article about the Northern Territory which was written by a  Mr Hewatt  and which appeared in the  Australian  reads: 
One quarter of the population plays almost no part in this bustling development. They are the Aboriginals. Their only role is to obstruct by the use of land claims. Right now, with the energy problem growing, they are stalling the extraction and refining of the Territory's only known oil and gas reserve. 
It is hard to see how they will ever be able to play a partnership role in the development of the mighty riches of the land which was once their hunting ground. 
In some way we have to overcome that sort of attitude. With respect, I do not suggest that the Minister shares those views, but obviously we need some sort of education program- some sort of statement- to overcome some of that. It shows a complete lack of understanding of the situation in the Northern Territory and of the Aboriginal people. But, unfortunately, that is the sort of material which has an effect on the people who do not know the situation, and who, perhaps, given the right sort of information, would react as they did to the referendum in 1 967. 1 suggest that the NLC and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs have a big job to do in public relations. 
This is an important piece of legislation. I do not think it is too strong to say that the Minister's credibility is on the line. The Aboriginal people are looking for strength. I plead with the Minister not to let them down, to exercise authority and not to be bluffed, as perhaps his predecessor was. The Federal Government has certain responsibilities and I call on the Minister to exercise those responsibilities in the best interests of the Aboriginal people and, ultimately, of Australia as a whole. 
The Committee is dealing with the Remuneration and Allowances Bill 1979 and the Ministers of State Amendment Bill 1979. An amendment relating to the Remuneration and Allowances Bill 1979 has been circulated. Is it the wish of the Committee, therefore, that we deal with that Bill first? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
Remuneration and Allowances Bill 1979 
Clauses 1 to 3- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Allowances to be paid to office holders of the Parliament). 
The question is: That the Bill be reported without amendment. 
I wish to speak briefly in support of the motion moved by  Senator Thomas  in respect of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. The reference referred to by  Senator Thomas  is of particular interest to me not only because I was a member of the Committee but also because the adequacy of quarantine and other control measures to protect Australia 's pastoral industries refers particularly to the Northern Territory. Might I just comment firstly on those aspects of particular interest to the Northern Territory and then make one or two other general comments? The report refers to surveillance. The need for surveillance has been established not only by this report but also by other recommendations to government. The report commented on a couple of aspects of surveillance. The first was the weakness of the timing of flights so that they came to the same spot at the same time each day. It did not take much to suggest that people who wanted to avoid surveillance would simply have to avoid being in that location at that time. 
Attention was drawn also in the report to the value of Aboriginal people as observers. I am particularly happy to see that, as well over 12 months ago I made the suggestion that Aboriginal people might be used for that purpose. The report draws attention to the weakness in using non-trained persons; now we have suggested that Aboriginal people might be used. I extend that comment and reiterate the suggestion I made previously that observers might be placed, shall we say, in situ- in other words, along the coast- and might be equipped with small radio sets so that they could conduct surveillance in conjunction with aircraft. During the inquiry attention was drawn also to the strange situation of surveillance being conducted by aircraft controlled by a foreign company or even a foreign country. Comment has been made about that. Mention was made in the report also to feral animals, particularly pigs. The report stressed the need for research to assist the eradication of those feral animals. I urge the Government to look very closely at that recommendation. 
I digress for just a moment to outline a simple situation in relation to feral pigs which pertains in the north of Queensland and in the Northern Territory. We know that the green turtle eats sea wasps. As a result of inquiries we found that the feral pigs eat the green turtle eggs; therefore, fewer green turtles are produced; therefore, at the present time we have larger numbers of sea wasps around the coast than we had previously and those numbers will increase. That is just one illustration of the ecology being disturbed. I refer honourable senators to page vii of the reportthe first page of the summary- which includes the following statement: 
Diseases of economic importance to Australia's pastoral industries need not be exotic diseases which cause death and destruction. Diseases which reduce output, increase costs and restrict access to markets are becoming more significant as competition in world markets increases. Many such diseases are already endemic in Australia and involve control and /or eradication measures at the State level. There should be greater involvement of the Commonwealth in pursuing nation-wide control and eradication programs, including control of feral animals, as an important component of an overall approach to quarantine. 
While the Committee was conducting hearings in Darwin, attention was drawn to the oriental fruit fly and the problems created by that pest. I draw the Government's attention to the appropriate recommendation in the report. While we were in Darwin we looked also at the abandoned refugee boats. Whilst some good work has been done by people in the Northern Territory in getting rid of those boats, by selling them and other means, they were a problem and they could be again. Perhaps the coming of the report should draw attention to something which was a great cost to the Australian taxpayer, as we have no way of making a claim against the owners of the boats. It is quite clear that the Government should have a firm policy on the matter of the control of the boats and on how pests on them should be controlled. The report deals with and  Senator Thomas  referred to the legality of quarantine measures taken on Aboriginal reserves. I make the point that no suggestion is implied in the report, and I am sure it was not intended to be implied by  Senator Thomas  or others, that there is a greater hazard on Aboriginal reserves, in Aboriginal communities and on Aboriginal pastoral properties than there is in other areas. There is simply a need for the legislation to be clarified. 
Matters which were not mentioned specifically in the report but which grew out of the report and are of interest to the Northern Territory include the inspection of Taiwanese fishing vessels which have been licenced to operate in the waters off Australia. I asked a question about the staff available to do two things: Firstly, to make the initial inspection of these vessels; secondly to carry out an on-going inspection. I have not had a reply on that, but I hope the Government will see the need for more staff to ensure that the normal duties of the quarantine officers are not affected. The second point deals with the inspection of cruise vessels or the people from cruise vessels in Darwin. While we were in Darwin attention was drawn to the fact that when a large group of people come in there are no facilities for the inspections to be carried out. We have the totally unsatisfactory situation of the people being loaded into buses and taken off to one of the club rooms in town to be examined. It is fairly obvious that this is an unsatisfactory arrangement. 
I stress, as  Senator Thomas  has done, the need for research co-ordination. The Committee has indicated in the report that it sees this as a role for plant quarantine. That research could well be followed by publication of reference collections of pests. There is also a need for the production of a manual of fish types. Attention has been drawn to this in the report. One other aspect which concerned us slightly is the differing standards between port A and port B. The Committee expressed concern about this and it is quite obvious that some people in the industry referred to- I do not want to be too specific about it- took advantage of this differing standard. We want to ensure that in future there will be no differing standards. I note with pride- perhaps I can be a little parochial- that the report states on the last page: 
To facilitate the absorption of General Quarantine into Animal and Plant Quarantine the Committee recommends that a unified quarantine inspection service- similar to the new Northern Territory Quarantine Service- be set up in each State. 
I commend the Northern Territory Government for that and take some pride in the fact that it is seen as an example which might be followed. I join with the  Chairman  in commending the members of the secretariat for their dedication and for the assistance that they gave in the production of the report. I trust the Government will follow the advice given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  namely, that the appropriate Minister will react to this document within six months, and I certainly hope that there will be a reaction in well under that time. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I take this opportunity of the motion for the first reading of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) 1979-80 to take part in what is a continuation of the Budget debate. It is unfortunate that so many honourable senators did not get the opportunity to speak at a more appropriate time; that is, directly following presentation of the Budget. It is of no credit to the Government that the debate has been so severely limited. A colleague of mine spoke on this matter earlier. There seems to be an unseemly haste for Parliament to rise, with no justification. Nevertheless, it would seem most appropriate to present the material I have as if I were giving it the day after the Budget Speech. This is the approach I intend to take. So I will be referring to the Budget. Obviously the discussion will centre on the Federal Government's monetary and fiscal policies for the Northern Territory. The Leader of the Australian Labor Party, Bill Hayden, in a debate in the other place, summed up the general attitude to the Budget- that is, the general attitude except for those who must support by party allegiance the Budget as it is presented and I suggest, looking at the Budget, that that is a fairly high price to pay for being a member of the Federal Government- when he stated: 
This Budget will bring more hardship, more unemployment and more suffering to the great majority or Australian families. It means higher taxes, higher inflation and another major contraction in the living standards of the ordinary people. It spells out in quite stark terms the total failure of the policies that the Government has followed for four years. Worst of all, it insists that these policies of failure will continue. 
A similar comment came from the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, which stated: 
In 1977 we stated that the Budget was 'a recipe for continued recession'. The steady rise in registered unemployed and the significant increase in hidden unemployment since has confirmed that prediction. 
This Budget takes Australia further along that recessionary road. It makes further cuts in the public sector and provides additional concessions to the private sector. It refuses to face the realities of the Australian economy which depend on a healthy, expanding public sector. 
The Budget will increase unemployment, inflation, taxes and interest rates- despite Government promises and rhetoric to the contrary. 
My colleagues here and in the other place have made broad criticisms and have pointed out the effects of this disastrous Budget. For my part, I want to look at the effect of the Budget on the people of the Northern Territory. I make it quite clear that I am not talking about the money which has been made available to the Northern Territory Government- that is satisfactory- but about the effect of the total policy decisions made by the Government, as exemplified in the Budget and as carried on since. Of course, the Northern Territory will suffer the same as the rest of Australia. There will be an increase in unemployment. There will be an increase in the rate of inflation and in the attendant cost of living, which is already high in the Northern Territory due to other government activity and inactivity -the result, one might say, of the political sins of omission and commission of the Federal Government. There will be increased taxes. There will be a decrease in Government spending, a further contraction of the economy and the lack of stimulation that has been referred to. There will be a decrease in education spending and a continued attack on those least able to bear it; that is, the 75 per cent of unemployed people who are single. I will deal with those aspects with particular reference to the Northern Territory. 
The Northern Territory, like other special places, has special problems, and I want to look at some of these. Again I make a point that we are looking at the Budget as part of the continuing Government policy which to the present has brought stagnation to the Northern Territory. Let us look first at unemployment. When we look back over the past 12 months, we see that uranium was to be the panacea. It is interesting that Roxby Downs prompted the same sort of comments, that is that it would solve the unemployment problem. I would like to read a few quotations from the  Northern Territory News.  In January 1978 that newspaper reported  Mr Paul 
Everingham, the Leader of the Government, as saying that uranium:   . . will take up the slack in the transport and construction industries and should lead the Territory into one of its busiest periods of expansion yet. 
In May 1978  Mr Tony  Grey,  Chairman  of Pancontinental Mining Ltd, was reported to have said: 
One of the most significant benefits will be the provision of jobs. 
In July 1 978 the  President  of the Master Builders Association of the Northern Territory,  Mr Ernie  Hall, was reported to have said: 
Uranium can take up the slack. Each construction job meant another three jobs in the NT. 

 Mr Tuxworth, the Executive member responsible for mining and health- that most unusual combination- said: 
We all know that Ranger is going to be mined, that as a result the unemployment situation is going to be eased, equipment suppliers are going to be assisted and the Territory and Australian economies are going to get a boost at a time when this is sorely needed. 
The only note of caution, which unfortunately came to be prophetic, came from me when under the heading 'Lure of uranium threat to jobs' in February 1 979 the following was reported: 
Labor  Senator Ted  Robertson has forecast a worsening unemployment situation this year because of what he calls the 'lure of uranium'. 
This has occurred and has brought with it all the problems that are associated with unemployment. Because uranium was to be the answer, no attempt was made- nothing else was done- to stimulate the economy and the Government has continued its sorry record of total disregard of the problems of the Northern Territory. 
What is the present situation? Let us look at the unemployment figures from the Commonwealth Employment Service. In February 1978 the Northern Territory unemployment figure was 9.67 per cent and in February 1 979 it was 1 1.27 per cent, a rise of 1.6 per cent. The Australian figures for the same time were 6.73 per cent in February 1978 and 7.54 per cent in February 1 979, an increase of 0.8 1 per cent. The increase in the Northern Territory figures was nearly double the increase in .the Australian figures. It is rather interesting to notice that the Nabarlek agreement was signed in December 1978 and the Ranger agreement was signed in January 1 979. There is nothing in the Budget or in the policies to redress the fault. There is nothing to prevent an increase in unemployment. There is no stimulation of the economy and there are no public works, and the situation has been exacerbated by the Budget which does, nothing to assist those unemployed in the Northern Territory. A single person without dependants and under 18 gets $36 a week- that amount is unchanged. A single person without dependants and over 25 years of age gets $51.45 a weekthat amount is unchanged. All benefits are unchanged in that there has been no allowance for inflation, no rent or travel rebate and no zone allowance for the Top End. The situation is extremely difficult for those large numbers of unemployed people in the Northern Territory. 
It is interesting, almost macabre, to compare the unemployment benefit with the allowance given to provide food for prisoners in Northern Territory gaols. This is for food only because accommodation is provided free. In Alice Springs $42 a week is given to provide prisoners with food. In Tennant Creek the figure is $46 a week, in Katherine it is $58. 10 a week and in Darwin it is $77 a week. In other words, the Government recognises that the unemployment benefit is not enough and yet callously does nothing about it. There is another factor in the situation in the Northern Territory which is not often recognised. I am looking at the July 1979 figures provided by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs which show that in the Northern Territory there is a higher number of unemployed people who do not receive the unemployment benefit than there is anywhere else in Australia. These figures for July 1979 show a total of 5,342 people unemployed with a staggering 2,29 1 not receiving unemployment benefit; that is, 43 per cent of those people who are unemployed are not receiving unemployment benefit. 
Who are these people? They are the itinerants who are coming to the Northern Territory in the hope of finding work, and we assume that most of them are unskilled. They are perhaps attracted by the lure of uranium which I mentioned earlier. Of course, there are no vacancies. What happens to these 2,29 1 people who do not get unemployment benefit? We must ask these questions: What do they eat, where do they live and- the obvious social consequence- what is the potential for crime amongst these people if they have no money to buy food, clothing and the other things they need? I suggest that the Government does not know and does not care about these people who are unemployed and who are not receiving benefits. 
Another problem of the same magnitude is the Aboriginal unemployed. Officers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs say that Aboriginals will not register for unemployment benefit because they do not want sit down money. This has been mentioned previously by my colleague from the Northern Territory. So 1,500 to 2,000 Aboriginal people are unemployed and not registered. If we add to those the number of people who are unemployed and registered we will see the magnitude of the problem: Approximately 7,000 people are unemployed, of whom 4,000 do not receive unemployment benefit. It must be said, of course, that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  is conscious of the problem; but cuts have been made. Employment projects have been cut by 9.6 per cent in real terms. There has been a decrease in grantsinaid. There has been an increase in Commonwealth Development Employment Project schemes, but the increase is still not enough. At this stage let me commend the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs for the interest he has taken in trying to meet situations that have been drawn to his attention by those of us from the Northern Territory, but he cannot do this without money. I am suggesting that insufficient money has been made available. 
Unemployment obviously will increase as school leavers enter the job market. There are particular fears about this. Each of the Aboriginal community settlements that I visit in Arnhem Land has great fears about the effect, on young people, of coming out of school with no work prospects. Despite the predictions that I read out earlier, uranium has done almost nothing to help in the situation of Aboriginal unemployment. If we look at Ranger, where most work is done by contract, we see that Ranger says that it has no control over contractors and that it cannot insist that the contractors employ Aboriginal people. The latest figures that I have from the CES show that seven Aboriginal people are employed at Ranger. At Nabarlek the company does not directly employ Aborigines but it has proposed the establishment of a company to give contracts to Aborigines much along the lines of what happened at Gove. So far nothing has been done, but I commend this approach. Obviously something needs to be done and should be done. Training programs are the obvious solution as long as we create jobs at the end of them. 
To sum up, it is fair to say that there has been no upsurge in the Northern Territory economy despite the fact that Nabarlek has commenced mining and Ranger has started construction. The Northern Territory Government's capital works Budget is devoted almost entirely to road works with very little construction work which, of course, is labour intensive and which is conducive to apprenticeship training. Uranium has not taken up the slack, as predicted by  Mr Paul  Everingham and. by the Federal Government. 
Let us look at some other areas. One is related to training, which I have already discussed. The National Employment and Training Scheme has been cut by 47 per cent and the Special Youth Employment Training Program has been cut by 69 per cent; that is, provided all the money is spent. Last year we know that NEAT was underspent by $34m. What was the reason for this? Was it bad administration, shortage of staff or what? 
I turn briefly to the Aboriginal situation. The Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory have been hit by the Budget in many ways. In housing, the $405,000 grant to the Northern Territory Housing Commission in last year's Budget was unspent and has been reallocated. One must ask the question: Why was it unspent? It is fairly obviously because the Federal Government has abrogated its responsibility to the Northern Territory Aborigines. The Federal Government has reneged on its condition of self-government that it would retain responsibility for the Aborigines. That condition was welcomed by the Aborigines who had justifiable doubts about their treatment under a Liberal-Country Party Government. 
The money available for Aboriginal health purposes is down 1.5 per cent on last year in real terms, despite the appalling conditions in which most Aboriginal people live and the horrendous infant mortality rate of Aboriginal children. A Third World exists in the Northern Territory; it consists of the Aboriginal communities. The Commonwealth handed over responsibility for health to the Northern Territory Government in January 1979. Yet in May 1979 we saw the newspaper headline: 'Aboriginal Camps Shock for Assembly'. A comprehensive report provided for the first time base line data about the conditions facing many Northern Territory Aboriginal communities. It is based on a survey carried out during 1977-78. 1 remind the Senate that that is when the Federal Government was responsible for health. 
Let us look at some of the findings of that report. It shows an alarming degree of neglect. In the southern region of the Territory white settlements have 100 per cent access to taps, showers, toilets, laundries, electricity and refrigeration. On the other hand, Aboriginal communities have been sadly neglected. We find that 22.9 per cent of them have taps, 19.9 per cent have toilets and showers, 17.7 per cent have laundries, 20.3 per cent have electricity and 1 1 .7 per cent have refrigeration. The northern and East Alligator areas have better facilities, averaging 64. 1 9 per cent in the northern area and 52.3 per cent in the east Arnhemland area. But that is still unsatisfactory when compared with the European average of 100 per cent. There is no indication of any improvement. 
I made the point earlier that what I am saying must be read in conjunction with the Northern Territory Budget. The funding is on the basis of continuing present programs. There is no reason to believe that the present Northern Territory Government will be able to achieve that objective without significant Federal assistance. That assistance should be substantial, with the provision of special purpose funds to clean up the mess which the Federal Government created. My colleague in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly was reported in an article which appeared in the  Northern Territory News  to have had this.to say: 
The Federal Government should not have reduced its appropriation for health care in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs . . . 
The health care problems among Aborigines are still as acute as ever. 
Malnutrition, venereal disease, and alcohol related illnesses are still prevalent. 
Many of these diseases are associated with the squalor and bad environmental conditions which many people endure while bureaucratic procrastination replaces positive housing programs. 
Overall, the DAA budget increase of $9.2 million has not kept pace with inflation. 
Later in the same article he was reported to have stated: 
This suggests that the battle against sickness has been won and that there is room for complacency . . . 
That's simply not true. 
Black babies are still dying at a higher and alarming rate than white babies. The still-birth rate is still not going down. 
I move on now to make a few comments on other general areas. As I have stated in the Senate on many occasions, Territorians miss out with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Northern Territory News of 5 September stated: 
The Northern Territory's days of live sport telecasts may well and truly be over. Territorians will not see this year's VFL and Sydney Rugby League grand finals or the Melbourne Cup. And it is unlikely we '11 see the Moscow Olympic Games or even this month 's first test in the Australia India cricket tour. 
The General Manager of the commercial station NTD-8 said: 
We have access to all the programs material but can't get it on the screen because the ABC won't let us have the bearer. 
The ABC Manager said, in turn: 
If the commercial interests want to pay huge amounts that the ABC cannot match then it's not our fault that a direct coverage is not able to be provided. 
But the point must be made, as other speakers have made it here, that the ABC has let the Northern Territory down. The British Broadcasting Corporation has overcome this problem by designating some programs 'national events'. That is a simple solution which might be adopted by the ABC to make sure that territorians can see the Melbourne Cup, the test series and other major events. Why can we not have a similar scheme? Funds simply are not available to enable the provision of those sorts of programs, according to the ABC. Also, there are no funds for the coverage of local events. We are still unable to get coverage of Northern Territory sporting events. Funds do not allow for adequate local content in news broadcasts. We are still taking Queensland news. Cyclone Tracy hit Darwin in December 1974; that is coming up to five years ago. We still have not solved the problems of that time. 
In the school broadcasts area, once again we are still taking Queensland broadcasts. I have spoken of that in the Senate before. There are not enough funds to record programs so that when the Queensland and Northern Territory holidays do not coincide- they do not coincide, Queensland being what it is- the Northern Territory misses out. In the same way, holiday programs are not available to the young people of the Northern Territory. A shortage of staff in the Northern Territory means that we get adultonly programs at 7 p.m., which is in 'G' viewing time. I refer now to Radio Australia and the Cox Peninsula. The Melbourne  Age  in August 1 979, referring to the allocation in the Budget for the ABC, stated: 
Of the $ 10.9m . . . $500,000 will be devoted to rehabilitating Radio Australia's Cox Peninsular facilities. 
It is estimated that that will be completed by 1982, eight years after Tracy. The Controller of Overseas Services for the ABC said that he was delighted that the building project was now definitely going ahead. I have to say, with some cynicism, that the people of the Northern Territory are still waiting to be delighted. We are still waiting for the domestic short-wave or mediumwave service we were promised before the cyclone. It was supposed to be finished before the cyclone, not started. I have told in this place the story of how the transmitter was whipped away and used at Shepparton. 
We are getting inadequate services in the Northern Territory. It would be wonderful if the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  would forget his toy of the moment- his satellite- and give the Northern Territory adequate radio services. Aboriginal groups and other people in remote areas are still missing out. There is still no ethnic radio service, although the proposition of providing it was put up 10 years ago. We have no access radio. The Milingimbi project should be operating. Many honourable senators will know of that project; certainly the Minister knows about it. It has not yet started. There has been one frustration after another. 
On the matter of the National Estate, we applaud the increase in grants to Northern Territory projects, but we note the almost total neglect of the past. I suppose it is easy to increase the allocation if we got nothing before. The allocation to the National Trust to support administration remains the same- $30,000 for other people and $ 1 5,000 for the Territory. We had hoped that the Northern Territory would get the same as the States. We might have fewer people than the States, but we certainly have no less history and no less a need for preservation. 
The impetus given to tourism in the Budget is welcomed. It has been welcomed in this place and in others. Unfortunately, the situation in the Northern Territory is that the Budget gives with one hand and takes away with the other. We have increased navigation charges. There will be annual increases of 25 per cent over each of the next three years. Travel to the Northern Territory is by air. The Northern Territory relies heavily on air transport for freight. Travel on roads is difficult- on the southern road it is impossible, despite pleas to the Federal Government to accept it as a national road. I make the point that, despite the fact that  Mr Sinclair  promised the road, it was denied us. It is interesting to see that the new South Australian Government has decided to build the road from its normal allocation of funds. I suggest that the figures we have indicate that that will be an impossibility, that more Federal assistance will be needed. We have a rail service only to Alice Springs- at least, it will be through to Alice Springs shortly. It is interesting to see the petitions being presented by the Government's colleagues in the Northern Territory, members of the Country-Liberal Party. I will not go into that. 
The Top End has a vast tourist potential, but we will not attract tourists without further support. We need a new air terminal. We still have the same hangar we had when I first went to Darwin in 1948, 30-odd years ago. Certainly, it has been timed up a bit, but it is the same building with the same lack of facilities. We need to look at new incoming routes from overseas. They do not all have to come through southern ports. We need to accept that northern Australia is part of Australia and not some extended green belt between the south and Asia. In the pension area, indexation has been regained, but no allowance has been given to make up for the money that has been taken from the pensioners. There is still no zone allowance for the Northern Territory, no acceptance that old-timers cannot afford to live there. The philosophy seems to be to build up the Territory and get out. One is almost tempted to make the comment: Prisoners fare better than pensioners in the Northern Territory. 
Much favourable comment has been made about the generosity of the government grant to the Northern Territory. This is a good gesture from a government which favours grand gestures; a government which enables its CountryLiberal Party colleagues to endeavour to try to buy votes in a futile attempt to retain government. But we must look beyond this single item. All Budget decisions will affect territorians, and I have highlighted just a few. Unemployment will increase in an area where it is the highest. Taxes will go up. Inflation will go up. The standard of living will go down. The economy will remain stagnant. Public services will deteriorate further due to shortages of funds for staff and resources. The lot of the disadvantaged will be further eroded. It was clear at the time of the presentation of the Budget and in the two weeks that followed that the Government had been exposed not only by Risstrom but also by impartial economists. The exercise to hoodwink the public was foiled. It was called an election Budget but it backfired. If it had been an election Budget it would have assisted the Australian Labor Party and not Fraser. It seems to me that the total thing was an exercise in cynical disregard of the real needs of the Australian people. 
I would like to make the point that I sat through the meetings of Estimates Committee F when it dealt with the Department of Primary Industry, as did the Minister for Science and the Environment. As the Minister was there, he should be able to give the information that has been requested. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that the recently licensed Taiwanese fishing vessels are expected to draw heavily on supplies of distillate from Darwin? If this is a fact, would the Minister indicate what quota arrangements have been made to ensure that primary producers and others in the Northern Territory will not be disadvantaged if a shortage should occur? 

 - Mr Chairman, I wish to speak briefly on the fuel freight subsidy scheme. I notice that the payments to States are covered in a special appropriation under the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act. Payment to the Northern Territory is covered by item 06 of subdivision 3 of division 1 95. There appears to be no appropriation for the Australian Capital Territory. I refer to the transcript of Senate Estimates Committee F where the following question was asked: 
Is a subsidy paid within the Australian Capital Teritory? 
The answer given was: 
The last time I looked at the matter no subsidy was paid in the Australian Capital Territory. 
That situation has changed. A subsidy is now paid in the Australian Capital Territory. So I ask this question: Where is the authority for this payment and under which vote are funds appropriated? 
I would like to raise a couple of points. I support what has been said by  Senator Douglas  McClelland on the declaration of national events so that we in the outback can see events like the cricket tests, the Melbourne Cup and so on. I do not want to debate the matters that I am going to raise because we have canvassed them before. I just want to raise them with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney).  I am talking about the time-table of the Cox Peninsula situation. Could we have some indication when the Radio Australia beam to the north will be completed? Could we have some indication of when the medium wave, which is to serve the Northern Territory, will be finished? 
One other point I would raise, again not to debate it because I have raised it here before, is that there appears to be no allocation for access radio or community radio. I am referring particularly to the Aboriginal situation. I am pleased that  Senator Chaney  can perhaps answer this point. If there is no allocation, can we ask that the Government look at this matter so that we can see situations like that at Milingimbi being introduced to give the Aboriginals access radio? 
I take the opportunity in the debate on the first readings of these money Bills briefly to draw further attention to the plight of those people living- or perhaps I should say existing- in East Timor. I am prompted to do so for a number of reasons. The first is that I have a continuing interest in East Timor, like many other senators on both sides of this chamber. I have a very keen recognition of the abuse and denial of human rights in that country. Recently in a debate on a matter of public importance I was not allowed to take part as the second  speaker. I was gagged. There were only two speakers in that debate. Some of the material which I was going to use on that occasion I will be using tonight. There is a great deal of public interest here at the present time in relation to this matter, and I am pleased to say that it is developing in the United States. But, of course, the public needs to be informed and reminded of East Timor at a time when there is a great deal of misery in many parts of the world. I am prompted also by the fact that there has been a move for Timor independence. I wish to read briefly from an article in the  Australian.  It states: 
A new movement seeking independence for the former Portuguese colony of East Timor, now incorporated into Indonesia, launched a Press campaign in the Portuguese capital at the weekend . . . The movement's first objective is to bring pressure on the Portuguese Government and the United Nations to demand the withdrawal of Indonesia from the Territory it formerly incorporated in July 1976. 
The other reason that prompts me to speak on this matter tonight is the fact that I received recently a copy of the draft resolution from the 34th session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. I seek leave to incorporate that document in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 
The  document read as follows: 
Thirty-fourth session Fourth Committee Agenda item 91 
I wish to draw attention to a number of matters from this United Nations resolution. 
-At the present time. A number of the resolutions state: 
Having also heard the statements by the petitioners, including the representatives . . . 
Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of East Timor to self-determination and independence, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 1 5 1 4 ( XV); 
Declares that the people of East Timor must be enabled freely to determine their own future, under the auspices of the United Nations; 
Expresses its deepest concern at the suffering of the people of East Timor as a result of the situation now prevailing in the Territory; 
Requests the United Nations Children's Fund and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to render all possible assistance to the people of East Timor particularly the children and those seeking to leave for another country . . . 
The matter of public importance last week dealt with the current situation in East Timor. A low key approach was adopted by the speakers from this side, designed to gain Government acceptance and to encourage those members of the other side of the chamber with an interest in this matter to support the proposition of the Opposition. Honourable senators will know that the Leader of the Government  (Senator Carrick)  adopted an aggressive stance in support of Indonesia. They would also know that a device was adopted which prevented the Government members from supporting the motion. The material which I present this evening will not canvass the MPI motion; it will introduce some new material and call for some action. Like the initial MPI, it will not be emotional since I do not believe that we should become emotional when discussing the matter of East Timor. 
However, I think it is important to correct some of the statements made by the Leader of the Government and remove some of the misconceptions that the public may have as a result of his speech. The evidence which I will present will be drawn from Legislative Research Service documents prepared by  Mr Jim  Dunn, who would be acknowledged to know more about the East Timor situation than anyone else in Australia, and from letters and statements from Timorese people both in Australia and in East Timor. It is fairly obvious that I cannot cite the sources of these documents, although I would be prepared to provide them in confidence to the Leader of the Government. I will quote also from the Australian Council for Overseas Aid Report for July 1979 and also from some newspaper reports prepared by journalists allowed into East Timor. 
Early in his response the Minister spoke of the Opposition 'seeking to give a gratuitous berating to the Indonesian Government about the defects of the past'. It is quite clear to those who listened that the debate was less about the past than the present. There have been a number of reports on the present suffering which inevitably had to draw on the horrors of the past. Also a number of reports have indicated the humanitarian aspect of the situation in East Timor, showing the grim picture which exists at the present time. Honourable senators will appreciate that we cannot ignore this aspect because it increases the responsibility to deal with the present situation. The Minister referred to the defects of the past and made a vitriolic attack on the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  But we have to remind ourselves that the invasion of Dili, the military operation to annexe, took place some weeks after 1 1 November 1975. 
Most of the massive loss of life occurred during the life of the Fraser Government, which gives the Fraser Government, and the Australian Parliament, a special responsibility because there seems little doubt that the Australian Government knew of Indonesia's plan. One wonders whether the Government of Australia ever applied pressure on Indonesia not to invade. We remind ourselves that during the time of the 
Fraser Government, Australia abandoned support for the rights of self-determination, eventually siding with Indonesia at the United Nations General Assembly. Again, in spite of persistent reports of brutal treatment of the Timorese, the Federal Government gave de facto recognition of incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia. Government officials and spokesmen have always criticised Portugal. Of course Portugal deserves to be criticised for the weakness which it showed. But the fact remains that Indonesia exploited the situation and endeavoured to undermine the desire the Timorese had for political independence. 
The Leader of the Government misrepresented the situation, and I will just give one example here. He quoted the fact that there was only one doctor in Timor before the coup. Our information, which we can verify, suggests that just before these events in 1974, there were more than 20 doctors in East Timor. An Indonesian publication admits that there were 22 doctors in 1 974. This number is higher than in Indonesian Timor which had a larger population. It is accepted that Portugal did not do much to develop the economy of East Timor. Even so, it is fair to say that it did more than Indonesia did in Indonesian Timor. Many of us know of the attempts that were made by the Portuguese Government to encourage tourists to visit East Timor. Most of us who went over there went on subsidised fares. We know from our experience that the roads in East Timor, whilst not good, were better than those in Indonesian Timor. Except in the wet season, one could move pretty well over all of East Timor. The comment was made by the Leader of the Government: 
Our sole task should be to help the Indonesian people save their - 
He means the Timorese- lives and restore their health. 
To me, it seems to be a cart-before-the-horse attitude. It is quite obvious that the Indonesians are responsible for the present situation. Their competence, not to mention their moral right, to have sole custody of East Timor, is in very serious doubt. In the past, by denying access to the International Committee of the Red Cross, and by assuring the people of Australia that it was not necessary for aid to come in and that the East Timorese had accepted integration, Indonesia exacerbated the situation. If Indonesia had allowed relief agencies into East Timor in those early stages,  V/i  years ago, then there is no doubt that the situation would not have developed to the point at which it is at present. Surely the least we can do at present is to press for maximum international presence until the situation improves. 
Once again, government officials and spokesmen said that colonial development was negligible. Whilst we accept that position, although not good, it must be accepted that in the last 60 years the only internal upheavals in East Timor were the Japanese occupation, the Indonesian invasion and a minor skirmish in 1958 caused by a group of Indonesian soldiers. Tribal fighting was rare and security was good. Those of us who went there know that one could move all over the island accompanied only by a driver. There was much less corruption in East Timor than there was in Indonesian Timor. The Legislative Research Service document states: 
This is not a defence of the Portuguese, but a reminder that colonisation by a regime of the same colour is not necessarily any better than white colonisation. 
This was the point raised again and again by Timorese political leaders, UDT as well as Fretlin, who saw integration with Indonesia as 'recolonisation' rather than decolonisation. 
The Minister, in his speech during the discussion on a matter of public importance, said that the Government does not condone annexation in East Timor or anywhere else. But surely one must ask these questions: Has this not been done by granting de facto recognition? Has this not also been done by lack of action? 
It is generally agreed by students who look at the situation that if Australia had disapproved, and had expressed this disapproval, the disastrous situation in East Timor, as we know it now, would not have occurred. Thousands of lives would have been saved, a beautiful country would not have been destroyed and the East Timorese people could have moved along the path to self-determination. One cannot dissociate the humanitarian situation from the political and human rights aspects of the overall problem. Indonesia says that East Timor is an internal matter and ipso facto outside the attention of Australia, but we have to remind ourselves that by becoming a foundation member of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights we have a commitment to human rights all over the world. No gross abuse of human rights can be entirely an internal affair. The plight of the people in East Timor must be a matter for our concern particularly because East Timor developed to its present situation because we did not act to prevent it and took no action to stop Indonesia believing that she did not have some special right to East Timor. 
The matter of public importance which we brought on for debate last week was directed at Indonesia quite clearly because Indonesia is seen by the world to be culpable. It has not pursued peace with the same enthusiasm that it pursued war. It has created a situation in which hundreds of thousands have died and more are dying daily. I have used the phrase 'genocide by neglect' and I have been criticised for doing so. I am probably right in using it because, after all, it precludes intent and many people see intent in what Indonesia is doing. Indonesia has shown itself incapable of resolving the problems in East Timor. For that reason alone we should press for some alternative. I will not go into the brutality against East Timorese people. I have tried to keep emotion out of this debate but it would not be possible to do so if I started reporting in this place some of the details that have come to me and to other members of this place by letter and personal account. 
I call on the Government, firstly, to re-think its present attitude towards Indonesia and to look at the facts concerning people- not material possessions, business interests, oil fields and so on, but people. We should reconsider Australia's attitude at the United Nations General Assembly and remind ourselves when we do so of our obligations on the Human Rights Commission. We should continue to press for aid to East Timor but should call for adequate supervision, not just two or three people. We should make sure that we see aid for what it should be and not simply as conscience saving. We should regard the East Timorese people as refugees, not as ordinary migrants. We should facilitate the reuniting of families and not hide behind bureaucratic devices, as we have done up to the present. We should see the East Timorese people in the same light as other refugees. We should press for a group of politicians from Australia to visit and travel freely over the island and not be put off with the cannot guarantee safety' excuse. I have no fear of the East Timorese people and I am sure that others in this place share my view. There would be no trouble in getting a delegation to move to East Timor. We have contacts in that place and we could move around. My fears would not be of the East Timorese. 
Finally I make this plea firstly on the basis of our obligation as members of the United Nations Commission on human relations, our obligation as members of the world community, our debt to those wonderful people who gave their lives to us in our hour of need, the recognition, of our status and our credibility in the community of nations in our region; and, lastly, to the observed and expressed needs of a wonderful subculture whose traditions, language, cultural patterns, and aspirations, set them apart and distinct from that group which has tried to subdue them by a most brutal means, and absorb them as part of a pattern of territorial expansion and resource control. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment, refers to the Uranium Advisory Council and particularly to pages 4 to 7 of its report. What steps has the Minister taken to ensure that the Council is kept fully informed on relevant matters and that the Council's advice is sought prior to decisions being taken? In other words, what steps are being taken to meet those requirements of the report? Given the Council's concern on public access to Aboriginal art sites, what decisions have been made regarding the Northern Territory Government's plan to increase the size of the township of Jabiru? 
asked ' the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
Did the Minister, during the Liberal Party Conference held in Perth in April 1 979, state that he did not consider the boat people' to be illegal immigrants; if so: 
what is the current definition of 'illegal immigrant'; 
b) does the Minister's statement constitute an open invitation for Vietnamese refugees to attempt to sail for Darwin rather than go through the official channels; and 
does the Minister expect that increased numbers of boat people will attempt to make the journey as a result of his statement. 
