 I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it not a fact that the former Minister for Defence,  Mr Fairhall  - now  Sir Allen  Fait hall - journeyed to the United States of America last year and attended a handing over ceremony at Fort Worth, Texas, on 5th September 1969, where he formally received and accepted the first F111C aircraft on behalf of the Australian Government? If the Minister agrees that this is so, does it not compromise the Government and inhibit its ability to renegotiate the original contract in order to purchase another suitable aircraft in lieu of the F111C? Finally, what is the estimated cost of cancellation if this avenue is still available to the Government? 
Members of this chamber will be aware of the tragic event that preceded my entry into the Senate. When the Parliament met on 25th November 1969 warm tributes were paid to the late Sam Cohen. I want to take this opportunity to pay my respects to a very wonderful person. I came to know  Senator Cohen  over a period of approximately 20 years. I have always believed that there is one of two ways in which one can really learn to know a person, that is, either to live with him or to work with him. I worked with the late  Senator Sam  Cohen for many years at various levels of our great Australian Labor Party and I came to respect him. I came to appreciate his dedication and political integrity. These features were recognised by this chamber on 25th November last year. I sincerely believe that our country, and indeed the world, would be a better place if more men were cast in the same mould as my late colleague  Senator Cohen. 
I understand that the Governor-General's Speech is a document prepared by the Government and that to all intents and purposes it projects the legislative intention of the Government in the ensuing sittings of the Parliament. At the outset I want to state, as my colleague  Senator Cavanagh  did in the course of his remarks, that the Australian Labor Party does not oppose the adoption of the Address-in-Reply that is to be conveyed to the Governor-General but we do not support the amendment of the Australian Democratic Labor Party which we consider to have been moved for political propaganda purposes rather than for any other purpose. The amendment is simply a matter of hypocrisy. I join with my colleague in that statement because it is the height of temerity for this corner group to move that the Senate deplores the failure of the Government to include certain matters in its programme. In fact this self same corner group has been responsible, as it has boasted over the years, for the continuation of the Liberal and Country Party coalition government. I believe that the proposed amendment stands condemned because of the obvious political expediency involved. 
I have as a matter of course studied the Governor-General's Speech. I assume that in due course the Government will attempt to translate it into Bill form to implement the promises given either during the last Federal election campaign of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  or which appear in this document. That being so 1 propose to deal with only two or three of the matters that are referred to. In the sixth paragraph of his Speech the Governor-General said: 
My Government will continue to support the principles of the United Nations and seek in that way the establishment of enduring peace amongst all nations. 
I find it impossible to reconcile that statement with the performance of the Government over recent years in particular. In my view not only has the Government not supported the principles of the United Nations but also, I believe, it has violated those principles by committing Australian troops to the aggression in Vietnam. 
When the Government decided upon this issue in the early part of 1965 the Party which I am privileged to represent announced its opposition to the commitment. The then leader of my Party stated in clear, unequivocal terms that we would work to reverse the Government's decision. We have made decisions since that time, but always they have been consistent with the initial principle announced by our then Federal leader. I am pleased to say that time and events have proved the Australian Labor Party to have been correct in its initial assessment of the situation in South Vietnam and Vietnam generally. This assessment is being borne out and supported not only by a majority of people in the Commonwealth of Australia but also by responsible people throughout the world. I can assure the Senate that we do not intend to vacate our position of continued opposition to such an involvement. 
In my view April 1965 - the time when the Commonwealth Government made its decision - is the point at which the LiberalCountry Party coalition Government forfeited our dignity and independent status as a nation to become a camp follower of a world power on the pretext of defending the free world against Communism in Indo-China, namely, in .South Vietnam. That was the pretext, but there is no doubt in my mind that there were two major reasons for this decision by the Commonwealth Government. Firstly, I bring to the notice of honourable senators that at or about that time there was an announcement by the White House of an intention to curtail the outflow of capital in terms of foreign investment. It just so happened that the then Treasurer of the Commonwealth, the late  Mr Holt,  was in the United States at that time. There is no doubt in my mind that on his return the announcement by the White House was one of the influences exerted on the Australian Government which caused it to make the decision to commit a battalion of Australian combat troops to Vietnam. 
The second belief held by the Government to justify its decision was the hope that at some time in the future in the event of Australia being attacked by some unknown enemy we could rely on the support of that great world power to protect us. In my view neither of those two reasons is bona fide. The first, which relates to the inhibiting of the steady flow of American capital into Australia, does not stand up to analysis for the simple reason that Australia is recognised as one of the most lucrative fields of investment of any nation in the world, and capital will always find its way to the most profitable areas. The second reason relates to a dependence or reliance on an assumed protection in the future against any nation. We must recognise first and foremost that no nation will commit itself to war unless its own national interests are involved. Therefore I say that there is no justification for any of the three reasons which are, firstly, the pretext of staving off Communism and defending the free world, secondly, the guarantee of a continued flow of American capital and, thirdly, the guarantee of protection in the future in the event of attack by an unknown enemy. So what has been said is true - the Australian Government was prepared to do a deal on the basis of diggers for dollars. 
refer those honourable senators who have not yet read the pronouncements that have been made by the White House - this preceded what is now referred to as the Nixon doctrine - to an article which appeared on page 6 of the Melbourne Sun' on Monday, 24th February 1969 under the heading 'Alliance to fill Asian Power Gap?' The item, which is in the following terms, comes from Australian Associated Press with the dateline Washington, Sunday': 
High US officials want a South Bast Asian Alliance of non-Communist countries formed to safeguard the area's security. 
The alliance would receive military equipment and advice from the US and other foreign nations - but no troops. 
High officials say that New Zealand lacks the resources but Australia could do it except for domestic political considerations. 
The US, once Vietnam is settled, would like to revise or get rid of the Seato alliance, preferably the latter. 
Of the eight members, France and Pakistan have lost all interest, Britain takes no active role and the Philippines wavers. 
Administration officials know that the American public and Congress would oppose the US getting bogged down in another frustrating war like Vietnam elsewhere in Asia. 
If you couple that with the recent statement of the  President  of the United States of America with respect to a projection of America's intentions internationally, it is obvious that we as a nation - a European nation in an Asian sea - will have to find ways and means of fending for ourselves. Contrary to what has been said in today's newspapers consequent upon the statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  last night to the effect that we were rejecting the concept of isolationism, 1 believe that the conduct of Australia in recent years is bringing about the very reverse effect whereby we will be isolated from our near northern neighbours. Seldom do I use a newspaper to support a point of view, but following the decision of the Commonwealth Government in April 1965 to become involved in the combat sense in Vietnam the 'Australian', a newspaper which is widely distributed, carried an editorial. I remember that one part of it in particular was to the effect that Australia was lining up its future generations against the hatred and contempt of resurgent Asian nations without adding one iota of strength to the tragically embroiled American nation. How prophetic that editorial was. 

 Senator Lawrie who preceded me referred lo Communism when addressing himself to the Governor-General's Speech. It seems to me that over the years the Government has been preoccupied with two things in particular, firstly, the alleged threat of Communism to Australia, and secondly, the just demands of the working people of our community. Our view in relation to South East Asia has been that a social and economic revolution is taking place there. We believe that we have been able to assess, interpret and understand precisely what is taking place in that area, it seems to me also that in recent times the Governor-General himself,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, has agreed with our assessment. An article which appeared in the Melbourne 'Sun' of Tuesday, 2nd September 1969 has never been denied or challenged, so I presume it was accurate, because I am sure that the GovernorGeneral would have been prepared to take the newspaper to task if the report had been inaccurate. The article, which carried the heading 'Asia not Red, says  Sir Paul',  is in these terms: 
The revolution in Asia was not Communist, but a resurgence of nationalism, the Governor General,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, said last night. 
Washington and Moscow were just beginning to realise that the revolution was taking place, he said. 
Incidentally  Sir Paul,  the former Minister for External Affairs, was speaking at the Australian-Asian Association dinner at the Hotel Australia. The report stated: 
We are living beside one of the great and significant movements of history, one of the  most  significant things that has happened in the history of the human race.' 

 Sir Paul said Australia should 'have some humility about the great revolutionary movement that is taking place right next door'. 
The report continued: 
Broadly speaking people in the rest of the world have not yet awoken to what is happening in this part of the world'. 
The report goes on: 
He said there was a greater need for understanding. Generalities about Asia must be avoided. 

 Sir Paul said Asia's traditions, culture and institutions 'go back much further than the traditions we inherited from the British Isles'. 
At this stage I can rely on a person who I believe is beyond reproach and who fortifies the opinions expressed over a number of years by the Australian Labor Party. The pretext of committing Australia to military adventures in South East Asia in the so-called defence of the free world against Communism can no longer stand. 
I want to refer briefly to the following passage of the Governor-General's Speech: 
Discussions are taking place between the National Employers' Organisations and the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Government in an endeavour to develop more effective means of avoiding and settling industrial disputes within the framework of the Conciliation and Arbitration system. 
When the statement of alleged support for the principles of the United Nations is related to other references in the Speech it is difficult to place any great credence on the suggestions made by the Government 
I attended the Australian Council of Trade Unions congress held in Sydney last year from 8th to 12th September. We ought to review the events that led up to the point where the Commonwealth Government was obliged to find some way of modifying the arbitration system to avoid what obviously was developing into a very nasty condition of industrial unrest. This of course culminated in the gaoling of a trade union secretary and a welling up of support throughout the Commonwealth by working men and women who objected to the use of the penal clauses of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Before the report was received by about 700 delegates at that congress a letter was presented by the then  president  of the ACTU,  Mr Monk.  That letter had been received from the then Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Bury,  and although it is undated it must have been written just prior to the congress meeting. The letter related to certain agreements which had been reached, at least in terms of preparedness to enter into discussions. I will not weary the Senate or the listening public by reading the two foolscap pages of the letter, but the important reference is contained in the last paragraph. Whilst the Government was prepared to concede on the one hand that there ought to be ways and means other than by the use of the penal clauses to settle industrial disputes the Minister said finally: 
It can bc seen that our emphasis throughout is on solving disputes before they can lead to action of the type that now results in the application of sanctions. It is our intention that sanctions in the form proposed would be used only after all the processes wc have in mind had been exhausted. 
In other words at that early stage the Commonwealth Government was saying without equivocation that irrespective of what may be proposed by the parties in discussion at that time, there must be provisions for sanctions in the industrial laws of this nation. 
The trade union movement has traditionally taken a stand in opposition to such penal clauses, and rightly so. Unlike yesteryear when the general criticisms of the trade union movement and the working people generally were always levelled at the blue collar worker there have been rather phenomenal developments in recent times. 
One such development has been consequent upon the decision of the  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrator,  Mr O'Reilly,  handed down in respect to claims by research scientists. Whilst I do not discount for a moment all other types of legislation which are important either directly or indirectly or which to a lesser or greater extent affect every person in the community, no Act of Parliament has a greater effect upon a greater number of people than has the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is recognised that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is to a large extent the measuring stick of all other industrial courts, whether they be State or Federal. The decisions of the Commission affect not only persons performing the menial tasks of the lowest labouring class but also the whole tertiary level of employment such as scientists, airline pilots and in recent times bank officers. A report in the Melbourne 'Age' of Thursday, 5th February 1970, under the heading 'Scientists bit at meagre wage rises' states: 
Australia's 1,000 Government research scientists ure angry because their pay rise claims have been virtually rejected. 
We are appalled by the decision',  a  spokesman for the CSIRO Officers' Association  (Dr C. K. Coogan)  said last night. 
The Arbitration system seems dedicated to becoming an ann of government.' 
That is a strong criticism indeed. It is an assertion and an allegation that has been levelled at the court for many many years. From my own personal experience and involvement in industrial court actions I have concluded that that allegation made by  Dr Coogan  has some substance. 
I shall refer only briefly to the decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of 12th December 1953 which had the effect of abolishing the automatic quarterly adjustment of wages that had been adopted by the Commission in 1921. 1 recall when reading the transcript the Commonwealth Government appeared - as it may under section 36 of the Act - on that occasion to be impartial. However, outside the court the then Treasurer,  Mr Fadden,  who later became  Sir Arthur  Fadden, registered concern about what he referred to as the spiralling inflationary costs which were affecting the economy, and he placed all the blame for this on the quarterly adjustments to the basic wage. I remind the Senate and the listening community that the adjustments to the basic wage were based on a formula known as the C series index, the information being drawn from the Commonwealth Statistician. Three months had to pass by before an assessment could be made as to whether there had been an increase or a decrease in the prices of the range of commodities within that C series index. In other words, an adjustment could not be made until 3 months after some movement had taken place in the cost structure in terms of the price range of the goods within the regimen. In simple terms, it meant that the worker at that time was 3 months behind the increase that had already taken place in price levels. Therefore, it  is  a fallacy to suggest that wages were responsible for forcing up the price of goods and services. It was the other way around. 
Strangely enough, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decided to abolish quarterly adjustments at that stage and to adopt an annual review. From that time on the Commonwealth Government, to my knowledge, on almost every occasion has opposed the reintroduction of quarterly adjustments to the basic wage, irrespective of what formula may be used. There is no doubt that the formula which was used prior to 1953 needed updating to meet modern day requirements. I think it can be said that the criticisms of the ACTU and the criticisms of white collar organisations are justified and that unless the Commonwealth Government is prepared to take heed of the extensive opposition to the continuance of the use of sanctions in industrial laws in this Commonwealth this practice will lead to an inevitable clash. I think we must also recognise that no matter how perfect the system we might provide for the regulation of wages and physical conditions of employment, we cannot avoid some industrial disputes because we have a clash of direct opposites. The employer on the one hand and the employee on the other have different interests. This has been proved by a survey of international status which shows conclusively that where there have been stringent industrial laws, including sanction provisions, the level of industrial disputes is inclined to be higher than the level to be found in countries where there are no such provisions. 
I have almost exhausted my time. I want to say in passing that a senator on the Government side the other day made a facetious remark about the strength, unity, dedication and purpose of the Australian Labor Party. I assure the Government and the people of Australia that we recognise the confidence that has been placed in us as a result of the election of 25th October 1969. We do not intend to betray that confidence. We will be acting in the best interests of the majority of primary voters of Australia. We acknowledge, and 1 am sure they acknowledge now that the Government is a second preference government, and the Governor-General's Speech discloses very clearly a second rate projection of legislation which we anticipate will come before this chamber in due course. 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Minister aware of rising unemployment in the manufacturing and servicing industries in the country towns of Victoria as a result of the depressed state of the rural industries? If so, what action, if any, will be taken to alleviate the hardship which is experienced by those affected? If the Minister is not aware of the present situation will he undertake to give urgent attention to the problem so that an assessment can be made of its extent and the remedial measures necessary, to assist the people affected? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of a statement attributed in this morning's Melbourne 'Age' to  Mr Chandler,  the Victorian Minister for Agriculture,  iD  which he attacked the Commonwealth Government's decision to allow the sale overseas of merino rams? In a written answer to a question asked by  Mr Edmunds,  the honourable member for Moonee Ponds,  Mr Chandler  is reported to have said that the Victorian Government believes that there were strong reasons for opposing the sale of merino rams to competitors overseas. Will the honourable gentleman acquaint the Minister with the expressed opposition of the Victorian Government to the Commonwealth decision to allow such sales? 
I wish to support the urgency motion moved by the Opposition in respect of the reintroduction by the Government of a waiting period for war service homes finance. I have been amazed by the resistance offered by honourable senators opposite on a matter of the utmost importance because the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame 
Annabelle Rankin) has acknowledged in the answers she has given to questions addressed to her yesterday and today that there will not necessarily be a rejection of applications for loans by persons who are eligible for financial assistance from the War Service Homes Division, but that there will be deferment of those applications. Last night the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  in answering a question addressed to him by  Sir John  Cramer, referred to the point which is the crux of the urgency motion moved today by the Opposition.  Sir John  Cramer asked:  ls the Prime Minister aware that the allocation of funds for loans to ex-servicemen for the purchase of homes for the current year has been exhausted? ls he also aware that there arc several hundred applications for loans which have been approved and that contracts for the purchase of homes have been entered into but that no money is available? The Prime Minister will realise that if these are facts a great number of ex-servicemen will be placed in the position that they will have to borrow bridging finance at excessively high rates of interest to complete their transactions while they are awaiting the availability of their loan from the War Service Homes Division. will the Prime Minister consider making available an immediate special grant to the War Service Homes Division to enable it to complete the transactions referred to? 
The Prime Minister replied: 
In reply to the first part of the question, yes, I am aware that the funds available for war service homes during this financial year have now been spent. 
I emphasise the words "have now been spent'. The Prime Minister went on: 
I might point out to ibc House that during this financial year the Government made available for war service homes a sum of S55m, which is S5m more than the year before. As the honourable member said, this increased amount has already been spent. 
After an interjection from the Opposition the Prime Minister continued: 
In reply to the second part of the question, I am aware that there are some hundred of applicants who have applications for loans for the purchase of existing buildings - existing houses - and these are distinct from applicants for loans for the building of houses. There are some hundreds of these, and as a result of the money voted having been exhausted these applicants who normally would have received the loans for which they have applied in May or June will have to wait until July in order to receive their loans. 
The Prime Minister proved conclusively that there is a gap between applications and available finance, notwithstanding the increase this year of $5m to an allocation of $55m. The Prime Minister acknowledged that those funds have been exhausted.  Sir John  Cramer, a former Minister for the Army, acknowledged in his question that applicants for war service home loans, in order to obtain bridging finance, will have to pay excessively high rates of interest. This is the concern of the Opposition. 1, and I am sure other honourable senators, have not been impressed by the attempt made by the honourable senators opposite to cloud the issue by summarising the performance of Liberal and Country Party Governments since 1949. They have sought to gloss over the present situation. From their remarks one could be led to imagine that the Government is doing exservicemen a favour at the expense of taxpayers. 
Government supporters have said that since 1949 Liberal and Country Party Governments have allocated $1.2 billion to war service homes finance. It has been implied thai that has been done at the expense of the taxpayers, but that is not the case. From time to time the interest rate charged on war service home loans is varied. The present rate is quite reasonable at 32%. Nevertheless, it returns a handsome and substantial return to the Government, as the figures that 1 will cite for the past 3 years clearly show. In 1966-67 expenditure by the War Service Homes Division was $59,122,000 and receipts totalled $67,050,000. In 1967-68 expenditure was $46,019,000 and receipts were $69,165,313. Expenditure in 1968-69 was $50,190,522 and receipts totalled S72.621.597. It is plain that war service homes financing is quite a lucrative business for the Government. I understand that the excess of revenue over expenditure finds its way back into Consolidated Revenue. We do not quarrel with that procedure but we emphasise that there is a gap between the amount sought by applicants and the funds available. 
The Government should at least recognise that situation. The Government has a responsibility to exservicemen and exservicewomen who are eligible for war service home finance. We do not believe that a distinction should be drawn between finance to purchase an existing home and finance to build a new home. A home is being purchased, whichever way it is looked at. The Government must recognise, as has been made abundantly clear, that it  is  necessary to cater for the gap between applications and available funds. A shortfall has occurred in the amount allocated for war service home loans. 
We are confident that even at this late stage the Government has the facilities speedily and accurately to ascertain the amount required. My colleagues have repeatedly stated that the Opposition urges the Government to make an immediate special grant to the War Service Homes Division. We believe that this step would obviate the necessity for bridging finance. Bridging finance adds costs in legal fees and exorbitant interest charges that must be paid by home-seeking ex-servicemen. We do not believe that they should have that added burden thrust upon them. 
Government supporters have referred to the performance of the Government over the years in the field of war service homes finance. I wish to refer now to a very elaborate and well presented brochure published to celebrate the fiftieth year of the war service homes scheme, from 1919 to 1969. The publication states that in 1966 it was possible to eliminate the waiting period for a war service homes loan, lt then states: 
From that time finance has been available on request, subject only to the applicant's proposal meeting the requirements of the Act. 
We believe that as it was possible in 1966 to eliminate the waiting period - and we commend the people responsible for that position - we see no reason why, 4 years later, a waiting period should be reintroduced. lt took a long time to eliminate the waiting period. I challenge the argument advanced by honourable senators opposite that an unexpected increase has occurred in applications for assistance from the War Service Homes Division. I shall explain why I make that challenge. Annual reports of the War Service Homes Division show that the number of approvals for loans in 1965-66 was 11,105; in 1966-67 it was 7,195; 6,788 in 1967-68; and 7,202 in 1968-69. Surely to goodness it cannot fairly be argued by the Government that the increase in the number of applications is so astronomical as to upset all the calculations of the Division. Obviously it ascertains and collates the information to be submitted to the Minister for presentation to Cabinet. 
Even if the needs of the War Service Homes Division have been underestimated we say that it is not too late at least to recognise the necessity to provide additional finance to assist ex-servicemen and exservicewomen who have been prepared voluntarily to serve to protect this nation, or who have been conscripted to take up arms in other parts of the world. We have an immediate and continuing commitment to these people, at least. I do not accept the suggestion from honourable senators opposite that a person can go to a bank, see the bank manager, and, simply because he has a notice from the War Service Homes Division advising him of its approval of a loan, feel that on that basis he has a guarantee that the bank will provide the bridging finance that he requires. 
It seems to me that the Government is playing into the hands of a system of financing which has grown up by and large outside what might be described as the legitimate banking system. As a consequence people are paying far more than reasonable interest for a small loan over a short period. This is a situation that the Government has no justification for ignoring at this stage. I can understand the resentment of the Government because of the criticism that has been levelled against it, but I cannot accept :he Government's rejection of the proposal that even at this late stage it should take measures to correct the situation. I can assure the Government that the Opposition would facilitate the expeditious passage of any measure which would assist ex-servicemen in the purchase of a home without the need for additional bridging finance for which he would have to pay so exorbitantly. 
 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Is the Minister aware that many thousands of employees of the Postal Department have not received the 3% wage increase based on the total wage case as determined by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on 3rd December 1969? If the Minister is aware of the position, I ask: What action is the Postmaster-General taking to rectify this intolerable situation and to avoid undue delay in the future in the payment of wageincreases to employees? 
I wish to associate myself with the remarks made by members of the Australian Labor Party in support of the proposed Moratorium to be held on 8th, 9th and 10th May. In passing I want to relate to the Senate some of the thoughts that passed through my mind while I was listening to  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae.  It took me back a number of years. My late father was a member of the Australian Labor Party before me. I can remember talking to Dad on one occasion about politics. He pointed out a technique which had been employed very successfully over the years by those forces which were ranged against Labor. He took me back to the early days following the Russian Revolution in 1917. The Labor Party was comparatively young at that stage too. The technique employed then by the same forces which arc ranged against Labor today was to display huge posters depicting a gruesome looking figure with wire whiskers clutching a little child in his hand with blood running out. The caption underneath said: 'A vote for the Labor Parly is a vote for this.' The technique has not changed. 
I am fully convinced that the Government is disturbed. I think that an editorial in today's 'Australian' bears repeating in part and I propose to do so. It stated: 

 Dr. J. F. Cairns, the Federal Labor MP for Lalor, fully deserves the compliment unwittingly paid him by the Government yesterday.  His  leadership of the anti-war, anti-conscription movement behind the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign has been forthright and courageous in the face of considerable political risk. 
The momentum of the campaign and  Dr Cairns'  role in it have alarmed the Government. That much was obvious by the decision to mount yesterday's attack in the Federal Parliament. And the manner of the attack, launched by the Attorney-General,  Mr Hughes,  fully illustrated the type of risk that was to be expected in accepting leadership of such a campaign. 
In the event the Government and  Mr Hughes  succeeded only in discrediting themselves.  Mr Hughes'  speech was an extraordinary tissue of conjecture, smear, insinuation and double-thinking, unworthy of the official imprimatur of either the Government or the Attorney-General. 
From a Government which has abdicated its responsibility for formulating a policy on Vietnam, the hysteria of yesterday's attack may not be as artificial as it sounded. It has no effective answer left for its critics. It has locked itself into an American policy which it finds working increasingly against its previously defined interests. 
But the certainty of being embarrassed by demonstrations gives the Government no valid grounds for opposing them. 
It went on to say: 

 Mr Hughes was hard pressed to find even a red smear to frighten away possible supporters of the campaign. 
I will read all of it because it is an editorial which merits inclusion in Hansard. It continues: 
The whole basis of the Government's attempt to proscribe the demonstrations comes down to a ludicrous claim that the organisers cannot guarantee non-violence. 
How they could be expected to offer such a guarantee is beyond comprehension. The relevant facts are they plan no violence, advocate nonviolence and know full well that to be proved responsible for violence would only damage their cause. In his speech yesterday  Mr Hughes  was the first commentator of any significance to present violence as an inevitable part of the coming campaign. 
What makes demonstration by, say, farmers a proper exercise of free speech and free assembly while those by opponents of the Vietnam war are an 'Illicit and dangerous, abuse', 'the naked, physical power of the mob',  Mr Hughes  did not attempt to explain. The real point of the moratorium Campaign he did explain but refused to accept. 
It is  a  moratorium on 'business as usual' at home while a disastrous war continues in Vietnam; a harsh reminder of facts the Australian Government would prefer forgotten; an exercise of democratic freedoms to express strongly-held convictions with due force. This is what the Government, by its attitude yesterday, is attempting to deny its opponents. 
Significantly, there was no attempt to dispute  Dr Cairns'  repeated claim that the citizens' rights to use public places for political purposes are the same as their rights to use those places for commercial or social purposes. Nor is it denied that  a  citizen with strong enough feelings against a particular law - be it for conscription or obstructing footpaths - can break it. He may pay the consequences but he may also help to change the law, as many events in recent times have shown. 
In the abject state of Australian policy on Vietnam, the Moratorium Campaign deserves support.  Dr Cairns  deserves commendation for leading it. If these activities help to hasten the withdrawal of Australian forces, and to end the war in Vietnam, they will be a signal achievement for the democratic process. 
That is the editorial from the 'Australian'. 
I want to refer again to the middle of that editorial where it refers to the fact that in his speech yesterday the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  was 'the first commentator of any significance to present violence as an inevitable part of the coming campaign'. I believe, quite seriously, that the Attorney-General's speech reveals a deliberate attempt on the part of the Government to do a number of things. Firstly it represents an attempt by the Government do discredit the campaign against the war in Vietnam and to intimidate the people while at the same time promoting in the minds of people a sense of the inevitability of violence. 1 have no hesitation in saying that there will be forces organised by those who support the war in Vietnam to bring about the violence which they say should not be entertained at this Moratorium. Scenes of violence have occurred before: there is no doubt that they will happen again. 1 want now to refer briefly to an article in yesterday's Melbourne 'Age'. It is an article on public affairs written by Bruce Grant, lt is headed: 'Long way from anarchy' and states: 
I don't share the Gorton Governments concern that the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign next month is 'an invitation to anarchy'. 
He went on to say: 
The Government appears to bc working itself into an indignant lather over the Vietnam Moratorium not because anyone believes the demonstra tion is a threat to established government but because there is political capital to be made from it. 
If the demonstrators clash with the police it is believed both the Gorton Government, which is making an issue of law and order, and the Bolte Government, which faces elections next month, will benefit. 
I think those words highlight the fact that the Government is desperate and desperate men resort to desperate measures. As a consequence the Moratorium Campaign has been raised in the Senate this evening. I am not as acquainted with the Standing Orders as I would like to be - I guarantee that I will be in due course - but it seems to me that the raising of this matter tonight in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate was aimed at trying to carry on from where the matter was left in another place yesterday in the hope that the Government might be able lo score. 
References were made this evening to the horror being registered by the combined forces arraigned in this place against the Australia Labor Party about the possibility of children being brought into this campaign. 1 certainly do not appreciate the possibility of youngsters being affected in any shape or form by war but I cannot sit quiet, and never will, while we are able to view such carnage as was produced in pictorial form in the 'Sunday Observer' of 14th December 1969. I am not concerned about who is responsible. What I atn concerned about is that it can happen and that it is in fact happening. We are endeavouring to bring about a cessation of the useless futility of this war in Vietnam where there is a continued repeat of what appeared in ihe 'Observer' of 14th December last year. How you,  Senator Greenwood,  can sit there smugly in your place with a look of contented complacency, I just cannot understand. I believe that a report which appeared in the 'Australian' of 29th January 1970 titled 'They Feel Guilty Because They Survived' should be recorded in Hansard 
 I am not sure what my friend opposite is speaking about but I propose lo read to the Senate, when 1 have the opportunity - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! 
Thank you for your protection,  Sir, but  I can assure you that I have buried better rubbish than I have seen opposite this evening. 
I said that I have buried better rubbish than I have seen here this evening. I propose to read this when I have the opportunity. The article is titled They Feel Guilty Because They Survived' and carries the date line 'Washington, Wednesday'. lt reads: 
The Vietnam war was producing a large pool of young, embittered veterans who would have more mental problems than veterans of other wars, a former Air Force psychiatrist told a US Senate subcommittee yesterday. 
This was because of the unsettled nature of the war - wilh emphasis on guerilla fighting, unstable battle lines and a distrust of all Vietnamese - combined with a lack of support at home, said  Dr R.  J. Lifton,  a psychiatrist at Yale. "The inability to find significance or meaning in their extreme experience leaves many Vietnam veterans with a terrible burden of survivor guilt', said  Dr Lifton 
Even more important, the GI is denied the minimal psychological satisfaction of war - ritualised battles that allow him to fight the enemy with valour across a stable front line'. 
Massacres such as the one alleged to have occurred at My Lai gave the soldiers momentary illusion that by shooting people equated with the enemy - even babies, women and old men - they were finally involved in a genuine military action, he said. 
These actions required a 'psychic numbing - the loss of the capacity to feel - and general brutalisation'. 
It would seem to me that we have some people sitting opposite this evening who have been affected in precisely the same way as the psychiatrist mentions in relation to the unfortunate veterans who have returned from Vietnam. The other reference I want to make is that in another place last evening a gentleman who had something like 20 years service with the Department of External Affairs gave his attention to a debate- 
It is  Mr Morrison,  the honourable member for St George. He was able to show very effectively, in another place last evening, that the Government could not produce any document that showed that in fact in 1965 it had received a request from the Government of Vietnam to supply combat forces. He was able to prove that quite successfully because the gentleman who followed him in the debate, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  appeared to ignore his contribution. That being so, in my view it proves conclusively that there was no answer to the charges made by  Mr Morrison  to the effect that the Government had lied initially and had sought to perpetuate that lie in order to sustain its position in respect of its commitment in Vietnam, 
I have no hesitation in saying that as long as I have breath in my body and I am associated with people who are prepared to stand up and be counted against the decision that was made in 1965 to commit Australian troops to Vietnam, I will encourage, I will assist and I will do everything in my power to rally public opinion to defeat this Government. 
It would seem to me that it is not a question of  Senator Brown  frightening  Senator Sim.  The fact is that the welling up of support for the opposition to the Government's decision obviously concerns him. 
These loose terms are thrown about. It is like the use that is made, quite cleverly and insidiously, by innuendo, of people's associations. People can say all sorts of things, but they have to have the courage to stand up and be counted. 
That is fair enough. What I am saying is simply that I believe that the Moratorium is soundly based. It is designed to bring to the attention of the public and to focus public attention upon the continued commitment in Vietnam. We are asking people to pause, to take time out to think about what this means. It is true that there has been a substantial movement or shift of support - one might describe it as dramatic - towards Labor's policy, as distinct from the Government's policy, over the last 3 or 4 years. I am convinced that this will be even more obvious as time goes by. 
In the course of the general election campaign in 1966 the Government used an old technique which had proved successful over the years and again was successful. The Labor Party certainly suffered heavily in terms of electoral defeat. Notwithstanding that, I am satisfied that in 1969 one of the contributing factors to the Labor Party's increased electoral support was the fact that we had stood firm in 1966. Time and events in Vietnam between 1966 and 1969 had proved that we were right. The Government has now come to recognise that it is entangled in such a way that it cannot, as it sees it. save face and withdraw in the way in which it should. So it has to resort to the only method that is left to it; that is, to use the technique of a poor sportsman. He starts to scrag the other fellow who is playing too well for him. That is the technique to which the Government is resorting tonight. I repeat that T am pleased to be associated with the Moratorium Campaign committee and the demonstrations that are to be held on 8th, 9th and 10th May. I hope that they are the success that we and the others who are associated with the Moratorium Campaign committee expect them to be. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Housing. On Tuesday. 7th April, in reply to several questions asked from this side of the chamber she indicated that there were no restrictions or delays on the availability of finance for war service homes being constructed by approved applicants. Does that position still prevail, or are any approved applicants who are building homes or who have completed the construction of homes now being advised that no finance is available before July 1970? 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Will the Minister have tabled in this chamber any documents purporting to represent a request from the South Vietnam Government in 1965 tor military assistance from the Australian Government? 
During the last 3 weeks attention has been focussed upon war service homes finance. This was done at the behest of the Australian Labor Party both in this place and in the other place. It was done by asking questions and by a 3-hour debate on a matter of urgency introduced by the Opposition because of the Government's re-introduction of a waiting period for war service homes finance. Yesterday I asked a question of the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  to which I propose to refer. I asked it in these terms: 
I direct a question to the Minister for Housing. On Tuesday, 7th April, in reply to several questions asked from this side of the chamber she indicated that there were no restrictions or delays on the availability of finance for war service homes being constructed by approved applicants. Does that position still prevail, or are any approved applicants who are building homes or who have completed the construction of homes now being advised that no finance is available before July 1970? 
In answer to the question,  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin replied: 
It is quite true that on certain dates in the past I replied to a number of questions concerning war service homes finance which were directed to me by honourable senators. I informed them then that there was one area in which there was a period of waiting time. I do not know whether the honourable senator is referring to an individual case in which there may be some particular difficulty. If he is, and if he will let me know of the individual case, I will certainly find out what the situation is. But my answer on the overall position is the same as the one I gave in reply to the questions recently. 
I respect the Minister's offer about supplying her with information on individual cases. My dificulty is in endeavouring to reconcile the answers given to the numerous questions asked on 7th April and the references made to war service homes finance during the course of the debate on the matter of urgency on 8th April. The Minister made a distinction between finance available for existing dwellings, on the one hand, and finance available for. the construction of a home, on the other. I think it is important that I refer briefly, without wearying the Senate, to the many questions asked on 7th April. The answers to those questions disclose that a definite distinction was made. Not only was a distinction made between the two types of finance - the finance for an existing dwelling and the finance for the construction of a new home - but the Minister said in answer to  Senator McClelland: 
May 1 just continue answering the honourable senator's question? I remind him that wo increased the allocation by $5m in the last Budget.I also inform him and the Senate that even with the increase the allocation has not been sufficient to meet the applications, which have been greater than estimated. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was asked a similar question by the former Minister for the Army, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  During the debate on the matter of urgency the Minister for Housing repeated 5 times the distinction between the two types of finance. I can understand the Minister for Housing repeating the reply of the Prime Minister.  Sir John  Cramer asked the Prime Minister: Is  the Prime Minister aware that the allocation of funds for loans to ex-servicemen for the purchase of homes for the current year has been exhausted? 
The Prime M inister replied: 
In reply to the first part of the question, yes, 1 am aware that the funds available for war service homes during this financial year have now been spent. 
I quoted the first part of the honourable member's question. That statement coincides with the statement made by the Minister for Housing in reply to the question asked by  Senator McClelland.  The Prime Minister went on to say:  1 would like to add to that that those who are applicants for loans for building their own houses, as distinct from buying existing buildings, will not in any way be affected by the matter which the honourable member has raised. 
I find  a  difficulty in reconciling the clear statement made by the Prime Minister that the funds allocated for the 1969-70 year  to  the War Service Homes Division had been spent  with  the latter part of his reply thatI have just quoted. The Prime Minister used the term 'exhausted' in another part of his reply. Likewise the Minister for Housing has confirmed that statement. They create a distinction between finance for an existing dwelling and finance for the building of a new home. Since the debate on 8th April on the matter of urgency raised by the Opposition. I have had a telephone call from a constituent who related  to  me what he described  - andI  believe described rightly - as the problem he was having with the War Service Homes Division in Victoria. Accordingly I suggested to him to be good enough to write to me and set out the experience he had had and at the same time to forward to me any documents such as letters that he may have received from the Department of Housing. The letter that  Mr Ansell  of Lot 1, Clements Avenue, Belgrave South, Victoria, wrote to me reads as follows: 
I wish to draw your attention to my case regarding war service loan. 
I made application in August1969 which was approved by the commission in November 1969. 
I engaged a private contractor to build and he had it to the lockup stage late in December. I made inquiries at the commission  as,to  the possibility of obtaining progressive payments, or alternatively an early settlement on completion. I made out an application relating to above, and at the same time was told by  Mr Cannard- 
He is an officer of the Victorian branch of the Division - 
. that the full amount would be paid nut 3 weeks after the final inspection and valuation. As I wanted to avoid taking on the burden of bridging finance I approached the builder and he agreed to go on and finish the house, with the provision that 1 pay interest on his overdraft for the money he had laid out to date. Now that the house is completed and the final inspection and valuation has taken place, the commission informs me that payment cannot be made until July. 
I am in receipt of a Service pension plus 80% war pension. I am at present living in a substandard house, and if I have to stay here into the winter I will spend a lot of time in RGH as I have 9 accepted war disabilities which include a respiratory complaint; so living in a cold damp house will aggravate my condition to a degree. 
I am already indebtedto the builder for $300 and by July it will be another $300. My house is ready to live in but he won't give me occupancy until payment has been made by the commission. Enclosed are some papers relative to my statement. 
In checking to ascertain the veracity of the claim made by the constituent, I rang the Victorian branch of the War Service Homes Division and spoke to  Mr Cannard  on Monday morning of this week.  Mr Cannard  referred me to another person who was handling this file at this stage. That person was able to advise me that  Mr Ansell  had established his eligibility, that the loan had been approved as far back as 30th October 1969, that an inspection had been carried out by the Division on 28th January 1970 and that there appeared to be no reason why the application should not now be met - except that I was informed that no finance was available until July 1970. 
Now I wish to read to the Senate a letter that confirms the information given to me by the Division over the telephone in answer to my questions. It is a very interesting letter. It is dated 30th October 1969 and is from the Department of Housing, E.S. &amp; A. Bank Building, 460 Bourke Street. Melbourne. It is addressed to  Mr Ansell,  who was then at 84 Elgin Street, Hawthorn, Victoria. It reads: 
In connection with your application to erect a dwelling-house with temporary finance to be discharged by a loan under the War Service Homes Act upon completion of the home, it is advised that your eligibility has been established and your request to proceed with construction of the home with temporary finance is approved. . . . 
When advice is received from you that construction of the home has been completed, the property will be inspected in order to determine whether it represents a suitable security for the purpose of a loan under the War Service Homes Act. While any unsatisfactory features noted at the time of the inspection will be brought to your notice, no responsibility is accepted by the Director of War Service Homes for any defects not detected during the inspection. 
I am not reading every paragraph of the letter. I do not want to weary the Senate. The letter goes on to say: 
There is no waiting period at present for finance under the War Service Homes Act, and it ls expected that it will be possible to make a loan available to you as soon as you have met all requirements. However, this cannot be regarded as a commitment as conditions may change in the meantime. When arranging temporary finance you should ensure that this ls available for an ample period until your loan under the War Service Homes Act is available. 
I find the last part of that last paragraph very difficult to understand. The letter indicates clearly in the opening paragraph that  Mr Ansell  has established his eligibility for war service homes finance and advises him to proceed with the construction of the home with temporary finance. Another paragraph says: 
When advice is received from you that construction of the home has been completed, the property will be inspected in order to determine whether it represents a suitable security for the purpose of a loan under the War Service Homes Act. 
I have established by questions to the Division that all requirements have been met. Only one question was raised. -I was asked to advise  Mr Ansell  that he owed the Division $7 because a further inspection had been carried out. Some correction was to be made to some plumbing. But I repeat that I was informed that all requirements had been met. I also repeat that this letter informed the approved applicant on 30th October 1969 as follows: 
There is no waiting period at present for finance under the War Service Homes Act, and it is expected that it will be possible to make a loan available to you as soon as you have met all requirements. 

 Mr Ansel] indicated in his letter that the house was up to the lock-up stage in December 1969. He said that he asked  Mr Cannard  of the Division whether it was possible to obtain progressive payments or an early settlement on completion, and he was advised by  Mr Cannard  that this would be possible within 3 weeks after the final inspection and valuation. There is no doubt in my mind after checking this matter out as I have. I have the receipt from the Department of Housing for $11 for the valuation and inspection. It is dated 28th January 1970. I also have the original letters from the solicitors for the builder, K. J. Waters Pty Ltd. 
I believe that it is important that I relate these matters to the Senate because they point up that, even with the use of what may be described as average overdraft rates of interest - namely 8% - a person is being committed to the use of bridging finance for the purchase of his home because he cannot obtain a loan from the War Service Homes Division and that involves the payment of up to 600 if he obtains the loan by 1st July 1970. That is 600 for which he receives precisely nothing. A letter dated 11th December 1969 from K. J. Waters Pty Ltd, builders and contractors of 3 Wimmera Street, Box Hill North, to  Mr and Mrs Ansell  reads as follows: 
Dear  Mr and Mrs Ansell,  re: Building Contract Lot 5, Cambridge Street. 
We regret that owing to the delay in receiving progress payment on above building contract, it is our intention to apply an interest charge of 8% on $4,000 dating from 1st day of November 1969. 
A letter dated 10th March 1970 from Madden, Butler, Elder and Graham - a firm of solicitors acting on behalf of the builder - to  Mr and Mrs Ansell  reads as follows: 
I direct a question to the Minister for Housing. Does the Government acknowledge that war service homes finance of S55m for the year 1969-70 has been exhausted? If not, will the Minister inform this chamber of the total amount remaining of the original allocation? If the Government concedes that all war service homes finance for the year 1969-70 has been spent, is it prepared to make a special grant to the War Service Homes Division and thus relieve approved applicants now awaiting loan finance of the burden of interest charges on bridging finance? Will the Minister treat this matter with urgency? 
Budget would be adequate for the requirements of applicants. As I have informed the honourable senator, an increased number of applications was received. As I have explained, in some cases there is now a slight delay before loans can be provided. This is only in respect of existing dwellings. That is exactly the answer I have given the honourable senator previously. That is the situation. 
In directing my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister I remind him of the question 1 asked of him on 22nd April which was in these terms: 
Will the Minister have tabled in this chamber any documents purporting to represent a request from the South Vietnam Government in 1965 for military assistance from the Australian Government. 
The Minister asked me to put my question on notice. I did so. I now ask why there should be a delay in answering this question which refers to a decision made by the Australian Government some 5 years ago? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: lt is a fact that many thousands of postaemployees have not yet received the 3 per cent wage increase based on the national total wage case, as determined by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on 3rd December 1969; if so, what action is the Postmaster-General taking to rectify this situation and avoid undue delay in the future payment of wage increases to employees. 
It is a fact that all Post Office staff have not yet been paid the wage increase arising from the National Wage Award. To date 91,700 (86%) have been paid with 15,200 (14%) to be paid on the pay days 7th May and 21st May. All staff in Tasmania were paid by 26th March, all in Western Australia by 9th April and all in South Australia by 23rd April. Those still to be paid comprise 3,100 in Queensland (21% of Slate total), 4,100 in Victoria (14.7%) and 8,000 in New South Wales (20%). To ensure that the staff not yet paid receive the increase no later than 21st May 1970, extensive overtime is continuing in the stall pay areas supplemented by staff from other areas. 
With the number of staff to be paid (106,900) the processing of the normalfortnightly pay is no mean task. Approximately 70% of total staff subscribe to the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund under a complex scheme of contributions. Special allowance payments have to be calculated fortnightly for a high percentage of staff involving mainly higher duties, overtime, penalty rates, excess travelling time and travelling allowances. In addition, for example, many lines staff regularly receive functional allowances covering approximately 290 functions and involving upwards of 530 combinations of payment, and the attached statement lists some of the functions for which allowances are payable. 
As well as the addition of allowances to pay and the statutory deduction of superannuation contributions and taxation instalments, other deductions are made on request by staff for such items as group assurance premiums, hospital and medical benefits contributions, association/union dues, credit union deductions, National Savings Group deposits and Postal Institute dues. 
Deductions for association/union dues are increasing as more unions take advantage of this new facility. 
The proposed new Health Act would be expected to increase the incidence of variation to deductions for medical benefits contributions to a marked degree. 
Most Awards and Determinations which affect only a segment of the Department at any one time have been processed speedily by the working of overtime. However, the recent National Wage Award applied to every member of the staff of the Post Office and involved action on superannuation adjustments for every contributor - this work being superimposed on normal pay. 
Notwithstanding the use of maximum overtime, weekend work and the deployment of staff from other areas, the delay in completing payment of the National Wage Award is of great concern to Post Office management. The staff of the pay processing areas is to be further increased and specially trained task forces established to provide peak period assistance on an overtime basis. By this means it is confidently expected that future major awards will be paid within 4 complete pay periods after receipt of the necessary instructions from the Public Service Board and the Superannuation Board. 
A feasibility study into computerising of staff pay is being undertaken. 
The Director-General, Posts and Telegraphs, has recently invited the Association/Unions concerened to participate in a Joint Department/Union Working Party to consider the proposals being immediately implemented and to examine what else can be done. 
Functions for which Special Allowances Payable to Lines Staff 
In addition to salary, according to classification, Lines Staff personnel are paid allowances for the performance of certain functions. The rates of allowance vary on an incremental basis according to periods of employment on the particular work concerned. 
The following are representative of the functions for which allowances are payable: 
* Felling trees involving climbing on boardsor shoes. 
* Building chases, pits or manholes in situ; handling explosives (including powder monkey); casting pipes or conduit in situ; reinforcing timber work in tunnels; operating machine rammers, basers, pavement breakers and similar tools over 50 lb weight (excluding point tool); tool fettler; erecting scaffolding on bridges. 
* Driving and operating mobile cranes having various tonnage capacities - a salary range is prescribed for the function with incremental advancement subject to compliance with normal provisions governing incremental advancement. 
* Driving and operating pneumatic tyred tractors up to 50 B.H.P. (excluding Front-end and Overhead Loaders). 
* Driving and operating Crawler Tractors up to and including 6,000 S.W.P. (excluding Front-end and Overhead Loaders). 
* Driving and operating small trench excavators of the Ditch Witch type. 
* Driving and operating pneumatic tyred tractors over 50 B.H.P. and up to and including 100 B.H.P. 
* Driving and operating Crawler Tractors over 6,000 S.W.P. and up to and including 15,000 S.W.P. 
* Driving and operating chain type trenching machines up to and including 5 feet depth or up to and including 12" width. 
* Driving and operating Motor Cable Hauling Winches. 
* Operating Post Hole Borers (including driving of unit to which attached). 
* Operating Horizontal Earth Auger. 
*  Operating mechanically operated Duct Rodder. 
* Operating Back Hoes. 
*  Driving and operating Crawler Tractors over 15,000 S.W.P. and up to and including 40,000 S.W.P. 
*  Driving and operating power operated graders below 50 B.H.P. 
*  Driving and operating Front-end and Overhead loaders over 1 cubic yard and up to and including 3 cubic yards capacity. 
*  Driving and operating Crawler Tractor over 40,000 S.W.P. 
*  Driving and operating trenching machines with depth greater than 8 feet and minimum width of 18" and bucket wheel trencher with equivalent capacity in cubic yards. 
*  Driving and operating power operated Grader from 50 B.H.P. upwards. 
*  Operating Compressor. 
*  Driving and Operating Truck Mounted Hoist. 
*  Operating Concrete Paving Saw. 
*  Driving and Operating Straddle Truck. 
*  Operating Machine Dessicating Plant. 
*  Operating Non-Portable Motor Pump-Major Type. 
*  Complex Manhole Building. 
*  Employment in charge of Divisional or auxiliary Divisional Lines Store involving control of at least two other men. 
*  Shot Tiring. 
*  Driving Motor Vehicle (Non Articulated Vehicles) - 7 rates based on vehicle carrying capacity. 
*  Driving Motor Vehicle (Articulated Vehicles) - 22 rates. 
*  Driving and operating specified mechanical aids. 
*  Industry allowance. 
*  Towing-Pole Trailer: Pole Jinker; 4 Wheel Trailer: Mobile Kitchen - additional allowances for nature of vehicle towed, or - Hand truck (single pole); Stores Trailer; 2 Wheeled General Trailer: Compressor; Cable Trailer; Cable Winch Trailer; Ditcher: Caravan additional allowance for nature of vehicle towed. or - Joint Trailers: Lineman's Hand Cart; Concrete Mixer; Water Furphy - additional allowance for nature of vehicle towed. 
*  Party Leader/ Leading Hand (Excluding Store Party). 
An employee is paid additional salary based on the Lineman Grade 2 salary range whilst in charge of a party which including himself is comprised of - 3-5 employees 6-15 employees 16-30 employees 31 employees and over. 
The allowance payable varies according to the  size of the party involved. 
*  Second-in-charge Party of 5 or more - payable within the Lineman Grade 2 salary range. In charge sub-party of 3 or more Men (including himself) - salary range applicable to Lineman Grade 2 plus allowance. 
*  Penman (District Works Division) - appropriate salary range with incremental advancement within salary scale. 
*  Cable Jointing/Cable Distribution. 
*  Lineman-in-Training. 
*  Pole Inspector. 
*  Balancing Cable. 
*  Working in Wet Trench. 
*  Working at Depth. 
*  Concrete pouring in Rain. 
One could not read the reports of the conferences of Commonwealth and State Ministers that have been held in recent years without coming to the conclusion that the States are thoroughly dissatisfied - and in most instances justifiably - insofar as their treatment in respect of CommonwealthSlate financial relations is concerned, In my view the motion that has been moved by  Senator Little  is a proposal to divest the Commonwealth Government of its economic responsibility for the management of this nation. I do not believe that a committee of such a character would have either the capacity and/or ability or the time to be able to analyse thoroughly in depth and detail the broad subject matter which is contained in the proposal. It is true lhat in the year 1970 the agreement that was reached in 1965 will be renegotiated. lt is also true to say that in 1965 the Premier of Victoria gave notice that in his view the formula that was being agreed to would not meet the demands of the States, lt must be conceded that on that occasion the prediction made by  Sir Henry  Bolte was proved to be correct inside 12 months. 
In introducing this subject matter  Senator Little  endeavoured to suggest to the Senate that this was a matter over and above politics. In my view that is, to say the least, a calculated insult to the intelligence of the people of Australia, because every decision that has been made by the Commonwealth Government over the years has affected the broad range of fiscal measures which ultimately bring together the revenues which at some point of time by negotiation and/ or by a predetermined decision are allocated to the States. That in itself is a political decision. 
Although  Senator Little  almost implored the Senate in the course of his address to believe that he did not propose to be provocative I do not, but at least I do wish to be factual.  Senator Little  bemoans the fact that the current state of affairs has been brought about by a series of incidents over the last 20 years. He attempts to discount the role of his Party in contributing to the current state of affairs. He can claim that his Party and its supporters - and he has done this on numerous occasions - have been responsible for the Commonwealth Government and for most of the Slate Governments. If 6 Premiers who are all members of one political party and meet with a Prime Minister and a Treasurer from the same party cannot iron out the difficulties that are posed and recognised by both sides of this chamber, I cannot imagine a committee as proposed by  Senator Little's  motion to be the answer to the problem. I propose to point out that there has been a continuing and almost irreversible decline in the relationship between the State governments and the Commonwealth Government and that the debt and interest burden is being placed on the States at a greater rate than it is on the Commonwealth. 
I may have to beg your indulgence,  Mr Deputy President,  and that of the Senate in the limited time at my disposal and ask  to be forgiven if I use words that might be described as unparliamentary in the course of making quotations from some Victorian Hansard reports which describe in detail and are a criticism of the Commonwealth's dealings with the State of Victoria. But I point out that the words that I will be called upon to use will not bc my words; they will be the words of the senior Premier in Australia, namely,  Sir Henry  Bolte. 
I refer to page 164 of the Victorian Hansard for 18th September 1968.  Sir Henry  Bolte, in addressing himself to the Legislative Assembly, made the following comment: 
The matter of further Commonwealth assistance towards this drought-caused shortage- 
Honourable senators will recall that Victoria was experiencing difficulty in that sense at that time -   , . was raised at the Premiers Conference in June. The Prime Minister then said that the Commonwealth is always ready to consider making assistance available if any Slate is faced with serious financial difficulties and serious problems arising from circumstances beyond its control.  . . However, I have to report to the Committee that, true to form, the Commonwealth Government has rejected our approach . . . So much for the words of the Prime Minister about the Commonwealth being always ready to come to the aid of a State faced with serious problems arising from circumstances beyond its control. 
Referring to a suggestion that State legislation known as the Stamps Act of 1967 should be repealed, he said: 
Specifically in relation to our Stamps Act of 1967, 1 make it clear that the Government has no present intention whatsoever of recommending to Parliament the repeal of any part of that legislation. Canberra may well wish to sweep under the carpet the whole mess they have created of CommonwealthState financial relations. They have done so for a long time. However, the people are awake to the confidence trick the Commonwealth has been perpetrating on the States and 1 am confident that this will force Canberra to change its tune. 
Remember that these words were said in 1968. 
The Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte. So, in the first instance he is saying quite clearly that he cannot rely on the word of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  Secondly he refers to the Prime Minister and the Treasurer who would have been with the Prime Minister on that occasion as confidence men. At page 166 he referred to the question of debt. He said: 
In addition, Victoria has to meet the annual interest payments on these moneys, and apart from a minor contribution by the Commonwealth under the Financial Agreement of 1927 Victoria has to find the revenue io pay the money back. All this has to be authorised by this Parliament, lt is plain dishonesty on the part of the Commonwealth to include State loan expenditure' in its own expenditure lt is State expenditure, and it adds to the debt of the States, not of the Commonwealth. 
Here he is charging the Commonwealth Government, the Prime Minister and the Treasurer with being dishonest. Had 1 used those terms, honourable senators opposite would have said that I was being political. In addition,  Sir Henry  Bolte says by implication that the books have been cooked by the Commonwealth Government. 1 propose to disclose this to the Senate by referring again to the Budget Speech made by the Premier of Victoria on 18th September 1968. He sa.d: 
In point of fact the debt owed by the Commonwealth has been dramatically reduced in recent years while the debt of the States continues to grow. The figures at 30th June last are revealing. They show the debt of the Commonwealth at $3,600m and the debt of the States at $3,316m. But the Commonwealth debt includes an amount of $ 1,505m which is merely money advanced by the Commonwealth to the States for expenditure under the housing agreement. The States have to repay the money to the Commonwealth and pay interest to the Commonwealth in the meantime. This is really State debt, not Commonwealth debt, and $ 1,505m has to be subtracted from the published figure of Commonwealth debt and added to the published figure for Slate debt. This makes the debt of the Commonwealth at 30th June 1968 only S2,095m and the true debt of the States $9,821m. 
I do not want to weary the Senate, but this is important: 
But the Commonwealth picture is even rosier than it appears because it holds vast quantities of Commonwealth securities as investments of its revenue surpluses. In fact, at 30th June 1968 it owned no less than $ 1,700m worth of these securities. 

 Sir Henry Bolte then set out the figures in the following table: 

<graphic href="943232197005070_85_2.jpg"></graphic>

He then went on to say: 
Not too bad for a Government which claims to have had deficits totalling more tha'n $3,6O0m in the last 10 years. Compare a Commonwealth debt of S395m with Victoria's debt of S2,450m, and the total debt of all States of S9,821m. 
I have not the time to complete the quotation. The position is that the States have been bled white by what the Premier of Victoria has described as the money lenders in the Commonwealth Government. The Premier has made it quite plain that the States cannot take the word of the Prime Minister. He has charged the Commonwealth with perpetrating confidence tricks. He has charged the Prime Minister and the Treasurer with dishonesty, by implication. He has also stated that they have cooked the books and have resorted to usurious practices or worked on the basis of the old fashioned money lenders. More recently he referred to the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  as one who was talking through his hat. 
In conclusion, let me repeat that we do not believe that the proposal to set up a committee will meet the requirements of the present situation. 
That has already been said. We believe that the responsibility for the economic management of the Commonwealth of Australia through a properly defined formula that will meet the requirements of the States rests fairly and squarely on the Commonwealth Government. Accordingly, we oppose the motion. 
ls the Minister representing the Minister, for Education and Science aware of an article appearing on page 1 of today's 'Australian' entitled 'Decision To Produce A-bomb Fuel "May Have Been Made" ', wherein Professor Encel, Professor of Sociology at the University of New South Wales, raised grave doubts about the Government's possible intention regarding, and use of, the proposed establishment of an atomic plant at Jervis Bay? Has the Government decided to buy for the Jervis Bay power station the type of atomic plant that produces the most nuclear explosive material? Is the Government's intention to buy a type of reactor best suited to producing explosive material dictated by this consideration? Has the Government already decided that nuclear power is economic for Australia when there is a large body of opinion to the contrary, especially among senior engineers in power authorities in the States? Has the Government made a deal with the Democratic Labor Party to equip Australia with nuclear weapons? Is the Government intending to negate and repudiate the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons which it signed so grudgingly? 
I have studied this Bill quite closely. I do not discount the criticisms that have been raised by my colleagues, but I wish to direct the attention of the Committee to another matter that I consider to be of major importance. As I understand the Bill - I trust that the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson),  who represents the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  will be able to assist me here - its intention is to provide for the appropriation of a sum of money from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purposes of the various responsibilities of government, and the sum of money involved may be described as the shortfall between the previous appropriations and the demands of the many areas of responsibility of government over a given period. 
I propose to quote clause 3 of the Bill so that I will be able to explain my point thoroughly. It says: 
The Treasurer may issue out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund and apply for the services specified in the Schedule to this Act in respect of the year ending on the thirtieth day of June, One thousand nine hundred and seventy, the sum of Ninety million and fifty three thousand dollars. 
That is fair enough. That appears to me to mean that, with the passage of this Bill, as from that date the Treasurer will be entitled to make use of the sum of approximately S90m to meet the financial commitments of the Commonwealth Government in respect of its various responsibilities. 
To 30th June this year. Clause 4 states: 
The sum authorised by this Act to be issued out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund is appropriated, and shall be deemed to have been appropriated as from the first day of July, One Thousand nine hundred and sixty-nine, for the services expressed' in the Schedule to this Act in respect of the financial year that commenced on that dale. 
I presume again - and I am looking to the Minister for Supply to assist me on this - that this means that any shortfall in the financial commitment of the Commonwealth Government is intended to be met by Appropriation Act (No. 3). The Schedule referred to in Clause 4, I again presume, relates to the Schedule on the second page of the Bill which sets out the page reference of the Bill, the departments and services, and the various amounts allocated to those departments and services. My interest is directed specifically to the reference to the Department of Housing on page 21 of the Bill. This is the only reference that I have been able to locate which relates to the all important question of housing. There provision is made for an amount of $249,800. My concern is that recently in this place and in another place, during the course of debate of matters of public importance, specifically those matters dealing with war service loan finance- 
 I appreciate that, but the point I am making - and again I look to the Leader of the Government in the Senate to assist me in this - is that I understand this Bill will become an Act to provide for a shortfall in moneys previously appropriated to meet the financial commitments of the Commonwealth Government. Opposition senators who have raised questions, specifically relating to the War Service Homes Division, have been told repeatedly that there is a distinction between the construction of new homes and the purchase of existing dwellings. It has been pointed out that there has been a shortfall - and f am using these terms in a soft sense now - in the loan finance available to approved applicants for war service homes, lt has been stated that money would be made available as from at least 1st July this year. If that is the case, I pose the question: Where within this Bill, which is designed to become an Act. is the provision of moneys which will honour the assurance that* has been given to honourable senators on this side of the chamber, by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dams Annabelle Rankin),  on behalf of the Cabinet and the Government, that approved applicants for war service homes loan finance will in fact be guaranteed loans at least from 1st July 1970? Nowhere in the Bill can I find such a reference. I would appreciate it if I could receive that information. 

 Senator ANDERSON (New South Wales a quick answer and then I will move to report progress because we have to move out of Committee before the Senate adjourns. The simple answer to the honourable senators question is that the moneys provided in this Bill are the appropriations to 30th June. We also have 2 Supply Bills. In the Supply Bills the honourable senator will find that an arbitrary figure is taken in advance of the Budget which provides for five-twelfths of supply for the next financial year. So I suggest that the honourable senator may find the answer he is seeking in the Supply Bills. Unless any other honourable senator wants to speak to this Bill during the Committee stage, we will report progress and the Bill cun pass through its remaining stages. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Will wheat farmers who had a short-fall in their quota for the recent harvest be able to add this to their reduced quota for the coming season. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Prime Minister have tabled in the Senate any documents purporting to represent a request from the South Vietnamese Government, in 1965, for military assistance from  the  Australian Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
To what countries, and in what volume, has flour been exported during the current season (beginning 1st December 1969). 
Do these exports constitute an increase on the corresponding period last year. 
What prices were obtained for the sales. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Do the recent sales of wheat to Chile (100,000 tons), Peru (80.000 tons), Pakistan (75,000 tons), India (50,000 tons), Sudan (29,000 tons), Lebanon (23,000 tons), New Zealand (10,000 tons) and Iraq (55,000 tons) mean that the Australian Wheat Board has secured new markets in these countries or are these traditional markets. 
If the Australian Wheat Board is opening up new markets and increasing sales, can growers expect quotas to be increased. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
ls wheat, now in temporary Hut type storages in central and northern Victoria being heavily infested with mice; if so, will the Minister ascertain whether this wheat can be turned and treated against weevil .infestation, as is done at intervals in permanent storages. 
What action will be taken by the Government to prevent further great losses to the farmers with wheat iti such unsatisfactory storages. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Why is there a delay in answering question No. 290, in my name, which refers to a decision by the Government made five years ago. 
Is the Minister for 
Civil Aviation aware that the Melbourne City Council decided recently to install parking meters providing for 1 hour parking, in lieu of all day parking, in an area adjacent to premises occupied by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia, thus depriving employees of both organisations of parking facilities which are necessary by reason of the unusual hours they are obliged to work? Will he have this matter investigated with a view to providing parking accommodation for these employees whose irregular hours of work often preclude them from using public transport? 
1 rise to support the amendment proposed by the Opposition. I think it should be stated clearly- 
Yes, as redrafted. The proposition is a simple one. The amendment states that the names and qualifications of the members of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee should be made public. I can understand the anxiety displayed by the Minister who has the carriage of the Bill in this chamber. She has expressed opposition to the proposed amendment.I do not say this facetiously, but it could be said that during the course of the Committee debate on this important Bill - one of the most important Bills to come before the Senate - the Bill has undergone major surgery already. I do not believe that that is justification for adopting an attitude of opposition to a simple proposition. 
J dwell for a moment on the important task of the Advisory Committee. It could be saidwithout argument that the decision made by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee as to whether and what kind of drugs may  or  may not be used and, to some degree, as to the extent to which they may be used, affects  the  medical profession throughout the Commonwealth. It could be truly said that the Committee has a very important task. It has a grave responsibility  to  the community as a whole. I do not think anybody would challenge me when I say that the recommendations of the Committee no doubt would be the exact basis  ofthe  decisions that the Minister for Health would make subsequently. To argue this would be purelyacademic, because the Minister realises - and in my view he should  - that  he has to rely on the advice  of  people who have  the  qualifications and capabilities to advise him on importantmatters. Therefore we see no justification for this Committee, which is of such great importance and which has -such great responsibilities, being cloaked in secrecy. 
In the limited time I have been a member of the Senate I have heard  Senator Turnbull  from time to time criticise some of the decisions made by this Committee. I am not in a position to say whether  Senator Turnbull  was right or not. But that is not the point at issue. The point at issue is whether the people with the qualifications which enable them to be members of this Committee should be known to the public at large. I believe that if they were that fact would instil a great deal more confidence inthe Committee than evidently is the case at present. I suggest, with great respect to the Minister, that to imply that men of such calibre and of such high professional standing need protection by way of a form of secrecy is to impugn them. 1 am sure she would not intend this. But it could be implied that secrecywould impugn their professional integrity in that it would imply that they might be influenced by the pressures that have been referred to. My view is that that would not be the case at all. I do not believe that men of the professional integrity and with the qualifications required to serve on this Committee would do other than welcome the opportunity and see it as an honour to be selected for service on such an important committee. Therefore I say, as we on this side have said, that it is a simple proposition and one which we believe merits support and is justified. I support the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be inserted(Senator McClelland's amendment) be inserted. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Development aware of the report in the 'Australian' of today's date entitled 'US to Bury A Waste in Salt Mine'? The article mentions that the American Atomic Energy Commission has decided to bury most radioactive atomic waste in a national depository which will cost about $45m and take some5 years to build. Has the Government given any consideration to the provision of satisfactory disposal arrangements for radioactive atomic waste from the power plant to be built at Jervis Bay? If so, will the Minister provide the Senate with detailed plans of its intention? 
I wish to refer briefly to clause 9 which has been also referred to by  Senator Georges.  The second reading speech of the Minister indicates that the intention of the 
Government is to divorce the Corporation from any direction of or accountability - I think 'accountability' is the pertinent term to use - to the Commonwealth Parliament and therefore to the people of the Commonwealth. I rise because there are certain conditions associated with the- 
If that is the case, I will wait until the Committee is considering clause 37 of the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Under what circumstances and conditions does the Commonwealth Savings Bank make loans in excess of $8,000 available for home building and purchase? How many such loans have been made and over what period? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Air. Notwithstanding the possibility of cancellation, is the Government satisfied that a firm final cost has now been established for the purchase of 24 F1I1C aircraft, spares, associated equipment and services? If so, what is the amount? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What sales of wheat have been made locally by the Australian Wheat Hoard for the current season (beginning 1st December 1969) for (a) flour milling and (b) stock feed. 
Are these reductions in sales compared with the corresponding period last year. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Is the Government in receipt of any reports and/ or feasibility tests in respect of the economic potential of the proposed Jervis Bay power plant? If se, has this information been compared with the known cost of production of electrical energy by existing conventional means? What does this comparison disclose? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. Is the Minister aware of the Victorian Housing Industry Association survey this week which showed that Victorian housing commencements had fallen by 35% since the beginning of May? As a consequence  of this drastic decline in home building the Victorian Sawmillers Association has announced that many saw mills may soon have to close down or lay off many employees. Will the Minister give urgent consideration to initiating remedial measures designed to arrest this disastrous trend in the home building industry? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Is there grave disquiet among senior officers of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission because of the implied curtailment of their entitlement to take part in public discussion on the critical question of the implications of nuclear power generation for Australia. 
Has the  Chairman  of the Australian Atomic  Energy Commission, either unilaterally, or by direction ofthe Government, imposed any restriction, prohibition or limitation on such public discussion. 
Will the right to full frank public discussion be made available, without prejudice, to these officers, who possess the scientific competence to take part in such discussions and who have a particular degree of social responsibility to the community. 
-I rephrase an earlier questionI asked of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that the facilities of the Postmaster-General's Department are to be used to telecast an address to the nation by the Prime Minister? If so, will the Minister make the same facilities available to the Leader of the Opposition on his return from overseas and at such other times as the Prime Minister avails himself of such opportunities to speak to the nation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Is it a fact that the facilities of the Postmaster-General's Department are being used to provide for the televising of an address to the nation by the Prime Minister? If this is so, will the Minister give consideration to making like facilities available to the Leader of the Opposition? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. In answer to a question asked by  Senator Mulvihill  on the meeting of wildlife authorities in Darwin beginning on 25th May, the Minister replied as follows: 
The meeting of officials was held as indicated in the previous answer and a number of resolutions were passed. However, as I am sure the honourable senator would appreciate on reflection, those resolutions are confidential until they have been considered by the responsible Ministers of State. So far no date has been set for the ministerial meeting. 
I do not question the answer. However, last night I received a report from a Victorian constitutent, who is a dedicated crusader for the preservation of our wildlife, alleging he had been informed that one resolution adopted by the Darwin meeting literally endorsed the current indiscriminate slaughter of kangaroos. Will the Minister investigate this matter and inform the Senate whether there is any substance in this allegation? 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for immigration, and I trust that it will be acknowledged as a lay question. If, on investigation into the Taylor case, it is found that  Mrs Taylor  has been separated from her husband for a period and that legal proceedings have been instituted to establish custody of the children, will the Minister stand the case over until such time as both matters have been clarified? 
I support the amendment proposed by  Senator Bishop.  I welcome the opportunity to speak, having been denied the opportunity to speak on this Bill and on one other Bill earlier this evening. It is true,as  Senator Bishop  has said, that the trade union movement and the Labor movement collectively are opposed to what are described as the penal provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. We are opposed to them for a number of reasons. It gives me a great deal of pleasure to have the opportunity in this place to attempt to effect changes in legislation with which I have been associated by way of campaigns outside this place. As a member of the trade union movement I have endeavoured to impress upon the Government that it should repeal industrial laws which are designed to dispossess persons employed in industry of the right to the same freedom as that enjoyed by those engaged in commerce and industry. By that I refer to the right to place a price on the commodity which they have to sell without any restrictions or limitations being placed upon them. 
Quite seriously, section 109 of the Act points up. in my view, what has happened in the ensuing months since the Government recognised the need to do something about the penal provisions after a tremendous campaign was mounted against the imposition of the penal provisions on the trade union movement in Australia. In my view, all that has happened is that a moratorium has been introduced for the time being. With great respect to those honourable senators who have spoken both for and against this Bill this evening, in my view all that has happened is that there has been a re-arrangement of the mechanism of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The last paragraph of the second reading speech of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  portrays the precise intention of the Government. The Minister said: 
As I have already mentioned, the Bill will retain industrial sanctions but not without prior use being made of negotiation, conciliation and, where necessary, arbitration, to resolve industrial issues between management and labour. The Bill represents a genuine effort to bring the sanctions process more into line with current needs. The intervention of the Industrial Court is deferred until arbitral and conciliation processes have been employed. 
What has been described by the Minister in his second reading speech is something which in fact takes place at present. I was secretary of a trade union for a number of years. I know that on occasions the union attempted to obtain some measure of negotiation and conciliation. In my humble opinion nothing new has been introduced. It may be that the mechanics of the system will operate in a slightly different manner. The fact remains, however, that the Government's insistence on imposing sanctions and penal provisions on trade unions will not resolve the crisis which developed last year. 
I think it would be as well for me to point out to the Government at this late stage that not only has the Australian Council of Trade Unions rejected the imposition of the penal provisions but also the white collar organisations, namely the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and the High Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, have recently joined forces with the ACTU. The High Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, ACSPA and the ACTU collectively represent an overwhelming majority of the persons employed in all forms of industry throughout Australia. Their opposition has been augmented by the opposition that the political wing of the Labor movement, namely the Labor Party, has taken throughout the years. In my view there will be formidable opposition to any insistence in the future on the application of these provisions of the Act. This reminds me, and I make no apology for saying it, that we may have reached the same stage as was reached in Victoria in 1948 when the government of the day in that State introduced what has become known as the Essential Services Act. Neither that government nor any government since 1948 has been prepared to even consider the implementation of the terms of that Act. There has been one reason for this. The Government of the day and the governments since then have known that any attempt to impose any of the provisions of that Act on the working people in Victoria would be met by a revolt of the working class. At the same time 1 am convinced that as a consequence of what happened last year we have witnessed what might he described as the last of the penal clauses. lt may be argued that the penal clauses are still written into this legislation, but I sincerely trust that the determination which was displayed by the trade union movement last year will be re-enacted if and when a court attempts to apply these provisions. Having regard to the traditional opposition which the trade union movement has registered to all forms of restrictions on its rights 1 think it Ls necessary for me to make understood why the Government supports such provisions, lt appears to me that it is absolutely essential for the Government to retain these provisions in order to preserve the so called free enterprise system and enable it to operate successfully. The Government accepts the idea of a free market in terms of commerce and industry, but when it comes to the most precious commodity of all - the sale of labour power - the Government entangles the Labor movement in a massive Act of Parliament. At one and the same time the Government has by way of this Act of Parliament imposed restrictions and limitations in a manner which might be described at a given time in the course of industry and the like as industrial conscription. 
No red blooded person can concede that in any circumstances we enjoy genuine democracy in this country until such time as those provisions are repealed. 1 say that without hesitation and make no apology for it. If the Government wants to apply price fixation in terms of the cost of labour, it should likewise apply it to the cost of the goods and services that the people have to buy in order to live. In other words, if the Government expects the trade union movement to accept its proposals, likewise the trade union movement expects the Government to apply some system of rationalisation to costs and prices which at least will create an integrated economy. Until that happens I am sure that members of the trade union movement will not accept in any circumstances such restrictions, limitations and prohibitions on their rights as free men. 
1 ask the Minister for Air whether the Government is aware that Australia's 24 FI 1 1 C aircraft have been parked in the open on the tarmac at the General Dynamics Corporation's space centre, Fort Worth, Texas, since September last year. Has the Government been informed that General Dynamics officials now believe it is essential to get the jets into hangars in order to combat deterioration, signs of which, they say, are apparent in some aircraft due to exposure to the weather for too long? Has this type of  storage been costing the Australian taxpayers some $1,500 a day for approximately 12 months? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Are many small farmers in a desperate financial position and is there a real possibility that many more relatively solvent farmers may reach the same state; if so, will the Government consider immediately enacting legislation to reintroduce a Mortgage Bank', in order to help such farmers survive the current crises in the primary industries. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
In view of the report in the 'Australian' of 4th June, entitled 'U.S. to bury A-Waste in salt mine', which states that the American atomic Energy Commission has decided to bury its most radio-active atomic waste in a depository that will cost some $US45m and take as long as 5 years to build, has any consideration been given to the provision of satisfactory disposal arrangements at the power plant to be built at Jervis Bay; if so, will the Minister provide the Senate with detailed plans and a description of the disposal arrangements. 
asked the Minister  representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Under what circumstances and conditions does the Commonwealth Savings Bank make loans available, in excess of $8,000, for home building and purchase. 
How many such loans have been made and over what period. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth Banking Corporation has furnished the following information: 
As indicated in the answer given to Question No. 375 on 2nd June 1970 (see Hansard page 1826), in a limited number of suitable cases the Commonwealth Savings Bank is approving mortgage loans in excess of $8,000 for home building and purchase. Normally loans are made up to 75% of the Bank's valuation of the property with interest rates ranging between 7.5% and 8% per annum. The suitability of each application is considered on its merits. 
The mortgage loans were introduced in April 1970 to match facilities provided by other savings banks. For competitive reasons, the Commonwealth Savings Bank does not propose to publish information as to the number of such loans. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
In view of statements by the  Chairman  and other members of the Australian Wheat Board that prices are being maintained'at or near the minimum price', what are the prices obtained for wheal being exported at present, and are these prices below the minimum price set under the International Grains Arrangement which became operative in July 1968, raising the then minimum by 19 cents per bushel; if  so,  to what extent. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice 
How many loans have been approved to assist in financing the purchase of the 24 F111C aircraft, their spares and associated equipment: what was the source of each loan and in which year was it approved. 
What is the aggregate amount of the loans. 
What is the interest rate on each loan; what amount has been drawn upon from each loan; and what are the terms and conditions of each loan. 
What will be the aggregate of all loans plus interest when repayments have been finalised. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Two loans of $US80m and $US75m have been approved to assist in financing the purchase of 24 F111C aircraft, their spares and associated equipment and services. The source of each loan is the Export-Import Bank of the United States and the loans were arranged in 1966 and 1968. 
The aggregate amount of the loans is $US155m. 
The interest rate on the loan of $US80m is 4%, and that on the loan of $US75m is 6%. Drawings of SUS77.2m have been made on the $US80m loan but there have been no drawings on the $US75m loan. Apart from the interest rate, the main terms of the $US80m loan are that drawings are repayable in 10 semi-annual instalments, commencing at the end of each financial year in which the drawings are made. Drawings on the $US75m loan are repayable in 14 semi-annual instalments commencing 6 months after the end of the financial year in which drawings on the loan are made. This loan carries a commitment fee of one-half per cent per annum on the undrawn balance. 
It is not possible to calculate precisely the amount of principal repayment plus interest, since it is not known whether or when further drawings will be made. However, on the assumption that the full amounts of both loans are fully drawn repayments plus interest would total approximately $US181m. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, but he may feel that it should be directed to another Minister or other Ministers. I ask: Will the Government give urgent consideration to the alleviation of the harsh cost burden imposed on diabetics who require special dietary preparations, medicines and surgical equipment to enable them to lead useful and satisfying lives? As these necessities for a diabetic appear to attract prices in excess of comparable normal foods, particular so far as dietary preparations are concerned, would the Government consider measures designed to effect a price reduction for these special consumers? 
asked the Minister rep  resenting the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the facilities of the PostmasterGeneral's Department are being used to telecast an address to the nation by the Prime Minister; if so, will the Postmaster-General make the same facilities available to the Leader of the Opposition  on his return from his present overseas visit, and at such other times as the Prime Minister avails himself of opportunities to report to the nation. 
The facilities of the Post Office were made available to telecast and broadcast an address to the nation by the Prime Minister on18th June, 1970. This is in accordance with Post Office policy whereby relay facilities are made available without charge for the coverage of events which are classified as being of national importance and includes such events as visits to Australia by Royalty and other dignitaries from overseas countries, speeches and press conferences by the Prime Minister and funerals of world figures. 
Concerning the suggestion that the same facilities be made available to the Leader of the Opposition, the position is that a programme of this kind, featuring the Prime Minister, certainly has a special significance for the public. He speaks for the Federal Government directly to the Press and indirectly to the people of Australia about the Federal administration for which he and his Ministers are responsible. The same considerations do not apply in respect of any other Member of Parliament. It is therefore not practicable to accede to your request. 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate acknowledge that any political decision by the Government which reduces the purchasing power of wages and salaries received by employees and consequently reduces their standards of living is a matter of concern to the trade union movement and is a matter upon which the unions are entitled to take action to protect their interests? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that retailers are exploiting the purchasers of consumer goods in many instances by applying to goods a mark-up to the extent of 50% over and above the manufacturer's cost plus sales tax? Does the Government condone this practice which must inflate the prices of consumer goods and enable a profit to be made on sales tax? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not certain that I understand the purport of the question in relation to the mark-up by retailers and, for that reason, I suggest that the question should go on the notice paper so that I may refer it to the Treasurer. I gather from what the honourable senator said an implication that because of a variation in sales tax an added mark-up has been imposed. If that is the implication I would remind him that it is axiomatic that everybody in the retail trade applies a mark-up to goods and the percentage mark-up varies according to the industry. Some people may think that some industries have a higher mark-up than is necessary, but others may think, particularly in respect of some grocery lines, that the mark-up is very low. The question posed by the honourable senator covers a fairly broad canvas and for that reason I ask him to put it on notice so that I may send it to the Treasurer and obtain for him a comprehensive answer. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Housing. I understand that the Commonwealth Government has approved several building schemes submitted by the States for the construction of dwellings for single age pensioners. I ask: How many schemes have been submitted by each State and approved? How many single age pensioners will be accommodated in each State? When will construction commence on these dwellings? When are these dwellings expected to be occupied? What rentals will be charged? Is the Government aware of the number of qualified single age pensioners requiring such housing? If not, will it take steps to ascertain this information? 
In New South Wales 22 schemes have been approved. These will provide 261 units. In Victoria approval has been given for 9 schemes which will provide 316 units. Queensland has submitted to me the proposed areas in which it plans to have these units built but it has not as yet submitted the details for approval. In South Australia 8 schemes comprising 100 single units have been approved. In Western Australia approval has been given to 9 schemes to provide 104 single units. In Tasmania approval has been given to 1 scheme which will provide 20 single units. I had the pleasure of opening that scheme and seeing some of the people who are going to enjoy the units. I think the honourable senator asked what rental was going to be paid by these eligible single pensioners. It will be between S2 and S3. 20. Last night  Senator Hendrickson  asked me where these places were in Victoria. As  Senator Brown  is  a  Victorian I shall give the names in Victoria  and ask leave to include the others in Hansard. The places where approval has been given in Victoria are Brunswick, Preston, Ballarat, Castlemaine, Mornington, Geelong, Numurkah, Warracknabeal and Warrnambool. These will total 316 units. This scheme is only in its first year and we look forward to an increasing number of units as the amounts of money are paid. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard the lists of building units for the States of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, and Tasmania. 

<graphic href="045232197009020_6_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="045232197009020_6_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="045232197009020_6_2.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
Have several schemes for the construction of dwellings for single aged pensioners been submitted by the States and approved; if so, 
how many such schemes have been submitted by each State and approved; 
how many single aged pensioners will be thus accommodated; 
when will construction commence on the dwellings approved; 
when is it anticipated that the dwellings wilt be able to be occupied: 
what rentals will be charged for these dwellings; and 
bow many qualified single aged pensioners require such housing. 
Five States have submitted schemes for approval in accordance with the provisions of the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Act 1969. Details are given below. Proposals are currently being developed in Queensland. 

<graphic href="045232197009171_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

The State housing authorities propose to charge the following rents: 
New South Wales- $2.50. 
Victoria- $2.10. 
South Australia- $2.80 to $3.20. 
Western Australia- $3.00. 
Tasmania  -  $2.00. 
Statistics are not available as to the precise number of single aged pensioners who would be eligible within the terms of the Act and who are in need of this type of accommodation. Information obtained from the State housing authorities when the scheme was being formulated indicated a substantial additional requirement by pensioners for accommodation of this type over the next few years. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Externa) Affairs aware of Malaysia's new Prime Minister's call for the neutralisation of South East Asia with guarantees from the Soviet Union, the United States and China? He is further reported to have said that Malaysia will pursue an independent, non-aligned foreign policy based on co-operation, friendship and non-interference in the affairs of other nations. Will the Commonwealth Government use its best endeavours to assist Malaysia in the achievement of these commendable and desirable objectives? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONLike  Senator Brown  and other honourable senators, I have read the report, but I am  sure  the Senate would agree that what was said is a matter of great national importance and it would not be appropriate for me to make a comment about it off the cuff. I expect that the Minister for External Affairs and the Government will look at the statement in due course. But until such time as this is done it would be very inappropriate for me to comment. 
I agree wholeheartedly with the comments made by  Senator McManus  about the deplorable state of affairs insofar as accommodation for aged people in Victoria is concerned, particularly aged people in institutions. I should like to bring to the Minister's attention my experience when I visited a mental instituton at Beechworth which provides accommodation in the form of a benevolent home within the precincts of the institution. 
Yes, people who are incapable of catering for their own needs. They are beyond that point. It would appear from the discussion I had with the new superintendent at Beechworth mental institution that the geriatric institutions which normally would cater for these people had reached saturation point. It was most depressing, to say the least, to see aged people who are not mentally ill but are simply aged and beyond the point of being able to care for themselves, being catered for in an institution which has been acknowledged for many years - I think it goes back to 1860 - as a mental institution. During the course of my inspection the superintendent pointed out the different conditions which exist when Commonwealth aid is provided. The people concerned had a sense of independence, notwithstanding the depressing environment - I must use that term - and a sense of dignity in their twilight years. 1 ask the Minister to direct her attention to this matter because, as  Senator McManus  has said, a lot of assistance is needed. I am completely convinced that the States are not in a position financially to provide the wherewithal to meet the needs of these almost forgotten people in the State of Victoria. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (9.53) - I have received some information concerning the point made by  Senator Brown.  These geriatric wards have been excluded from the definition of mental hospital. The inmates receive pensions. I understand that previously pensions were not paid to them. The assistance now provided is a great help. The States are expanding this kind of geriatric accommodation and the patients in the new wards also will receive the pension. I think I should stress again that apart from accommodating people and assisting those in nursing homes, the intensive nursing home benefits provided by this Government have enabled many pensioners to obtain the kind of accommodation they need. I should add another point. When I spoke earlier in reply to  Senator McManus  I mentioned, because he was interested particularly in Victoria, the amount which had been made available to that State under the Aged Persons Homes Act. It is important to note that Commonwealth expenditure of Si 05.998,324 has been approved in assisting people in this way throughout the Commonwealth. The amount that the Commonwealth has made available, together with that which the organisations have provided, have made a great contribution to this work. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  I acknowledge the great responsibility that rests on you for the maintenance of the decorum and the dignity of this chamber. I invite you to study Senate standing order 418. It reads: 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words- 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It is reported in today's edition of the Australian 'Financial Review' that the net profit of the Rural Bank of New South Wales rose by 22 per cent in the year ended 30th June last, that total assets rose by $2 1.7m to $426.2m, and that loans and advances increased by $29. 8m to $27 1.5m during the same period. Are these reported transactions and results of the Rural Bank of New South Wales characteristic of those of banks in other States operating in the same field of banking? In view of the acknowledged depressed economic state of rural industries throughout Australia, how is it that financial institutions which service these industries accumulate such astronomical profits and assets? 
This is primarily a State matter but I think it is proper to point out to the honourable senator that the name Rural Bank of New South Wales is perhaps not indicative of its banking role. One can go into the city of Sydney, to the inner and outer suburbs and to other cities in New South Wales and find that the Rural Bank is open for business. The short answer to the question is that this is a classic example of how a bank can succeed when there is a proper and suitable Liberal Government in office in that State. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Air. As a matter of equity in terms of (he representation of the Australian people in this House, will the Minister review the rules that he stated today in regard to the use of VIP aircraft with the object of making VIP aircraft available to the leaders of the official Opposition in the Senate, seeing that they represent the majority Party here? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry upon notice: 
Is a permit required to export stock feed preparations which contain a percentage of wheat. 
Are there any External Territories under Australian control to which wheat may be exported without a permit, if so, is there any possibility of transhipment of this wheat to other countries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Government received any report and/or results of feasibility tests with respect to the economic potential of the proposed Jervis Bay nuclear power plant; if so, has this information been compared with the known cost of production of electrical energy produced by conventional means, and what does a comparison disclose. 
Is the Minister for Air aware of the reported decision of the United States House of Representatives yesterday approving the payment of $283m for 40 Fill fighters which the Defence Department said had been found 'structurally sound'? Can the Minister inform the Senate why there is the great discrepancy between the cost of the American purchase, namely, 283m for 40 FI 1 1 fighters, as against the advice from the Minister for Defence that the last known cost, though not a firm final figure, for Australia's 24 Fill fighters was $262m? If he is not in the position to give a ready answer will he refer the matter to the Minister for Defence for his attention and early advice? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry upon notice: 
What quantities of cotton are imported from: (a) the United Arab Republic; (b) The United States of America; and (c) other sources. 
What is the tariff paid on these imports. 
What quantities of synthetic apparel fibres are imported from the United States of America. 
Total imports into Australia of raw cotton, cotton linters, and cotton waste in the years 1967-68 to 1969-70, are given in Table No. 1, with those from the United States shown separately. No imports were made from the UAR in this three-year period. 
In recent years, Uganda has been the largest single supplier of Australia's raw cotton imports (namely 9,050,000 lb, 10,316,000 lb and 8,039,000 lb respectively in the years 1967-68, 1968-69 and 1969-70). 
Hong Kong, Japan, Pakistan and India are the principal sources of cotton waste imports. 
The rates of customs tariff applicable to cotton imports are given in Table No. 2. 
Australian imports of man-made textile fibres in 1967-68 to 1969-70 (under the head of Import Statistical Item 266) are given in Table No. 3, with the imports from the USA again shown separately. Man-made fibres include both the non-cellulosic (or synthetic) fibres, i.e. acrylics, polyamides, etc., and the cellulosic (or regenerated) fibres, i.e. acetates, viscoses, etc. It is not possible to give precise details of the quantities of these imported textile fibres which are used for apparel purposes, since undefined quantities are applied to other end-uses. It is to be noted also that some imported man-made fibre raw textile yarns (under the head of Import Statistical Items 65 1.6 and 651.7) are in effect used as fibres in initial stages of processing. 

<graphic href="046232197010134_12_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="046232197010134_12_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="046232197010134_13_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="046232197010134_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In answer to a question yesterday relative to the withdrawal of licences for meat export to the United States of America, the Minister stated that a handbook is made available to each abattoir and that it contains information from the Department of Primary Industry as to the standards required to be met. Is the information contained in the handbook compiled on the basis of regular consultation and in accordance with the requirements of the United States authority? If the answer to the question is in the affirmative, what action has the Minister taken to cause the several abattoirs to meet the known standards? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will the Minister give urgent consideration to alleviating the harsh cost burden imposed on diabetics because they require special dietary preparations, medicines and surgical equipment to enable them to lead useful and satisfying lives. 
As dietary necessities of diabetic patients appear to attract prices in excess of normal food costs, will the. Minister consider introducing measures to effect price reductions for diabetics. 
The Commonwealth already provides a wide range of medicines as pharmaceutical benefits for the treatment of diabetes. The question of providing surgical equipment and special foods for diabetics as benefits under the National Health Act has been carefully considered hut it is not proposed, at this stage, to amend the Act in this direction. 
Price control in the States is a function of the State authorities and measures to effect price reductions for diabetics would be a matter for those authorities. 
Yesterday the Minister for Air stated in answering a question relating to the cost of the FI 1 1 aircraft to the United Slates Government and the cost to the Australian Government: T think the honourable senator knows that there is a ceiling price of $US5.95m for our aircraft.' Is the Minister relying on the ministerial statement entitled 'Royal Australian Air Force Strike Bomber Capability' delivered by him on 12th May 1970 for the answer he gave? If so. how does he arrive at the figure of $US5.95m for each aircraft exclusive of spares, other associated equipment and services? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence aware of the recent newspaper reports indicating that the British Conservative Government's first defence White Paper proposing a new 5 power defence arrangement for South East Asia is designed to replace the existing Anglo-Malaysia defence agreement? The report States - 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is it a fact that some 12 months ago the dairying industry asked the Minister for Trade and 
Industry to curtail the importation of cheese? ls it also a fact that this was consequent upon the disclosure in the 1969 report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board that some 6,000 tons or 1 3 per cent of the cheese consumed in Australia annually was imported? Did the Minister give an undertaking that he would set up a committee to investigate this matter? Was a committee set up for this purpose? If so, who were the persons appointed to it and what organisations did they represent? Has the committee met? Has it finalised its investigations and presented any findings or recommendations? If so, will the Minister table its report in this chamber at the earliest opportunity? 
The honourable senator asks a question about the importation of cheese. It is true, as 1 recall it, that we did have discussions in this chamber about 12 months ago in relation to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement and cheese was one of the products involved. I remember that some machinery was set up between Australia and New Zealand in regard to this matter. However, the honourable senator's question covers a far wider canvas. He has spoken in terms of the importation of cheese from any country. The honourable senator has also asked a series of questions in relation to the functions of a committee. I would need to refer this matter to the Department of Trade and Industry in order to gel an answer. I will try to get one as quickly as possible. 
 I would like to draw the attention of the Minister to Division 310, subdivision 2, item 08, Migrant transitory accommodation - Repairs, maintenance and other running costs. I note that the appropriation for this item for 1969-70 was $35,000, and I presume that the actual expenditure was $27,672, which means that the appropriation exceeded the actual expenditure by approximately $7,500. For 1970-71 the appropriation is for $56,000, which is some $21,000 more than the appropriation last year, which was $7,500 more than the amount expended, and which is in fact twice the amount of $27,672 expended in 1969-70. I ask 2 questions: Firstly, would the Minister be good enough to give me a brief description of what is entailed in terms of repairs, maintenance and other running costs associated with migrant transitory accommodation? Secondly, why should there be such a sharp increase in the appropriation, having regard to the comments I have made in respect of the appropriation for 1969-70 and the actual expenditure for 1969-70? 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (5.53) - This year we are acquiring more flats. We have recently opened a block in Brisbane and we will be opening a block in Adelaide by the end of this year. In the early days it was rather hard to estimate these amounts and there was a short fall in expenditure. Let mc give the honourable senator some of the items related to this amount of $56,000 that has been appropriated this year for repairs, maintenance and other running costs in respect of migrant transitory accommodation. Details of the estimated expenditures are as follows: Repairs to buildings, $5,800; repairs to furniture and fittings, $2,000; communal services, cleaning, lighting, etc., $7,500; inter-tenancy expenses, $1,800; maintenance of grounds, $5,000; rates and charges, $31,700; and miscellaneous, $2,200. 1 repeat that the increased expenditure expected in this year is due to the increased number of flats which are now coming into use. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Having in mind past experience, is the Government in a position to protect the primary producer against the arbitrary decision by the internationally owned shipping monopolies known as the conference lines to increase freight rates? 
The basis of my question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation is a document entitled 'No. 1 War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal, Annual Report for the year 1969-70', which refers to the accommodation of all Melbourne based war pension tribunals on the 7th floor of TAA Centre, 50 Franklin Street, Melbourne. The quotation is essential for my question to be intelligible and it can be authenticated. The report states: 
This Tribunal moved into its new premises in September 1969. Generally speaking, the standard of accommodation, and the principle of concentration of the Tribunals, has proved quite satisfactory. There are, however,  two  items which this Tribunal views with regret. 
The first is the type of accommodation made available to the advocates employed by the Returned Services League, and their secretary. Melbourne is distinct from other capitals in that these advocates, rather than working from offices at League Headquarters, and visiting the Tribunal rooms as required, are permanently quartered within Tribunal premises. The standard of assistance given to appellants, naturally, is higher. However, by reason of the limited space available at TAA Centre, rooms with an outer view, and with some space, could not be provided. The advocates, and their secretary, have to use, as permanent offices, small internal interviewing cubicles suitable only for casual, rather than for permanent, occupation. 
The second item is the absence of parking space for the motor vehicles of the  Chairman  and members, which was made available to them at and/or near the previous premises, 'Rostella' 
The question I ask is: Has the Minister taken any steps to provide suitable accommodation and facilities in place of those which are said in the report to be deficient? If not, when is the Minister likely to do so and thus enable a standard of service of the highest order to be made available to ex-servicemen and women to which they are justly entitled? 
I address a question to  Senator Sim.  It is in respect of notice of motion- 
The question directed to  Senator Sim,  as I said earlier, is in respect of notice of motion No. 4 on today's notice paper. I ask  Senator Sim:  Will he describe to the Senate the area of inquiry envisaged in his notice of motion given on 19th August 1971 entitled Japan'? 
The  president-  My ruling is that I will permit  Senator Sim  to answer the question if he so desires, but I do not wish  Senator Sim  in answering that question to involve himself in as much speculation as normally would be occurring as to what is going to happen to the Japanese yen. Will you bear that in mind? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, arises out of a statement by the Minister on assistance to the wool industry. Will the brokers and private wool merchants receive a commission for the handling and distribution of deficiency payments to their clients? If so, is that commission to be uniform, how will it be calculated and by what authority? 
 Has the Minister representing the Minister for Housing seen the report in the 'Sunday Australian' of 22nd August in which the Victorian Minister, for Housing,  Mr Meagher,  accused the Federal Government of deceit in its Budget provision for housing assistance to the States? Is the Minister aware that Housing Ministers from other States who support  Mr Meagher  include  Mr Stephens  of New South Wales,  Mr Taylor  of Western Australia and  Mr Hodges  of Queensland? Did the Commonwealth promise in April this year to hold discussions with the States before deciding on any future housing policy? Is there to be a meeting between the Commonwealth Minister for Housing and State housing Ministers next Friday? If so, what purpose will this meeting serve in the foreseeable future? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Air. Were the 24 F4E Phantom fighters and associated equipment delivered in accordance with the lease agreement, namely, between mid-September 1970 and January 1971? At what date do the leasing payments commence? Is it a fact that the lease will cost Australia $34m for the first 2 years? In the event of Australia actually taking delivery of the F111C fighter before the expiry of the first 2 years of the lease agreement will an adjustment be made to the leasing costs? For example, if the FI 1C aircraft were delivered within the first 12 months of the lease agreement would Australia be required to pay $17m only, or would it be obliged to pay the full $34m? 
I was not aware,  Mr Deputy President,  until you just made the announcement, that I would be afforded the opportunity to make a second maiden speech but I certainly welcome the opportunity and take advantage of it. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I tender my apologies. 
 I intended initially to join other honourable senators in congratulating those new senators who have made their first speeches in this chamber. I extend the same congratulations to those who will follow me. I understand that there are 2 more honourable senators to make their maiden speeches. It is quite an occasion, one to be remembered. I recall the importance of the swearing in ceremony when this new Senate was formed and the historic event which was recorded in the annals of this Senate when  Senator Bonner,  a member of the indigenous race of the Commonwealth of Australia, was the first of his race to be recognised to represent the people of Australia, and In particular the people of Queensland. I regret, of course, that  Senator Bonner  happens to sit on the other side of the chamber but that is his choice and we all exercise our choice. 
I wish to make a short summary of the Budget. I regret that  Senator Webster  has left the chamber for the time being. I hope he returns because I wish to direct the remaining period of my time to remarks he made on Wednesday evening in a most unwarranted and unjustified attack on the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Referring briefly to the Budget, it is 4 weeks and 1 day since the Commonwealth Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  introduced a budget which he said was designed to deal with an inflationary condition, variously attributed to cost pressures, cost push, cost and price inflation and demand inflation. The other evening the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in an unguarded moment referred to the current inflationary trends as wage inflation. I shall deal first with that section of the Budget which relates to estimated revenue. This describes the sources from which new revenue will be obtained and the way in which it will be obtained. I am sure that a brief reference to the Budget will indicate that the stated intention of the Treasurer to arrest the continuing price increases has no substance. In fact, the sections of the Budget to which I shall direct attention indicate clearly that, rather than reducing cost pressures in the economy the Budget will have the adverse effect of increasing the cost structure. 
I refer, firstly, to the new taxation measures. The Government has made a decision to increase company tax. No-one would imagine in his wildest dreams that an increase in company tax would not be passed on to the consumer. Obviously, increases in personal income tax will reduce what may be described as disposable personal income. The proposal to impose increased customs and excise duty on tobacco, cigarettes and cigars will also reduce disposable persona] income. The proposed increases in duty on motor spirit, automotive distillate used in road vehicles, aviation turbine fuel and aviation gasoline are probably the most inflationary increases that could be made, the reason being, as I understand it, that one of the major elements in our total cost structure is transport which is said to represent something like 25 per cent of our total cost structure. To increase customs and excise charges on fuels that are used in the transport industry must have only one effect - an inflationary effect. 
Increases in radio and television licence fees will play their part in reducing disposable income, as will the proposed increases in postal, telephone and telegram charges which must be passed back into the total economy. The proposed increase in shipping freight rates will be manifested in the cost structure. The increase from 50c to $1 in the cost of prescriptions must have the effect of lowering the level of disposable income. In due course it is proposed to consider the present level of navigation charges, but it can be expected that those charges will be increased and that any increases will be passed on to the community. If one takes into account the proposed increases in indirect taxation which will flow back into the cost structure, and add to them the reduction in what may be described as personal disposable income, one must come to the conclusion that there will be a discrepancy between the cost of goods and services, on the one hand, and the availability of purchasing power to consumers on the other hand. 
I was interested to read in the Treasurer's preamble to his Budget Speech his reference to the causes of inflation, specific mention being made of the wage factor. He said: 
In general, as we see the problem, there has been and still is a powerful upthrust of costs, stemming largely though not wholly from large wage claims relentlessly pursued. 
In the section of the Budget Speech under the heading 'Conclusion' the Treasurer said, among other things:  1 might mention, in this Budget context, that the Government is considering what might be done by way of strengthening the arbitration system and, in particular, bringing more to the forefront the economic consequences of decisions which are taken within that system. When these studies have been completed, we will consider whether further measures should be taken to cope with the problem of excessive cost and price increases. 
Stripped of all the camouflage, what the Treasurer is really saying in the preamble and in the conclusion to his Budget Speech to justify the measures thai had been introduced, is that the Government's attention has been oriented, by and large, to only one section of the economy, namely, the wage and salary earners. He went on to say: 
As il is. we believe the Budget will not discourage the real growth of the economy. Given the anticipated growth in productive capacity, there should be scope for growth in the demands of the private sector. 
What do we find? lt is now only 4 weeks and I day since the Budget was introduced yet the Melbourne 'Age' of 8th September 1971 carried an article under the heading Fears of big credit squeeze'. The article is in these terms: 
Australian business yesterday expressed concern at the prospect of a severe credit squeeze later in the 1971-72 financial year. 
That statement was made by the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia. The article goes on: 
The chambers are the latest in .a series of influential bodies to criticise the economic strategy of Hie Budget and to predict severe repercussions. 
The Australian Industries Development Association last week claimed the Government soon would have to take action to reverse the depressive effects of the Budget 
This week, a leading management consultation firm. W. D. Scott and Co., predicted that the Australian economy was heading for its worst unemployment situation since the 1961-63 recession 
If statements of that nature had been made by the Australian Labor Party we would have been charged with being alarmists, with panicking and with talking the country into a depression. Seeing that the statements were made by organisations which are identifiable and which basically are supporters of the Government, I think it can be held that the criticisms levelled at the Budget by the Australian Labor Party are not only fortified but, in fa-t, are supported to the hilt. In the 'Australian' of Friday, 10th September 1971 there appeared an article bearing the heading '100pc drop in new money for industry' and the sub-heading 'Figures show economy is running down fast". The article is as follows: 
The rise in the rate of capital spending in Australia is expected to drop by more than 100 per cent in the 6 months ending in December . . . A survey by the Bank of New South Wales and the Associated Chambers of Manufactures said only 38 per cent of manufacturers are operating at a satisfactorily full rate of operation. 
That means that 62 per cent of our industrial capacity is under-utilised at the - present time. The article goes on: 
This is the slowest anticipated growth rate in capital spending for 3 years. The survey of anticipated expenditure is probably on the optimistic side because it was taken in July before the Budget was brought down and before the international currency crisis. 
Our economist, Kenneth Davidson, says: 'So far most of the statistical evidence which has emerged since the Budget has pointed to a steeper downturn in the business circle than the Government expected. This is likely to show up in an even higher level of unemployment than the Government had planned as a result of the deflationary Budget'. 
I believe that those statements are justified and are based on fact. I turn now to the report of the Department of Labour and National Service which was presented the other evening. It disclosed that the figures for August 1971 showed an increase in unemployment and a decline in the number of jobs avaiable. There were 61,848 registered unempoyed which was 14,591 more than the number in August last year. A  truer  reflection of those out of work is the seasonally adjusted figure of about 75,000 people. The number of job vacancies fell to 34,673. Currently this means that 2 people are competing for each job available. However, the indicators portend even greater havoc in the labour market. This is disclosed in no uncertain terms in the 'Financial Review' of Tuesday, 14th September. I think members of the Government will concede that this is a reputable financial publication, lt reported: 
Unemployment is growing at the monthly rate of 6.6 per cent after allowing for seasonal factors. This is from a low base but it is a high rate of increase despite that 
Registered vacancies are falling at the monthly rate of 4.2 per cent. 
On one hand there is a rapid increase in unemployment and on the other there is an almost equivalent decline in the number of jobs available. The 'Financial Review' called into question the so-called demand inflation and destroyed the claim made by the Government in support of the Budget The article stated: 
The movement in personal consumption - the biggest single item in gross national expenditure - graphs out a plunging route. 
This would be expected to be a major element in terms of demand pressures. The article continued: 
In the March quarter of 1970 real personal consumption was growing at the annual rate of 4.8 per cent. 
Tn the June quarter of 1970 this had started to fade and the rate of real growth was 4.2 per cent. Then in September 1970 it was 4.1 per cent; in the December quarter, 2.8 per cent; the March quarter. 2.2 per cent; and the June quarter 1971 saw a real rate of increase of only 1.6 per cent. 
The figures covering the real rate of growth in gross national expenditure are just as disconcerting: 
They show that in the June quarter the real annual rate of growth was only 0.7 per cent. 
This figure has to be set against the March rate of increase of 5.4 per cent. But it remains a figure that no amount nf interpretation will support the proposition that demand was accelerating in the June quarter - Just the reverse. 
A real annual rate of growth of 0.7 per cent means that demand was in fact not keeping pace wilh population growth. 
One should add to that gloomy picture that has been painted by interested and influential elements in the community outside the Australian Labor Party the statement made only yesterday by  Mr Blyton, President  of the Associated Chambers of Commerce, about the latest unemployment figures. He said: 
The figures are a further indication that the level of economic activity is continuing to ease. 
He went on to say: 
It seems that now is the right time for the Government to inject some renewed life into the economy. 
The sentiments expressed by  Mr Blyton  were identical with the sentiments expressed by  Mr Herford,  the Federal  President  of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia. There is no doubt in my mind that the claims made by the Australian Labor Party have been borne out by the facts which I have just related, as stated by committees and interested organisations outside our movement. 
The attacks levelled at the trade union movement for being responsible, if not wholly then in a large part, for the current inflationary trends do not stand up to examination. I shall cite an example of the double standards of this Government. It is interesting to recall the reaction of the Government when the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, after a very extensive and minute examination of the national economy and industry generally, made a decision on the basis that industry could pay an additional 6 per cent in the wage bill. The Commonwealth Treasurer attacked the Commission and the bench of the Commission for its decision. He became almost hysterical about it. Within about 2 months, Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd which had not long before announced a record profit of $50m, stated that it proposed to increase the cost of its commodity by 8 per cent. What was the reaction of the Treasurer? He made the profound observation that it was a pity. That was hardly likely to strike fear into the hearts of members of the Board of Directors of BHP. 
I recognise that my speech is being broadcast. I say to those listening that the Budget was designed to disable (he trade union movement by a calculated and planned level of unemployment. What it has done is to register concern among business, commercial and manufacturing interests in the community at this time. I believe that whilst it is true that the Government would like to have that level of unemployment to be able to disable the trade union movement, I do not believe that business interests will permit the Government to allow this regressive and repressive trend to continue because their manufacturing interests are not being utilised fully and because this is interfering with their profitability. I understand that the Prime Minister has indicated that the position is not beyond reversal. I believe that one of two things should happen. If the Government does not see fit to reverse the trend now, in due course it should consider the introduction of a supplementary Budget. Serious consideration should be given to the reduction of bank interest charges and an injection of finance into the public sector of the economy to help stimulate and revive a flagging economy. It is beyond all doubt that the economy is flagging. 1 refer to the remarks made by  Senator Webster  last night. 
I note that remark. On Wednesday night  Senator Webster,  as is characteristic of members of the Government, found a pretext to attack the trade union movement. Supporters of the Government are always finding some pretext to do that. In the course of his speech on the Budget he found time to do precisely thai. He made 3 particular references, I quote from page 507 of Hansard of 7th September 1971 . He said: 
The prices and profit margins are not quite true in the context in which he tries to put them. 
He was answering an interjection by  Senator Georges.  He continued: 
I am very interested to hear his comment because thai is a proposition which the Australian Council of Trade Unions advanced.  Mr Hawke  was involved in putting before the public the general proposition that prices were the problem and that what the unions should do was to get into the activity themselves by getting into the ACTU store. 
The proposition pot to the public generally was that most businesses were making too high a percentage of profit or that they were adding too much margin in the prices of the goods they sold. Here was a leader with, I suggest, very little economic ability as far as business is concerned suggesting that he would run a business on no more than a 224 per cent mark-up. 
He referred in passing to the fact that the ACTU proposed to buy the store within 3 years. He stated: 
We all know that the ACTU has nol taken full control of the store. But it is counting on making sufficient profit out of this venture, however high ils prices may be, to purchase the store within 3 years. 
He repeated these assertions when he resumed speaking in the debate. He also attacked the trade union movement on these grounds - and 1 quote from page 533 of Hansard: 
I refer particularly lo the activity which has taken place in the blackmailing of the Dunlop organisation. While this was described as being in support of a proposition that resale price maintenance was something which was harmful, in truth that is far from the case. The reason for this action was that the ACTU store wanted to gel line leaders from the Dunlop organisation so that it would be able to rank in respect of stocking quality goods with like stores. 
I regret that I have not a great deal of time left, but 1 want to deal with those three outlandish assertions made by  Senator Webster.  1 am in a position, from first hand intimate knowledge, to do so. During the period I was out of office, from the day before the last Senate election until 1st July this year, I was engaged by the store to act as a public relations officer, as one commissioned to speak to groups within the community and to detail to them the facts concerning the ACTU acquisition of this store. Before accepting that appointment, I made it my business to ascertain, by first hand investigation and examination, precisely what it was all about. I did exactly that. Dealing with  Senator Webster's  first allegation, namely that  Mr Hawke  claimed that the store would operate on the basis of a 224 per cent mark-up across the board, this cannot be said to be so. 
What the honourable senator mixes up, of course, is that Prestige Ltd, a subsidiary of Dunlop Australia Ltd, refused to supply the Bourke's ACTU store buyers with certain female wear unless a condition of resale was observed, namely, that the resale price would be the price that the Bourke's ACTU store paid to Prestige Ltd - that is, the wholesale price, which included ali the overheads of manufacture! - plus a 424 per cent mark-up. The ACTU store said no. lt refused to comply with that condition of resale and insisted that it would purchase only on the basis of no resale conditions. It stated that it would be satisfied with a 224- per cent mark-up. That mark-up referred specifically to that subject matter alone. 
1 can say from direct, first hand information that that store operates on approximately 50 per cent of the average mark-up in the retail industry. That is right across the board - across the great range, variety and volume of quality goods which are available in that store. 1 now wish to deal with the honourable senator's second proposition, namely, that the ACTU proposed within 3 years to purchase these assets from accumulated profits. I can tell the honourable senator from first hand knowledge that the term of this agreement is 5 years. That is the first part of the agreement. It operates from 1st January 1971 to 31st December 1975. There is a sharing of what are described as disposable dividends equally between the original company and the ACTU over that period. At 31st December 1975 the ACTU will be in a position to exercise one of two options. One is to purchase outright the assets as agreed at 31st January 1971 and as valued at that time. If it has accumulated sufficient capital to be able to do that and if it desires to continue in this field of enterprise, the settlement will be made. If the ACTU decides that it wishes to consummate the agreement by purchasing the assets but the funds it has accumulated fall short of the actual value of the assets as determined on 1st January 1971, the agreement provides for a further arrangement of a 10-year agreement covering a different form of payment over that period of years. 1 am not aware of precisely where the honourable senator obtained his information. But it cannot be held that either of those 2 allegations that he made contains any substance whatsoever. 1 will now deal with the third allegation the honourable senator made, namely, about the ACTU blackmailing Dunlop Australia Ltd. It is interesting to note what the Melbourne 'Age' published. The Melbourne Age', to my knowledge, has never been a supporter of the ACTU. I will shorten this as a matter of courtesy to the Senate. In its editorial dated 19th March 1971 entitled "Freer enterprise' the Melbourne Age' stated: 
There is a real irony in the Australian Council of Trade Unions' 'victory' over Dunlop Australia Ltd. In effect, the militant action of the socialist trade union movement has helped to reinforce and preserve a basic tenet of capitalism - the belief in free and open competition.  lt went on to say: 
By forcing Dunlop Australia Ltd to supply goods to its store without retail price lags attached, the ACTU has, therefore, helped to sustain the competitive free enterprise economy. 
I do not think I am obliged at this late hour to waste the time of the Senate in repudiating the contents of the table that was incorporated in Hansard by  Senator Webster  with the concurrence of the Senate, lt outlined a comparison of prices between the Bourke's ACTU store and some of its competitors. If the information the honourable senator has relied on in the compilation of that table is as sound as the information he has relied on to justify the 3 assertions which cannot stand up to the light of day, it stands as discredited as I believe the honourable senator does. I do not believe that he did himself a service at all by the attack he made on this occasion. I hope that the Government will see cause to reverse the obvious trends which are ominous for the economy generally and so allow a developing economy to continue to expand in the best interests of the people as a whole. 
Sitting suspended from 5.52 to 8 p.m. 
I presume that honourable senators have received copies of the amendment whichI propose to move on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. I think, probably stating the obvious, that this Bill to amend the Social Services Act is one of the most important, if not the most important piece of legislation to be considered by this Parliament because it has an important effect on the living standards of over 1,000,000 people. I believe that those who are directly interested in thismatter - because they are recipients of social service payments - should have been entitled to look forward to something better than what is proposed in this amending BillI say that because of the statement which was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 15th March. At that time it was proposed as an interim measure to increase the pension rate by 50c. I understand that the increase was to operate from April 1971. I think that it is important to recount again what the Prime Minister said on that occasion. He stated. 
We will follow this immediate increase - 
That is the 50c I referred  to - in pension rates with a fundamental review of social services and related pensions and also of methods of adjusting such benefits. This review, which has already been commenced, will be under consideration in the near future with the object of bringing emerging decisions  into effect for the year 1971-72. 
I say again that I believe that those who had high hopes in relation to proposals to update our social welfare system should have expected something better than what appears in this amending Bill. There is no indication in this Bill of any emerging decisions as a consequence of the review which the Prime Minister announced had been, in fact, commenced. This is another Bill which increases, in a fashion, the various payments made to the recipients of social services. One would have hoped that the Prime Minister would have had a look at ways and means of improving the methods of adjusting such benefits and that he would have given consideration to relating the base pension to the average weekly income. The base pension would then have been tied to an index which would be readily acknowledged and which could be used as a method of automatically adjusting the base pension. Also one would have hoped that some general consideration would have been given to what is described as 'prosperity movements' in the community. This would have tied the provisions for social service payments to a realistic formula, to the benefit of those who are recipients. I move: 
At end of motion add: 'but the Senate is of opinion that - (1) the increases proposed are inadequate; (2) social services payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living; (3) steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty: (4) a national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated; (5) pension payments should be a proportion of average weekly earnings adjusted annually; and (6) a joint select committee should be established to inquire into and report upon the social welfare needs of the Australian community.' 
My remarks on this Bill will be tantamount to a justification for the terms of that amendment. The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in his second reading speech said: 
It is worth noting that the increases in the base rate are cumulative upon the interim 50c increase given last April. Measured from Budget to Budget the standard rate pension has been increased by $1.75 per week, and the married rate pension by $1.50 per week. This is by a considerable margin the greatest rise in a simitar period in the whole history of Australian pensions. In terms of buying power, the basic pension is now considerably higher than it was at the time of the last Budget, and is in fact higher than it has ever been in the whole history of Australian pensions. 
I suppose one could say that at least this proposal breaks the 50c, 75c and $1 barriers which it has been the standard practice of this Government to set for many years now. At least we can concede this. But although the pension rate is higher in the monetary sense it is no higher in terms of real purchasing value. Let us consider what happened on the last occassion that pensions were increased, the interim increase of 50c in April of this year. That increase went to only 77 per cent of age pensioners. Another 2 per cent received only part of the increase while 21 per cent of them received nothing. 
Looking at the statistics 1 have had complied to see who will be the recipients of the new increases I find again that a large number of people will receive only part of the increase and a large number will receive no increase whatsoever. For example, based on the new proposals, the full increase of the new age pension will be paid to 660,000 people and a part increase will be paid to 23,000 people. Those who will receive no benefit whatsoever number 148,000. In respect of invalid pensioners, 1 17,500 will receive the full increase, 1,500 will receive a part increase and 17,000 will receive no increase. In respect of widows, the full increase will be paid to 73,500, the part increase to 2,500 and 16,000 will receive no increase whatsoever. In total, grouping age, invalid and widows together, it means that a total of 851,000 will receive the full increase, 27,000 will receive a part increase and 181,000 will receive nothing whatsoever. That is not good enough. 
The Opposition says that the increases proposed are inadequate, as we state in our amendment. This can be shown by relating them to the average standards of prosperity. For instance, the single pension rate at the end of 1971 certainly will have increased as a percentage of the average weekly wage. But again this table shows that, although it is true that the current rate payable represents 18.9 per cent of the average weekly earnings and with the new increase proposed in this Bill it will represent 20.4 per cent of average weekly earnings, by the end of the financial year this will not be so. The basis for my saying that is that according to the Budget papers - 1 think it is to be found at page 39 of the statement attached to the 1971- 72 Budget - it is anticipated that there will be a 9 per cent increase in average weekly earnings by the end of the financial year. If we take that into account, it means that by the end of the financial year the single age pension will have fallen again to 18.7 per cent of the average weekly income. This will, in fact be the lowest level to which the pension has fallen as a percentage of the average weekly earnings in . the post-war period. 
I turn now to child endowment. One of course cannot consider endowment for the first child because it is not increased in this proposal. Based on the formula to which I have referred, endowment for 3 children under 16 years of age, with the proposed increase, will rise from 3.5 per cent of the average weekly earnings to 4.1 per cent until the end of this year. But by the end of the financial year in 1972 the value will have fallen and endowment will represent only 3.8 per cent of the average weekly income. According to the statistics supplied to me by the Legislative Research Service this will be the lowest percent since 1946. 
Turning to the class A widow's pension, we see that for a widow with one dependent child over 6 years, again there is an increase in the pension as a percentage of average weekly earnings from 26.6 per cent to 30.4 per cent. But again by the end of the financial year, having regard to the anticipated 9 per cent increase in average weekly earnings, the figure will drop to 27.9 per cent of average weekly earnings. The pension payable to a married person with a spouse unfortunate enough to be displaced from employment through unavailability of job opportunities or through sickness will increase under this Bill from 20.1 per cent of the average weekly earnings at the moment to 21.3 per cent. But again by the end of the financial year the percentage of average weekly earnings will have fallen to 19.6 per cent. I suppose one would have to concede the truth of what the Attorney-General said in his second reading speech when he made this statement: 
In terms of buying power, the basic pension is now considerably higher than it was at the time of the last Budget . . . 
But when we project the figures to the end of the financial year we see that that position will not be sustained. 1 turn now to the question of poverty which the Opposition refers to in its amendment. By using the formula adopted by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at the University of Melbourne one finds that on an updated poverty level the standard rate of pension is more than 5 per cent below the poverty line. That is according to the figures for the June 1971 quarter in Victoria. By the end of the financial year the rate will be more than  1  per cent below the poverty line. The unemployment and sickness benefits for a man with a spouse and 2 children reaching short term benefits will be $21.50 below the poverty line and will be more than $26 below it by the end of the financial year. 
The Opposition suggests - we believe rightly - that a national superannuation scheme should be established and at the same time the means test shoud be eliminated. This proposal is neither novel nor new. It has been discussed from time to time over the years but has never been acted upon. Through some research I found that this matter was first raised back in 1913 in the era of the Cook Government. It was raised again during the course of the Bruce-Page Government from 1923 to 1928. In 1938 the Lyons Government gave an undertaking to the people of the Commonwealth that it would in fact introduce a national superannuation scheme. I understand that it even prepared legislation. However, regrettably, this undertaking was in due course dishonoured. It is interesting to recall that the then Attorney-General, 

 Mr Robert Gordon Menzies, resigned; I quote the Sydney Moring Hearld as a most emphatic means of registering his protest. He protested against the failure of the Government of which he was a member to honour its undertaking to the country. 
In 1944, 1945 and 1949  Mr Menzies,  as Leader of the Liberal Party, reiterated on a number of occasions his commitment and pledge to the public in relation to the introduction of a system of national superannuation. In his policy speech in 1949 he said: 
Australia still needs a contributory system of national insurance against sickness, widowhood, unemployment and old age. It is only under such a system that we can make all benefits a matter of right and, so, completely get rid of the means test. During the new Parliament we will further investigate this complicated problem with " a view to presenting to you at the election in 1952 a scheme for your approval. 
I say on behalf of the Opposition that we agree wholeheartedly with the expressions of the then Leader of the Liberal Party. I regret to say that this was one of 2 major undertakings given to the people of the Commonwealth on that occasion that his Party failed to honour. The first undertaking - a famous one - was to put value back into the ?1, and the second was to introduce and present at the 1952 election for the approval of the people a national superannuation scheme. 
That is true. My friend, who is a little older than I am, particularly in experience; can recall that the Liberal Party had other names in earlier years, but it is true to say that a consistent attitude has been adopted by this conservative Government, by whatever name it might have been known in the past. From time to time it has at least considered a national superannuation scheme. In 1969 the Australian Labor Party committed itself to a phasing out of the means test and the introduction of a national superannuation scheme. We believe, as  Sir Robert  Menzies does, that it is only in this way that we will be able to provide a satisfactory system of social welfare. We believe that the currrent patchwork system of social services has no place in the later years of the 20th century. 
Australia, as the fourth wealthiest nation in the world, should be a leader in social reform. We have the resources and the ability to do this. Our people are entitled to nothing less than that. There are patently clear deficiencies in our social services system, and the Government's claim to have provided increases that more than matched the ever-increasing cost of goods and services cannot be sustained. The Prime Minister has given an undertaking, of which he should be reminded, that the Government would be prepared to give serious consideration to the establishment of a joint select committee to inquire into and report upon the social welfare needs of the Australian community. In other countries of comparable social and economic development there are systems of social welfare payments, retiring allowances and other fringe benefits which provide from 60 per cent to 80 per cent of average weekly earnings prior to retirement. If those countries can afford, as they obviously can, to provide for persons who have reached the twilight of their lives in retirement, at which time they are entitled to a sense of security and dignity, this Commonwealth Government and the nation can afford the same consideration for its citizens who have to rely on social services for their wellbeing 
I commend to the Senate the amendment (hat I have moved on behalf of the Opposition and I hope that it will be carried, particularly insofar as it relates to the establishment of a joint select committee to inquire into and report upon the social welfare needs of the Australian community. This would embrace the concept of a national superannuation scheme which at the same time would cater for the phasing out and complete abolition of the means test. 
1  regret that my colleague  Senator Wilkinson  raised the way in which honourable senators voted on the last amendment. He was critical of those honourable senators who voted against the proposal - which was that the words proposed to be left out be left out - on the basis that they had seen fit to attempt to take advantage- 
This is what the honourable senator was saying. 
The honourable senator took exception to the fact that they proposed to take advantage - if I might use that terminology - of an opportunity to achieve much the same result as they desired. Let me make the position perfectly clear. I had a discussion with a senior honourable senator on my side of the chamber prior to the completion of the debate in relation to the first part of the matter before the Chair. I spoke to him with the intention of moving a like amendment to the amendment which is now before the Chair in relation to the words which were proposed to be left out. Because it was thought that my action would create confusion I accepted the wise counsel that I should wait until the first part of the proposal was dealt with which was that the words proposed to be left out be left out. 
The status quo would have remained. That was a risk I took. I repeat that I think that my proposed action would have further confused the thinking of many honourable senators who have not applied themselves to this matter tonight. With great respect to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  I make the point that  1  was not impressed with the suggestion that the Senate is obliged to or expected to accept without question recommendations from any Senate committee. 
I assure the Minister that  1  think the Senate is, in fact, treating the proposals which are before it this evening very seriously. I repeat that I do not believe that under any circumstances the Senate should be expected simply to accept any recommendation from any committee. I am impressed with the arguments which have been put in relation to reducing in any shape or form the rights which presently exist for honourable senators to speak in this chamber. Such a reduction would be a regressive step. In this day and age it is said that we are concerned about time. I accept that proposition in the vein in which it is said. But I am also conscious of the fact that government is becoming much more complex as each day goes by. Having regard to the fact that this chamber is considered a second House which is said to review the work of the other place, I believe it is important to ensure that we have time thoroughly to examine the proposed changes of law which are placed before us from time to time from the other place. 
The question has been asked: 'What are we going to save anyway?'. On the one hand, we probably save a maximum of one hour but on the other hand we prevent an honourable senator - who may feel the necessity to speak for a certain time - having an opportunity to place his point before this chamber in a fashion which will be clearly understood by the Senate. For those reasons I support the amendment which has been moved by my colleague,  Senator Cant.  I sincerely trust that honourable senators will reconsider the way in which they voted recently. Technically, I think the vote was taken on the question of whether the time should not exceed 30 minutes or 20 minutes. I do not think the majority of honourable senators were really considering the matter of whether it would be appropriate that an honourable senator other than a Minister should be allowed to follow the mover. I again ask honourable senators to reconsider this position on the basis of the curtailment of the right of an honourable senator to speak for more than 10 minutes in addition to what is proposed in the Committee's recommendations. I support the proposal to allow 30 minutes. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Have steps been taken to provide suitable accommodation and facilities to the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal in Melbourne, following criticism of its accommodation in the Tribunals annual report for the year 1969-70; if not, when will the matter be rectified so as to provide a standard of service of the highest order to exservicemen and ex-servicewomen. 
Has the Minister for Health received a communication from  Mr W.  A. McKenzie, Federal Secretary of the Friendly Societies Dispensaries Association of Australia, dated 21st September 1971, relative to the effect of the National Health Bill 1971 on the societies' rebate systems for dispensing costs to its members? If so, will the Minister accede to the request of the federal executive of that Association for consultations with him before the National Health Bill passes through both Houses of the Parliament? 
 My question is directed to the Attorney-General, ls it a fact that, during the last 2 years, Commonwealth Police have had under regular surveillance the premises of the Students for a Democratic Society, now known as the Radical Action Movement, at Palmerston Street, Carlton, Victoria? Did the Commonwealth Police intensify this surveillance and maintain a constant watch on these premises on Saturday, 25th September, Sunday, 26th September and Monday, 27th September 1971? If so, how many Commonwealth cars were used to patrol the area and for how long? How many Commonwealth 
Police were used for this purpose and for what period? Did the Commonwealth Police have warrants to search the said premises? Finally, for what reason has this organisation been subject to such attention? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Do timber sleepers constitute about 10 per cent of Australia's total sawn timber production. 
Have supplies of timber sleepers been suffering from a lack of orders over recent years. 
Will the slowing down of sleeper production aggravate the present economic problems of rural areas. 
Will the AttorneyGeneral provide to the Senate specific answers to the questions which I asked yesterday with respect to the surveillance by Commonwealth Police of the premises of the Radical Action Movement at Palmerston Street, Carlton, Victoria, during 25th, 26th and 27th September 1971? How many Commonwealth cars were used to patrol the area and for how long were they used? How many Commonwealth Police were used for the purposes of this exercise and for how long were they engaged? What was the total cost to the Commonwealth of this operation? 

 - Mr President, may I ask a supplementary question? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is it a fact that 200 Commonwealth police carried out a raid at 5 o'clock this morning on Union House in the grounds of the Melbourne University? Is it a fact that keys were offered to the police to gain entry but were refused? Were keys also available from the fire protection unit on request but not availed of by the police? Is it a fact that to gain entry the police smashed some 30 doors and other property? ls the Commonwealth responsible for the repair of the damage caused to the doors and other property in the raid by the police? Is the Minister aware that  Mr Bell,  Registrar of Melbourne University, early this morning commended the students for their conduct during the raid? Will the Minister provide the Senate with specific answers to the following questions? How many Commonwealth cars and police were used? What time was spent by them on the raid? What were the total costs in terms of wages and salaries paid for the operation? What is the total cost of the repair of the damage caused by the police? What purpose did the raid serve? 
 Mr President,  I wish to ask a supplementary question. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that several days before the raid on Union House last Thursday morning the Acting Vice-Chancellor of the University of Melbourne, Professor John Andrews, spoke to officers of the Attorney-General's Department about the presence of draft resisters in Union House? Is it a fact also that the Registrar of the University of Melbourne, and the University's solicitor, met representatives of the Attorney-General's Department, the Commonwealth Police Force and the Postmaster-General's Department some time before the raid? What was the purpose of those communications and meetings? What was the outcome of them? 
My question, addressed to the Attorney-General, in part was asked earlier. However I am expanding the question asked by my Leader. Is the Attorney-General aware that there are grave doubts as to whether the Commonwealth police officers in fact had warrants to enter and search Union House, University of Melbourne, last Thursday morning? ls the Minister aware also that the Acting Vice-Chancellor of the University of Melbourne, Professor John Andrews, has said in a prepared statement dated 1st October 1971 that he has established to his satisfaction that the Registrar, Brigadier A. T. J. Bell, in the company of the Secretary/ Manager of Union House,  Mr Ron  Field, asked officers of the Commonwealth Police Force to produce the warrants but they did not do so? Why did the officers not produce the warrants? I further ask the Minister whether, if the police officers did have warrants, the warrants were to enter and search and apprehend on those premises last Thursday morning? Were they based on information in affidavits supplied to the magistrate who issued the warrants? Will the Minister have tabled in the Senate as soon as possible both the warrants and the affidavits? 
I wish to ask a supplementary question of the AttorneyGeneral. If I table for the Minister a copy of the statement issued by Professor Andrews on Friday, 1st October, outlining as it does the subject matter of my previous question, will he then cause to be tabled in the Senate the documents to which I referred in that question? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware of the prepared statement issued by  Dr J.  W. Watson,  President  of the Melbourne University Staff Association, dated 1st October 1971, on behalf of that body calling for an open inquiry, headed preferably by a supreme court judge, into whether members of the Commonwealth Police Force used needless force and inflicted unnecessary damage in their entry into and search of the Union building at the University of Melbourne? Is the Minister prepared to facilitate such an inquiry in the interests of both the Commonwealth Police Force and responsible officers of the University of Melbourne? If not, why not? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In answer to a question yesterday he intimated that some time on Monday of this week he inspected Union House. Did he ask or make himself known to any person responsible for the conduct and control of the Union, such as members of the Union Board of Directors, the Secretary-Manager or Union staff? If he did not, why? Was he accompanied by anyone who could have assisted him, as I was earlier that day, to see the damage alleged by the university authorities to have been caused by Commonwealth police? 
I preface my question to the Attorney-General by reminding him that on Tuesday I asked for the tabling of all warrants that would have been necessary to effect the intention of the rail last Thursday on the University of Melbourne. Will he now table the warrants? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. This question has in part been asked before, but I propose to expand on the previous quesion asked. Is the Attorney-General aware that the Acting Vice-Chancellor of the University of Melbourne, Professor John Andrews, is reported in today's Melbourne 'Age' as having reaffirmed his statement of 1st October that Commonwealth Police were asked to produce search warrants when they raided the university that week? Is the Attorney-General aware that Professor Andrews said that the Registrar,  Mr A.  T. Bell, asked the police to produce their warrants at about 7.15 a.m. but they did not do so? Is he also aware that Professor Andrews said that the statement by  Senator Greenwood  in this chamber on Tuesday of this week was incorrect? In view of the serious implications of Professor Andrews' statement, will the Attorney-General reconsider my request of last Tuesday and initiate an open inquiry in the interests of the Commonwealth Police and the responsible officers of the University of Melbourne? 
Is the Minister for Health aware that recent changes to the national health scheme affecting the hospital and medical benefit entitlements of many insured pensioners are causing great confusion and hardship? Will the Minister ascertain whether fund organisations are accepting contributions from pensioners for hospital benefits which cover them for public ward treatment only? . If they are, what benefits can the funds provide for a pensioner that he or she is not already entitled to? Is it a fact that pensioners who insure themselves for intermediate and private ward hospital benefits have to pay all fees charged for medical treatment while in either ward? Will the Minister, as a matter of urgency, make a comprehensive statement to clarify the position for pensioners, who are eligible for the pensioner medical service and who belong to fund organisations for hospital and/or medical benefits, as to their entitlement under the pensioner medical service scheme and their entitlement to the payment of benefits from a fund organisation? 
I shall provide a comprehensive answer to this comprehensive question which contains many implications, particularly as to conditions which may apply in the various States. As a general rule in New South Wales a condition of the treatment of a pensioner in a hospital is that no charge shall be made. It is a consideration in regard to payments by the Commonwealth to the States for this purpose that no charge shall be made in respect of pensioners who are treated in public wards of hospitals. Insofar as pensioners are insured and would attract a refund in respect of intermediate wards, there are implications as to the position in one State vis-a-vis another. I would not like to give an answer on that point during question time, but tomorrow I shall give a comprehensive answer which will cover the position in all States. Bearing in mind that the honourable senator and I are from different States, I would not like there to be any confusion as to what I said and in which State it applied. 
Is the Minister for Health aware of the suggestion by Professor Levine, a recognised world authority on diabetes, that Australia should set up a national public testing programme for diabetes because the number of people with diabetes was growing and population testing was crucial in the fight against this disease? Will the Minister examine the professor's suggestion with a view to initiating measures to implement such a scheme? 
My attention has been drawn to the statement made by the professor. I have asked to have it processed so that I may be informed of the background and have some examination of it. When this has been done, I shall reply in the Senate to the honourable senator's question. 
ls the Minister for Health aware that the Pharmacy Guild of Australia is organising a petition objecting to the 100 per cent increase in patient contributions for national health prescriptions because, as the Federal President of the Guild says, the scheme has been introduced prematurely and areas of anomaly and confusion exist? I ask the Minister: Has the Guild made any submission to the Government? If so, what consideration has the Government given to these submissions? 
I remind the Senate that this decision is embodied in an Act of the Parliament. The enacting Bill was freely debated in the other place and here. The points of view that were put by some speakers in that debate in the other place and here were no doubt put after consultation with the Guild. It is true that the Guild has expressed views to the Department. I come back to the point that this was a Government policy decision which found its mark in an Act of the Parliament which was debated 2 or 3 weeks ago. I can add no more than that. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Supply assure the Senate that in the event of an agreement being reached, arising out of the current negotiations between the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, the terms and conditions of such agreement shall be subject to ratification by the Commonwealth Parliament? 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
How many Commonwealth cars were used to maintan surveillance of the premises of the Radical Action Movement' at Palmerston Street, Carlton, Victoria during the period 25th to 27th September 1971, and for how long were these car used for this purpose. 
How many Commonwealth Police were used for the surveillance, and for how long. 
What was the cost of maintaining the surveillance. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Two Commonwealth cars were used for  a  period of 43 hours. 
Four Commonwealth policemen were used for the surveillance for a period of 43 hours. 
$469.16. 
I wish to raise a question in relation to clause 4 of the Bill. Clause 4 states: 
The execution on behalf of the Commonwealth of the Loan Agreement, and the borrowing by the Commonwealth in accordance with that agreement of moneys in the currency of the United States of America not exceeding Ninety million dollars, are approved. 
In August 1970 I asked a question of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson who represents the Treasurer relating to the previous loans that had been raised to assist in the financing of the 24 F111C aircraft. I asked for the aggregate amount of the loans, the interest rate on each loan, the amount that had been drawn upon from each loan, and the  terms  and conditions of each loan. In answer to that question, the Treasurer stated that the 2 loans of$US80m and $US75m respectively had been approved to assist in financing the purchase of the 24 F111C aircraft, spares and associated equipment, the source of each loan being the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Theloans were arranged - I want the years to be noted - in 1966 and 1968. The aggregate amount of the loans was $US155m. The interest rate on the loan of $US80m was 4 percent and on the loan of$US75m was 6 per cent. Drawings of $US77.2m had been made on the$US50m loan but it was stated there had not been any drawings on the$US75m loan. The pointI am making here is that between 1966 and 1968 the Government, by means of a Bill similar to that now before us, sought approval to raise$US155m from the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Yet by August 1970 we had. in fact, used only$US77.2m, which meant that there was in the vicinity of $US77.8m still outstanding. I presume that we would have been committed to a commitment fee of per cent for the undrawn balance since that time. 
The objection I take to clause 4 is that we are being asked to approve a Bill to raise an amount of$US90m from the same source not knowing, as my colleague  Senator Cavanagh  said in the course of his remarks, whether it would be required to be spent in the purchase of hardward from the United States. At the same time approximately $US77m could still be outstanding from the previous loans and available to be drawn on. If that is the case, I believe that the Opposition has been thoroughly justified in expressing opposition to this proposal. I would like the Minister, if he can, to tell the Senate whether the outstanding amount of loan available to the Commonwealth Government because of previous Bills of this kind has been used. If it has been used, for what purposes has it been used? 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Did 200 Commonwealth Police make a raid at 5 a.m. on 30th September 1971 on Union House on the grounds of the University of Melbourne. 
Were offers of keys to gain entry refused by the police, and were keys available from the Fire Protection Unit on request, but not sought by the police. 
Did the police damage about 30 doors and other property in order to gain entry to the building; if so, is the Commonwealth Government responsible for restoration of the damage, and what will be the cost of doing so. 
Did the Registrar of the University of Melbourne commend students for their conduct during the raid. 
How many Commonwealth Police and vehicles were used for the raid, and what time was spent in carrying out the raid. 
What purpose was served by the raid. 
I am afraid that the Minister's reply to the questions that I raised on the last occasion on which this Bill was before the chamber docs not satisfy the objections I raised to our being asked to agree to the terms of this Bill. Since that occasion I have asked, as obviously the Minister has done, the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Stat istical Service to provide certain information to me; and I must say that it does not accord completely with the document that has been circulated by the Minister. Because the limitations of time will not permit me to discuss it fully, I seek leave to have this table incorporated in Hansard. 
Yes. 
Yes, and additional questions. I seek leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 

<graphic href="050232197111235_42_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197111235_43_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197111235_44_0.jpg"></graphic>

 I draw attention to the loan for $US75m. It was the subject of an agreement made in 1968: The interest rate was 6 per cent, plus a commitment fee of 0.5 per cent. At 31st October 1971 only$US1 78,000 had been drawn, leaving $US74,822,000 outstanding and available to be drawn on. Secondly, I draw attention to the loan for$US39.4m. It was raised in 1970 at an interest rate of 4.75 per cent There was no commitment fee. At 31st October 1971 an amount of $US20,787,000 was still outstanding. Thirdly, I draw attention to the loan for $US89m. It was the subject of an agreement made in 1970. The interest rate was 7.125 per cent and the commitment fee was 0.5 per cent. At 31st October 1971 an amount of$US52,401 , 000 was still available to be drawn on. Fourthly, I draw attention to the loan for $US123m.It was the subject of an agreement made in 1970. The interest rate was 7.375 per cent and the commitment fee was 0.5 per cent. At 31st October 1971 the amount remaining to be drawn on was$US2 1,704,000. 
In respect of those 4 loans the amount outstanding and available to be drawn on for defence purposes is no less than $ US 169,7 14,000. On those 4 loans- one of them goes as far back as 1968 - we are paying a commitment fee of 0.5 per cent. It is true that there are notations on the table that has been supplied to me.In respect of the amount of $US20,787,000, which is part of a loan that was raised in 1 970, the notation reads: 
The unused balance of this loan will be drawn to finance payments on defence orders already placed in the United States. 
In respect of the amount of $US52,40l,000, which is the amount outstanding and available to be drawn on under a loan that was raised in 1970, the notation reads: 
The limited balance of this loan is earmarked for additional procurement. 
In respect of the final amount of $US2 1, 704,000. which is outstanding and available to he drawn on and which is part of an original loan of$US123m, the notation reads:  $US74.2m of this loan has been cancelled and the unusedbalance of$US21.7m will be drawn to finance payments on defence orders already placed in the United Stales. 
So. although the last 3 amounts available to be drawn on appear to have earmarked, that does not account for the $US74,822,000 which is outstanding as part of a loan raised in 1968 and upon which we are still paying a commitment fee. In seekingto ascertain the amount of money that we borrow from the ExportImport Bank of the United States from lime to time. I asked the Library to supply me with additional information. The information supplied to me indicates thai about $US39,265,000 is still available to be drawn on for the purchase of aircraft for Qantas Airways Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines. I appreciate that they are corporate bodies and that those loans arc separate and distinct from the subject matter of which we are speaking. 
Notwithstanding the fact that at this stage$US169,714,000 is still outstanding and available to be drawn on from the Export-Import Bank, on this occasion we are being asked to approve the further borrowing of $90m. I believe it is reasonable to say that honourable senators are entitled to have precise information on the hardware or defence equipment that the Government intends to purchase. The 2 points that have been made by my colleagues in respect of our opposition to this Bill are valid, in my humble opinion. But, in addition, Ibelieve that the statistics that honourable senators have been good enough to allow me to have incorporated in Hansard show that the Department of Defence and the Government do not have a firm objective in view, in terms of the types of equipment that we require for the defence of this nation, at the times when they are seeking approval of these loans. 
This also raises the question of the arrangements we have with the ExportImport Bank of the United States, from which we seem to be seeking loans continuously. The money probably never leaves the country because under clause 7 of the bill we are committed to making the appropriate payments in respect of the moneys borrowed, commitment fees and interest payable on these loans out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. I believe that the Government should supply much more information to us before we can be expectedto approve a loan for $90m when there is such a large amount which is standing to the credit of the Commonwealth of Australia with the same source and on which we can draw. 
1 am still concerned about the reasons for expenditure given in the statement that has been circulated by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  I refer specifically to item (b), namely a $US75m loan for Fill aircraft. Evidently, that loan was approved and we had access to it in or about October 1968. The interest bearing charge is 6 per cent and there is a commitment fee of .5 per cent. I ask to be corrected if 1 am wrong, but I understand that the commitment fee is payable on what is described as the undrawn amount of the loan available to the borrower. The loan matures in 1978. According to the statement the Minister has presented to the Senate, there is no reference to this in the column headed 'Amount drawn at 30th June 1971', and nor is there reference to it in the column headed 'Amount outstanding at 30th June 1971'. So far as I can ascertain from the information that I have obtained from the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Statistical Service there is still 74.822m outstanding. Why are we committed to pay not only the interest bearing charge of 6 per cent but also the 0.5 per cent continuously for that undrawn amount when we have been informed already in answers to questions addressed to the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  that we have not a firm, final figure although in an answer to a question from me last year he did indicate that the latest figure of cost to the Australian Government for the purchase of the FI 1 1 aircraft was approximately $265m. Why are we still allowing that amount of loan available to us to lie idle while we pay the extra 0.5 per cent interest bearing charge? 
It is not my intention to delay the Senate, but the Minister has still, not answered my question. I am not querying at all the commitment fee. We are not querying at this stage the purpose of the Bill because it has been explained to us. I am concerned about whether we can be confident that the explanation given by the Minister in seeking approval for this Bill. will, in fact be carried out. My doubts arise, from the fact that in 1968 a similar Bill was introduced to gain approval to borrow $75m for payments on FI 1 1 aircraft. On 28th June last year I was informed by the. Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  that $252m had been authorised for purchase of FI 1 1 aircraft. That figure corrects a figure I gave earlier. I am seeking' to find out why that sum of $75m has been allowed to lie there and to commit the Australian taxpayers to an interest charge of  i  per cent since' October 1968. It could have been paid and we could have been relieved of that charge. . 
I disagree completely with the Minister's suggestion that it is a question of philosophy whether you should raise money in your own country to purchase military equipment, or should raise it elsewhere. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 10.48 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the Senate for dinner and the meetings of the Estimates committees I had commented again on the 1968 loan of 574.822m which was still outstanding and available to be drawn upon. I had asked the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  why this loan had not been -availed of and why it remained available to the borrower "when we were sill paying the 0.5 per cent commitment fee on it. The Minister referred in passing to the proposed loan dealt with in the Bill now before the Committee and mentioned that the interest charge of 6.5 per cent and the commitment fee of 0.5 per cent were, in his words, a very reasonable charge to be made for borrowing that amount ot money. 
He said thai it was a reasonable rale of interest for borrowing that money. The Minister referred to the difference between the philosophy of the Government on the matter of financing our defence requirements and that of the Opposition. According to this philosophy, evidently, it is more favourable for the Commonwealth to obtain long term loans from other sources than to raise them within the Commonwealth itself. I point out to him that in August 1970 f asked a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer about the 2 loans raised for the purpose of purchasing the Fill aircraft, namely, the loan in 1966 of $US80m and the loan in 1968 of $US75m: I asked what would be (he aggregate" of all loans plus interest when repayments were completed. The reply I received from the Treasurer was as follows:  lt is not possible to calculate precisely the amount of principal repayment plus interest, since it is nol known whether or when further drawings will be made. However, on the  assumption  that the full amounts of both loans are fully drawn repayments plus interest would total approximately  $US181m. 
This means in effect that the original loan of $US155m is to cost the Commonwealth $US26m. Total repayment will amount to $US181m. From my calculations I understand that this represents something like a 161 per cent charge for the use of this money. 
This is something that the Minister might look at further. This is not cheap money. I repeat that I believe that the Government should be prepared, when seeking approval for this Bill, to disclose to honourable senators the reason why loans entered into as far back as 1968 have not yet been drawn upon and why we should be required to approve a loan for a further S90m tonight when there is still something like $170m outstanding and available to be drawn upon.  1  say that notwithstanding the fact that there has been some indication that some part of those undrawn loan moneys has been committed to defence orders already placed in the United States. Part of it has been earmarked for additional procurements. However, that is a rather vague statement, to say the least. Some additional drawings will be made to finance payments for defence items for which orders already have been placed with the United States. 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I propose to couch it in terms identical to those used in the question 1 asked on 11th November. I ask the Minister: When am I likely to receive answers to questions Nos. 1301 and 1302 standing in my name on the notice paper? They were asked on Thursday, 26th August and seek information about the Port Augusta-Whyalla railway line. 
It is important to remind the Senate of the motion that is before it for consideration this evening. It is essential for me to do this because of the display of semantics and the balderdash I have listened to from honourable senators on the Government side and on the cross benches since this debate commenced. The motion seeks the promotion of the economy and the relief of unnecessary distress by the immediate increase in unemployment benefits and other social services. This motion is timely, appropriate and justified because I doubt very much whether any responsible person, even on the Government side of this chamber, would not be prepared to concede that the current state of the economy gives rise to grave concern. During the debate on the Budget members of the Australian Labor Party were charged with being prophets of doom because of this assessment of the Budget. We expressed the view that amongst other things unemployment would rise to and remain at a high level. The Opposition also pointed out that because of the Government's failure to deal with profit inflation the social service payments which were being increased by the Budget would be literally valueless in a short space of time. There is no doubt that events since that time bestow a judgment on our prediction that cannot be refuted. 
I was amazed to listen to honourable senators on the Government side refer to unemployment in purely statistical terms. 
They had the temerity to compare Australia's unemployment figure as a proportion of the total work force with that of some other nation. We are not dealing with statistics; we are dealing with people. I am sure that honourable senators opposite do not understand what happens to an individual when he is dispossessed of his employment. In that situation a man suffers degradation, a loss of dignity and a sense of frustration. The loss of a man's sense of being able to provide for his family is something to be witnessed and observed at first hand. Obviously that is something which honourable senators opposite have never done. 
Let us examine the statistics. This is a serious matter which is not to be fobbed off in the way that honourable senators opposite have attempted this evening. The figures for August, which already have been referred to, show that there were 61,848 registered unemployed, which was 14,591 more than in August last year. According to the adjustments made to reflect the seasonally adjusted figures for those out of work, the figure was 75,000 unemployed. I make the point very firmly that those figures reflect only the number of people who go to the trouble of registering for employment. I am aware from first hand knowledge that for every person who goes to the employment bureau to register for employment there would be at least one or two others who do not do so. So the figures I have cited are a conservative estimate of the number who are unemployed. The number of job vacancies at that time in August was 34,673. That shows that there were 2 people looking for every job that was available. In the Melbourne 'Herald' of Wednesday, 8th September 1971, the following headline appeared: 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is he aware that one of the most important meetings ever held commences today in Kuala Lumpur, attended by (he Foreign Ministers of Thailand, the Philippines, Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia? Is the Minister also aware that the stated objective of this conference is the creation of a zone of peace and neutrality in South East Asia which will include the 5 members of the Association of South East Asia Nations plus Burma and all of Indo-China? Has any attempt been made by the Government to seek membership of or consultation with this group of nations? If not. why not? As the conference is scheduled for the next 3 days I ask the Minister will he, on behalf of the Commonwealth Government of Australia, send a message of fraternal greetings and best wishes to this momentous conference? 
Will I put the question on notice? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, perhaps you could do that. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Were tenders for the supply ofsleepers for the Port Augusta-Whyalla railway line received from both Australian and overseas organisations: if so, who were the tenderers. 
Were tenders specifically called for the supply of concrete sleepers. 
What prices and conditions were submitted by each tenderer. 
Did invitations for tenders, for both timber and concrete sleepers, close on the same day. 
Was the successful tenderer selected from lenders which did nothave subsequent variations if not, what were the reasons for the variations to the tender. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What were the results of feasibility studies to decide the type of sleeper to be used in the proposed Port Augusta-Whyalla railway line. 
Did such studies take account of experience in other countries and particularly in the United Kingdom, where the trend is now towards the use of timber sleepers. 
What are the estimated relative costs, including ballasting and associated installations, of positioning timber and concrete sleepers. 
Did Commonwealth Railways, in deciding upon the use of concrete sleepers, take into account the ready availability of timber species which have proved to be eminently suitable for sleepers. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Further to my question of last Thursday I ask the Minister: Did the Commonwealth Government communicate in any way with the conference of Foreign Ministers of the 5 member nations of the Association of South East Asian Nations during their deliberations at Kuala Lumpur on Thursday, Friday and Saturday of last week? 
I ask the Minister for Air: Will the cost of renovation of the 24 Fill fighter aircraft to bring them up to new condition because of their having been exposed to the elements on the tarmac at Fort Worth for a long time be an additional cost to the final purchase price? Has the Government been able to finalise negotiations on the parking fee to be paid for the aircraft while at Fort Worth? If so, what is the cost involved? 
With all respect to the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  all he did was to explain to me precisely what I could observe in the document supplied to every honourable senator giving details of the variations in the Estimates. 1 had pointed out that 38.000 service personnel had served in Vietnam and that over 6,000 of them had made application to the Repatriation Commission for assistance under the national service vocational training scheme. I cited all these reasons to justify my question. My question is simply this: Can the Minister state where one can find the anticipated expenditure for the national service vocational training scheme for 1971-72? Ft is as simple as that. 
Mv request is for information in respect of a division of the estimates for the Repatriation Department. I have been looking in vain for information relative to the servicing of the scheme known as the national service vocational training scheme. The only item which, it appears to me, could incorporate an anticipated expenditure on this important subject matter may be found under division 466  -  Other Repatriation Benefits. I refer to item 10  -  Miscellaneous. To endeavour to ascertain whether that item incorporates an anticipated expenditure for the servicing of the national service vocational training scheme, I have taken the opportunity to examine the document that was provided by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman).  as Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, in the form of an explanation of variations. The explanation of item 10 states that its purpose is: 
To meet expenditure on recreation transport allowances, medical rehabilitation, funeral expenses, small business loans, educational grants to children under 12 years, recoverable expenditure for other countries, and miscellaneous benefits. 
That tells me nothing in respect of the matter on which I am seeking information. I am prompted to ask my question because in a document prepared by the Repatriation Department and dated July 1971 - it is a public document now; it was submitted to a committee by that Department on 5th November this year - there is a table entitled: 'Table 1 - Estimated Surviving Ex-servicemen as at 30 June 1971'. The document indicates that the number of surviving ex-servicemen from the Special Service, Vietnam conflict is 38,000. There is no breakdown to indicate the number of members of the regular Forces and the number of national service trainees, the conscripts. I understand, according to the Repatriation Department, that only exnational service trainees would be entitled to avail themselves of the national service vocational training scheme. At page 47 of the document, paragraph 17, reference is made to the provision of business ieestablishment loans of up to $3,000 and to loans of up to $6,000 to assist persons to re-establish themselves for agricultural purposes. Then the document goes on to refer to post-discharge training where necessary or desirable for the effective re-settlement of national servicemen. This document indicates the description of the training and the allowances which are made available. 
I have obtained information from the Parliamentary Library to the effect that as at 30th June this year 6,452 applications had been received for training under the national service vocational training scheme. Of those applications 4,913 had been approved, 551 had been declined, 535 had been withdrawn or had lapsed and 53 had not been decided. To service this scheme there is quite an elaborate central training committee of which the Minister would be aware -and it is augmented and supported by regional training committees. I would have thought that the anticipated expenditure in this field would have warranted a specific reference in the Appropriation Bill. lt may well be that because of the limitations of the opportunities available to exnational service trainees the scheme has not been as attractive as previous post-war reconstruction schemes have been. 
Nevertheless, I ask the Minister whether he can point out to me where in this Appropriation Bill I can find the section dealing with the appropriation for this scheme which comes within the ambit of the Repatriation Department. Secondly, what is the amount allocated to service the scheme? 
asked the Minister rep  resenting the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Will the Minister give an assurance that any agreement arrived at for the amalgamation of the Governoment Aircraft Factory and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation will be subject to ratification by the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did an important meeting of Foreign Ministers of Thailand, The Philippines, Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia take place in Kuala Lumpur on 25th November 1971, and is it a stated objective of the meeting to create a zone of peace and neutrality in South-East Asia, which will include these 5 nations, Burma, and the whole of Indo-China. 
Has the Government made any attempt to obtain membership of, or consultation with, this group of nations; if not, why. 
Will the Minister send to this momentous conference a message of fraternal greetings and best wishes. 
In supporting the amendments moved by  Senator Poyser  I would like to concentrate my remarks on amendments Nos 2 and 5. These are the amendments which would increase the amount of the loan from $9,000 to $15,000. I acknowledge, as I am sure all honourable senators do, the tremendous value that the war service homes scheme has been to those who have served Australia in the armed forces. I regret some of the remarks made by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  but I do not propose to answer them because of the time limitation. He seemed to indicate a fear that we may be acting ^responsibly in proposing to increase the amount available for this purpose which is set out in the Appropriation Bill. He said that we must have due regard to the people who always pay anyway - the taxpayers. The Minister seemed to imply that the Government - I am not concerned with its political flavour; it just happens to be the Government of the day - was just handing out money for which there would be no return. 
I want to correct that idea because that is the impression that most people would draw. I refer honourable senators to the annual report of the Director of War Service Homes for 1970-71 which was tabled within the last day or so. On page 5 of that report, under the heading 'Erection of Homes', an indication is given of the increase in the cost of a home in only 12 months. The report states: 
It has been the practice to include in the annual report particulars of the average cost of homes erected under the Act during the year, including the average cost of lots on which the homes were erected. These details in respect of the year ended 30th June 1971 are given in Appendices 'L' and M Appendix 'N' shows the average cost of all homes built or financed under the Act' during 1970-71 and indicates that the average cost increased from $13,940 for 1969-70 to $14,821 for 1970-71. 
That is an increase of about $900 in one financial year alone. To support that general observation by the Director I refer honourable senators to Appendix 'L* on page 31 of this report. I do not propose to read the total average cost of homes erected each year since 1st July 1961 but the table shows - I may seek leave to have this table incorporated in Hansard in due course - that over the period of 10 years from 1961-62 to 1970-71 there have been overall increases averaging $4,000, $5,000 and $6,000 in the cost of erecting a home under the War Service Homes Act. I refer honourable senators to an example. In New South Wales in 1961-62 the cost of a block of land and the erection of a dwelling on it averaged $8,480. In 1970-71 the figure was $14,990. 
Yes, I am sorry. I thank the Minister. This example is repeated again and again in the other States. This indicates that there has been a substantial increase in the cost of erecting a home under the War Service Homes Act 
It is well to recall that the size of the loan available to eligible applicants under this Act was last increased in November 1968 when the figure rose to S8,000. 1 again draw the attention of honourable senators to Appendix 'M' and the column for New South  Wales. We find thai in 1967-68, when the Government decided to increase the amount of the war service loan to $8,000, the average cost of a lot .and home in New South Wales was $11,388. Today, according to this table, the average cos' is $14,990- an increase of about $3,600. All that the Government has seen, fit to do is to propose, to increase the loan by SI. 003 to a maximum of $9,000. It does not relate the size of the loan to the facts clearly indicated in the report of the Director of War Service Homes. 
In addition, I think it is essential to support the view I expressed earlier. This is to be found on page 2 of the report of the Director of War Service Homes under the heading 'Summary of (he Year's Activities' where there is a table which indicates that for the year 1969-70 the total expenditure on the provision of homes was nol less than $55m. In the same year, 1969-70, total receipts amounted to $77,911,042. I now direct the at'ention of the Committee to the year 1970-71. Total expenditure on the provision of homes for that year was $61m - it will be noted that 1 am referring only to these 2 specific items - while total receipts for that year amounted to not less than $78,483,262. This indicates that there is a substantial return on the investment from year to year. This year, according to the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on 17th August, the amount being allocated for capital purposes for war service homes has been reduced by $lm to $60m. but there is no reason to believe that results of the kind that were achieved in the years 1969-70 and 1970-71 will not -be repeated this year. Therefore, total receipts can be expected to be in the vicinity , of about $20m in excess of the amount allocated by the Government in the 2 previous years and in this current year. 
To fortify what I have said already about what may be described as a revolving fund which is costing the Commonwealth nought in the final analysis, I direct attention to' page 19 of the report of the 
Director of War Service 1 forties where, under the heading 'Financial Operations' the following appears: 
The U"&gt;ta! capital  expenditure  order the War Service Homes Act from the inception  of  the scheme  to  30th June 1971 ' no'"- stands at $1,426,749,842. 
Receipts since the inception of the scheme to .'Oi.'i June 1971, including interest paid on relief expenditure, had  now  reached a tout of $994,605,695. 
On balance it means, in effect, that since the inception of the war service homes scheme in approximately 1919, some 52 years ago, there is currently outstanding about $50Gm. But notwithstanding 'hat. in my view the scheme is nothing more than a revolving fund with money going out and money coming in. What the Opposition "is say,ne to the Government is that notwithstanding that this Bill provides the legislative machinery to meet the i ii te ntions of the Budget, it is not impossible for the Government 10 review the situation, based on the facts that they have placed before it in respect to the maximum loan available. I am mindful - I remind the Senate of this fact - that the Budget was designed to provide for a. domestic surplus of $630m. I do not think that another S10m, $12m or SI 5m made available to those who are entitled to the provision of what the Minister, in his ' second reading speech, described as a very valuable repatriation benefit - war service homes - would cause any difficulty. This is something that the Government could well afford, something that would be genuinely appreciated and, in my view, something that would not interfere in any way with the availability of finance to meet the many responsibilities that the Commonwealth Government has to the nation as a whole. I commend to the Minister and the Government our proposals, particularly that designed to increase the maximum loan from the proposed $9,000 to $15,000. 
 I direct my question to the Minister for Air. ls the F111C to be equipped with a laser beam delivery system for what is described as stand-off bombing? If the answer to my question is in the affirmative, I ask: Was this system incorporated in the original design of the aircraft ordered by the Government in 1963? If not, is it (a) one of the numerous modifications to the aircraft since 1968, or (b) is it an additional modification which will increase the cost of the aircraft over and above the last estimated cost of $US344m? 
I address my question to the Minister for Air. Do I correctly interpret the Minister's answer to my earlier question to mean that the Government has determined that the FI 1 1C will be equipped with the delivery system I referred to? Is it not a fact that the laser beam delivery system of stand-off bombing has been designed specifically for the delivery of atomic bombs? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many Australian servicemen served In South Vietnam between the commencement of Australian involvement there and 30th November 1971. 
How many of these servicemen were (a) members of the permanent forces and (b) national servicemen. 
I ask the Minister for Air: Is it a fact that the laser beam delivery system for stand-off bombing has been specifically designed for atomic bombs? If that is so, why is the Royal Australian Air Force carrying out an examination and why is the Department making an evaluation of this system when, in answer to my question yesterday, the Minister said: 'We do not intend to have a nuclear weapons capacity in our aircraft'? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service ask that Minister to have incorporated in the monthly statistical supplement on employment the same detail for the district employment offices in the metropolitan areas as is provided for the non-metropolitan districts? 
On behalf of the Opposition, I indicate at the outset that the Opposition proposes to facilitate the passage of this Bill through the 
Senate as expeditiously as possible. However, because of the importance of the provisions contained in this Bill, it is necessary to make some observations on it. I propose to offer some criticism of the current unemployment crisis and make some suggestions about its origin and what needs to be done to overcome it and to eliminate the possibility of a similar situation occurring in the future, I understand that the terms of an amendment I propose to move on behalf of the Opposition are in the process of being circulated.I repeat that the Opposition does not propose to impede the passage of this Bill. The Opposition adopts that attitude not because it believes that the proposed increases are adequate - they are far from adequate - but because it recognises the hardship and distress imposed on those affected by unemployment. Not only does unemployment degrade, demoralise and distress the sense of dignity of an individual during the period of his unemployment but it can also leave him wi'h a permanent scar - characterised by a loss of faith in himself and a loss of confidence and initiative - on his mind that may never be healed or erased. In other words, it can be a living nightmare to experience unemployment. 1 think it is appropriate to direct the Senate's attention on this occasion to the Hansard report of the debate on 16th September and 28lh September 1971 on the Social Services Bill (No. 2) 1971. The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  was responsible on that occasion also for the passage of the Bill through the Senate. Among other things, what the Opposition wanted the Senate to do - incidentally the Opposition received the support of the majority of the Senate on that occasion on these 3 aspects - was to express its opinion, firstly, that the increases proposed were inadequate; secondly, that the social service payments generally were inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living; and, thirdly, that steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty. The Opposi'ion moved an amendment in those terms notwithstanding the fact that there was a Bill before the Senate to increase social service payments generally. The Opposition moved the amendment because it was shown statistically in the Budget Papers that between the time when that Bill was introduced and the end of that fiscal year, as a consequence of the increase in the cost of living, the value of the increases in the benefits payable to recipients of social services would have been completely eroded. 1 will be referring later to this self-same subject matter. ] move: 
At cml of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that the vast majority of those currently unemployed have become unemployed as :: direct result of Government economic policies and accordingly directs the Government to prepare a Bill for presentation to the Parliament within 14 days which provides for unemployment benefits not below the updated poverty level established by the1966 survey of the University of Melbourne's Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research'. 
I propose to deal with this amendment in 2 parts because it is in fact in 2 parts. First of all it directs the attention of this chamber to the cause of the crisis affecting some 130,000-odd good Australians at the present moment. We say without any hesitation that the strategy of the 1971-72 Budget was deliberately calculated and designed to bring about this very situation. The official Opposition levelled criticism at the Government for its Budget and, among other things, we were particularly critical of the strategy which, as we saw it, inevitably would lead to a pool of unemployment. I draw to the attention of the Senate numerous observations made by individuals and organisations which agreed with our predictions. To simplify and expedite my reference to these observations by individuals and recognisable national organisations  1  propose to refer in parr to the extracts from my own speech on the Budget in which 1 point out quite vividly the mistakes being made by the Commonwealth Government. At page 744 of the Senate Hansard of 15th September 1971 - exactly 4 weeks and one day after the Budget had been introduced - I said: 
. the Melbourne 'Age' of 8th September 1971 carried an article under the heading 'fears of big credit squeeze'. The article is in these terms: 
Australian business yesterday expressed concern at the prospects of a severe credit squeeze later in the 1971-72 financial year. 
That statement was made by the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia. The article goes on: 
The chambers are the latest in a series of influential bodies to criticise the economic strategy of the Budget and to predict repercussions. 
The Austraiian industries Development Association last week claimed the Government soon would have to take action to reverse the depressive effects of the Budget. 
I remind the Senate that this was at a time when our discussion of the Budget had not been completed. The article continued: 
This week, a leading management consultation firm, W. D. Scott and Co., predicted that the Australian economy was heading for its worst unemployment situation since the 1961-63 recession.  1 think it is worth while reminding the Senate of these observations which were made by people outside this chamber but which were related to the Senate by honourable senators. In the 'Australian' of Friday, 10th September 1971, there appeared a large banner headline reading  '100pc  drop in new money for industry' with a sub-heading 'figures show economy is running down fast'. As I remarked in my speech on the Budget, the article stated, among other things: 
The rise in the rate of capital spending in Australia is expected to drop by more than 100 per cent in the 6 months ending in December  . . A survey by the Bank of New South Wales and the Associated Chambers of Manufactures said that only 38 per cent of manufactures are operating at a satisfactory full rate of operation. 
My speech continued: 
That means that 62 per cent of our industrial capacity is under-utilised at the present time. The article goes on: 
This is the slowest anticipated growth rate in capital spending for 3 years. The survey of anticipated expenditure is probably on the optimistic side because it was taken in July before the Budget was brought down and before the international currency crisis. 
Our economist, Kenneth Davidson, says: 'So far most of the statistical evidence which has emerged since the Budget has pointed to a sleeper downturn in the business circle than the Government expected. This is likely to show up in an even higher level of unemployment than the Government had planned as a result of the deflationary Budget'. 
There was much more and I think it is important that the Senate should be informed of it. In the 14th September issue of the 'Financial Review', which is a publication of some standing, as Government supporters would concede, an article stated: 
Unemployment is growing at the monthly rate of 6.6 per cent after allowing for seasonal factors. This is from a low base but it is a high rate of increase despite that. 
Registered vacancies are falling at the monthly rate of 4.2 per cent. 
The movement in personal consumption - the biggest single item in gross national expenditure - graphs out a plunging route. 
In the March quarter of 1970 real personal consumption was growing at the annual rate of 4.8 per cent. 
In the June quarter of 1970 this had started to fade and the rate of real growth was 4.2 per cent. Then in September 1970 it was 4.1 per cent; in the December quarter, 2.8 per cent; the March quarter, 2.2 per cent; and the June quarter 1971 saw a real rate of increase of only 1 .6 par cent. 
The figures covering the real rate of growth in gross national expenditure are just as disconcerting. 
They show that in the June quarter the real annual rate of growth was only 0.7 per cent. 
This figure has to be set against the March rate of increase of 5.4 per cent. But it remains a figure that no amount of interpretation will support the proposition that demand was accelerating in the June quarter - just the reverse. 
A real annual rate of growth of 0.7 per cent means that demand was in fact not keeping pace with population growth. 
Comments were made, also by 2 other gentlemen who are well known in the community. The first was  Mr Blyton, President  of the Associated Chambers of Commerce, who was supported by  Mr Herford,  the Federal  President  of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia.  Mr Blyton  said, among other things: 
The figures are a further indication that the level of economic activity is continuing to ease. 
It seems that now is the right time for the Government to inject some renewed life into the economy. 
In other words, at that time while the Budget was still in the process of being dealt with by the national Parliament, every responsible individual and organisation, including the Australian Council of Trade Unions - or at least a great range of people and organisations - was critical of the Budget. There was a whole range of people and organisations that I could cite to augment the list that I have mentioned to the Senate. No responsible national organisation, whether engaged in an economic activity or otherwise involved in 'he community, had other than criticism of the Budget. They all pointed out the inevitable consequences which would and did follow. I remind the Senate again that my reference to the Budget was to point out that primarily its strategy was to dampen down what was referred to as 'demand'. This is stated clearly in the Budget Speech of the 
Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  at page 3 of the document which was presented to the national Parliament. I propose to refer to it only briefly. He said: 
Therefore it is essential to achieve the right rate of increase in demand through the year. It must be high enough to make possible full employment of the labour available - new labour as well as existing labour. At the same time it must not be so high as to facilitate and encourage further cost and price increases. Since, as I have said, demand has been running too high in some sectors- 
This was completely contrary to the view of the interested organisations and individuals to whom I have referred -  this indicates the need for a degree of restraint on demand. One obvious direction in which restraint should be applied is that of public authority spending in its various forms. 
It is interesting to note that even a former member of the Government, a former Prime Minister, the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  since the Budget was introduced has joined its critics and those who at the time of the Budget were saying what he is now saying. The Melbourne 'Sun' of 18th February 1972 contains a report of an address by  Mr Gorton  to the University of New South Wales Graduates' Club, in the course of which it states: 
He said the Federal Treasurer had tried to attack inflation the wrong way by increasing interest rates and 'taking money out of the pockets of the people'. lt was ridiculous to say that demand was causing inflation,  Mr Gorton  said. 'If you take that approach you are like a doctor who neglects one disease and treats a disease which does not exist', he said. 
In very succinct terms  Mr Gorton  has pointed out precisely the cause of the current crisis with which we are now confronted and as a result of which we. are asked to consider a Bill, the purpose of which is to alleviate some of the distress of those who are suffering hardship today. I am always prepared to give credit where it is due. I have said so on many occasions. I am prepared to give credit even if it is only for the evil that is to come. I think it can be said that the strategy, intention and design of the Budget introduced last August by the Commonwealth Treasurer, and which was supported quite obviously by Government members, was to dampen down demand. There is only one way in which this can be done and that is by creating a pool of unemployment, thus changing the demand for labour by employers to a demand by the employees for labour. I think it can be said that the results of the Budget have been disastrously successful. 
What is the real effect on the Budget? To really see the dramatic effects that that Budget has had one needs to look at the statistics showing the unemployment position. I will refer to the figures for only 2 months, namely August 1971, when the Budget was being debated, and January 1972, 5 months later. The figures at the end of August 1971 revealed an acceleration of unemployment and a decline in the number of jobs available. There were 61,848 persons registered as unemployed in August, which was 14,591 more than the number for the same month in the previous year. But then an adjustment is made to the figures on the basis of seasonal variations. It is stated that the figure for that month really should show that there were 75,500 people unemployed and that there were 34,673 vacancies. This means that during the time that we were debating the Budget, when the Government was being advised and warned by all sections of the community, there were 2 people seeking every job available. 
I have said before, and I repeat it because I think it is true, that for every person who goes to the trouble of registering with the Commonwealth Employment Service there is probably at least one other who feels that he is confident of finding a job without resorting to the services of that office. If that theory has any substance or validity it means that the figures produced by the Department of Labour and National Service do not represent the true position. I do not question the accuracy of the Department's figures but I do not think they truly reflect the true level of unemployment. In other words, the figure of 61,848 for August 1971 should have been much higher. 
Notwithstanding the knowledge and information that the Government had about these figures and the trends that must clearly have been evident to it, it persisted, dogmatically and doggedly, with the 1971 Budget which has brought about the results predicted not only by the Australian Labor Party but also by many other interested parties. What do we find 5 months later, notwithstanding that we have been told by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in the intervening period that all wc need is to have confidence in ourselves? We of the Australian Labor Party and many other people outside this chamber were charged with being prophets of doom. It was said that we were attempting to talk this nation into a depression. Nothing is further from the truth. What we tried to point out to the Government was the inevitable consequences of its Budget before they happened. Each and every member of this chamber has a responsibility to point out such things to the people of Australia. 
I again ask: What do we find 5 months later, at the end of January 1972? We find that there are no fewer than 130,233 people unemployed. That represents more than a 100 per cent increase on the figure for August 1971. 
 I want to enlarge upon these figures a little. The supplementary statistics that usually are available with the monthly employment review are not available at this stage. I presume that the figures I propose to use are accurate within reason, because I have taken them from the 'Australian' of 15 th February 1972. They appear under the heading 'Jobless total up by 10,000*. I propose to refer only briefly to this article which says: 
Unemployment  rose last month- 
That is January 1972 -  by almost 10,000 to 130,233. 
If the honourable senator who interjected is prepared to listen to my reply- 
I am referring to last year. There has been an increase of 41,000 in a year. The article goes on to point out that job vacancies declined in January by 2,510 to 42,860. Three points must be made. Firstly, the unemployment level increased dramatically and drastically. Secondly, the increase in unemployment over the previous month of 10,000 was astronomical. Thirdly, the increase of 41,000 in one year can be described only in the same manner as I described the increase of 10,000. Job vacancies have fallen to such an extent that instead of 2 people competing for every job available, as was the case last August, now there are 3. This is just about the level that the Commonwealth Government sought in order to disable the trade union movement in its just fight to obtain decent conditions of work and rates of pay for the people it represents. I think the Government can take credit for achieving its desired result. 
I shall refer only briefly to the second reading speech because so much in it does not warrant even cursory comment. It indicates that the rate for an adult unemployed male will be increased from $10 to $17 a week and that the rate for an unmarried person aged 18 to 20 years will rise by $5, from $6 to $1 1 a week. It goes on to say that the rate for unmarried persons aged from 16 to 17 years will rise by S3, from $4.50 to $7.50 a week. That reminds us of the increases that flowed from the Budget which has been so disastrous. The second reading speech goes on to say, amongst other things: 
The rates of unemployment and associated benefits are now higher than ever before, both in money terms and in terms of real purchasing power. The measure of the improvement during the time since the last Labor administration lost office is dramatic. The figures are as follows: 
A table is then set out. I have not had the opportunity since the Bill was introduced to analyse thoroughly the figures in that table but I question their validity. In the course of the debate on the Social Services Bill (No. 2) 1971, to which I referred earlier, we of the Opposition were able to show quite conclusively that the value of all social service payments, including child endowment, since 1949 and up to the increases in the recent Budget had fallen far below the 1949 level. I fail to appreciate that the increases, substantial as they may appear to be, would have the effect of offsetting the great discrepancy shown to exist between the average weekly wage in 1949 and the average weekly wage at the time of the last Budget in August 1971. To support my view - and I think it does  -  I shall refer briefly to a publication which I presume most if not all honourable senators and members of the other place receive gratus as I do. It is a publication which has some worth. It is called 'IPA Facts'. It is a publication of the Institute of Public Affairs. This is volume 21, No. 1 and it is dated December 1971 -January 1972 so it is quite current. On page 4 of that publication reference is made to inflation. A graph-like table is set out showing the fall in value of the Si. The base year of 1950 is taken as being 100c in the $1. This table progresses right through the years to 1971 when it is shown that the value of the $1 in terms of purchasing power has fallen to no less an amount, than 42c. If one takes into account the magnanimous decision of the Government to attempt to alleviate some of the hardship which has been caused by its own action and the increase in the adult male rate of from $10 to $17 a week, in effect it means that the real purchasing value of that $17 is no greater than $7.1 4c. This increase is not as handsome as we are led to believe by the second reading speech. Further, I make a passing reference to the estimated total cost of this increase which amounts to $4m. This is only a pittance when one thinks in terms of the Budget of over $8,000m and of the fact that by deliberate calculation the Budget was designed to provide for a domestic surplus of no less than $63 Om. At one and the same time the Government increased the taxation burden on everybody across the board. Whether they be income earners - whatever bracket they may be in - whether they be on fixed incomes such as retired persons on superannuation or whether they be recipients of social services or repatriation benefits the Government imposed a further tax burden on them of some $157m as a minimum. I do not think it can be said that the Government has been particularly gracious by handing out this form of increase of some $4 in the dole payment to people who are unfortunately displaced from employment. I want to refer to a matter in the second reading speech because I think there are some references which are entitled to attract some comment. The second reading speech states: 

 Mr President, it is understandable that attention  is  currently focussed primarily on the unemployed and on unemployment benefits. The number unemployed is at present abnormally high for Australia, although it would still be considered abnormally low in most other countries. It is, in fact, 2.3 per cent of the work force, which might be compared with the latest available figure of 5.4 per cent in the United States of America and 4 per cent in the United Kingdom. 
Our Australian average unemployment over the past 6 years has been about 1.2 per cent, which must bc considered as a most excellent performance by international standards. 
I cannot imagine how any one of the 130,233 unemployed in Australia would derive any great comfort from the fact that the Government is trying to placate its conscience because of a decision which it made back in August which brought about, the crisis which we now find on the Australian labour market. I now direct the attention of the Senate to the second part of our amendment which states: but the Senate . . . accordingly directs the Government to prepare a Bill for presentation to the Parliament within 14 days which provides for unemployment benefits not below the updated poverty level established by the 1966 survey of the University of Melbourne's Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. 
Why do we suggest that? Among others, one reason we suggest it is that the figure which has been recently set by the University of Melbourne's Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research as a poverty line is $50 a week. How do these new increases - the so called benefits - compare with the poverty Vine which has been set by that Institute? If we take as an example a man, his wife and 2 children we find that they are entitled to a maximum benefit of $35.50 a week. This is made up of $17 for the male, $8 for the wife, $4.50 each for the children and SI. 50 endowment for the children which comprises 50c for the first child and $1 for the second child. This means that the sum total benefit - 1 use that term with some reservation - for being unemployed is $35.50 which is $14.50 less than the/ poverty line which has been described by a responsible part of an institution, namely the University of Melbourne. What happens to a man and his wife? This situation could affect many thousand young newly-weds who are making their way with all that that means. They would be entitled to the handsome amount of precisely $25 a week which is 50 per cent less than the poverty line described by the institution to which I recently referred. I cannot imagine how anyone can believe that people - particularly those who are married - could ever meet their commitments with an income such as this. lt is all right for honourable senators sitting on the other side of the chamber to smirk and smile and interject facetiously but I ask them to think for a moment. How would they like to be confronted next week with a wage packet of $35.50 and have to meet all the commitments which, by and large, other people in the community have to meet - those who have family commitments, those who are making their way as newly weds, or those who are not married but who are hoping and intending lo wed and who are trying to put aside the wherewithal to reach that stage? One still has lo meet one's commitment of rent. One still has to feed oneself and one's family and clothe them. One still has to meet the charge of local rates, taxes, surcharges and indirect charges which are imposed through various instrumentalities apart from the Government, ls is deplorable and despicable to think that an Australian Government would inflict such distress and hardship on people in the com.munity. 1 am not being emotional abou this situaion. In fact, I am being very cold, calm and calculating, as the Government has been in bringing about this situation. 
I say again that this Government should be prepared to review the situation in terms of our amendment, to prepare a Bill for presentation to the Parliament within  14  days and to increase the level of payments to those who are dispossessed of an income through no fault of their own  - 1  repeat, through no fault of their own - those who are displaced from employment and those who are relying on social services by way of sickness benefits. I say that as a matter of humanity to those the Government purports to hold so dear as part of this nation of Australia it should be prepared seriously to consider meeting the terms of our proposal to bring back a Bill to this Parliament within  14  days which will upgrade the standard of income available to those who are suffering hardship and distress at this moment. This will allow them to live with a sense of dignity - and this is terrifically important. It will sustain their confidence, and give them some element of initiative and some sense of desire to go on after this morass, which has been created by this Government, has passed. 
Complementary to that  1  say that in our view these proposals cannot be described as other than short term measures. The only real answer to unemployment is a Government wilh a policy which goes further than the mouthing of platitudes by Government supporters. It should be one which is genuinely dedicated and committed to full employment. Our amendment asks that the Government, as a matter of urgency and as a matter of necessity, examine through all of the resources that il has at its disposal - they are unlimited - the present situation to find' the ways and means and the wherewithal, which are available because Australia is not a poor nation, to establish an order of priorities and deploy its resources lo revive our flagging economy, to stimulate it and to eliminate unemployment for all time. I commend this Bill to the Senate. I do so with the most sincere and earnest convict ions. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, although it could be addressed to him in his  capacity  as Minister representing the Prime Minister, ls the Minister aware of a document prepared by a  Mr Marc  Acheson, who was a top executive with a merchant bank, which discloses that the asse s of various overseas banks represented in Australia total more than S500,000m, which he says is 80 times the size of the total assets of the local banking system and about 5 times the cumulative Australian gross national expenditure in the last 4 years? Will the Minister, as a matter of urgency, take steps to ascertain the accuracy of  Mr Acheson s  report and inform the Parliament of his findings? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIf the honourable senator will put the question on notice I shall refer it to the Prime Minister's Department. The honourable senator mentioned assets. I would not know what implications assets would have in the scheme of things. If the question is put on no ice 1 shall get an answer for the honourable senator. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport follows the question just asked by  Senator Young.  I understand that the Minister has taken certain action in respect of the oil threatening the Victorian coast which, according to the State Minister for Public Works, was deliberately discharged from a tanker. Of course, this is not an isolated incident. I ask the Minister: Was there an agreement in principle at the April meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers to 'provide uniform powers to combat this sort of problem'? If there was. will the Minister as a matter of urgency institute measures to achieve this desirable objective? 
My question, I believe, is correctly directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, but if I am wrong I ask him to correct me. I understand that there was a conference recently of State Ministers for Transport and the Commonwealth Minister for Shipping and Transport at which it was agreed, among other things, to recommend the adoption of safety design rules for the manufacture and use of passenger car tyres. Is the Minister aware that some Commonwealth cars are fitted with tyres which have been recapped and have a tendency to peel off, as I witnessed recently in Melbourne? As a lead to the rest of the community, will the Minister ensure that all Commonwealth vehicles are checked for tyre safety and that all vehicles are fitted with only specified tyres which match their performance? 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Has the laser beam delivery system for stand-off bombing been specifically designed for the delivery of atomic bombs. 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Is the F111C aircraft to be equipped witha laser beam delivery system for stand-off bombing; if so, was this system incorporated in the design of the aircraft ordered by the Government in 1963;  If  not,is the system  (a)  one  of  the numerous modifications to the aircraft since 1968,  or  (b) an additional modification which will increase the cost of the aircraft over and above the last estimate of $US344m. 
I am gravely concerned at what 1 have learned in the last 12 hours of the methods employed by the Commonwealth Police in arresting a young man named Robert Adrian Bissett. The young man to whom I refer was a draft resister, not a draft dodger or a draft evader. 'Draft dodger' is the terminology used so generally and loosely by Government Ministers and members. I stress that Robert Bissett is a draft resister, not a draft dodger. Let me say here and now that the distinction is neither technical nor subtle; but substantially the 2 are totally different. 1 emphasise this point because it has a significant bearing on the recent and only recent method adopted by the Commonwealth Police, no doubt acting on instructions, to invoke section 8a of the Crimes Act. I can presume only that the Commonwealth Police did invoke section 8a. Section 8a of the Crimes Act 1914-1966  states: 
Any constable may. without warrant, arrest any person, if the constable has reasonable grounds to believe: 
that the person has committed an offence against the law of the Commonwealth; and 
that proceedings against the person by summons would not be effective. 
I must confess that I can assume only that this section was at least relied on because, at the hearing for bail, the magistrate cleared the court of the public and allowed only the Commonwealth Police, the Crown Prosecutor, the defence lawyer and  Mr Bissett  to be present in court. In reply to a defence submission that the arrest had been illegal as there was no summons or warrant, the magistrate,  Mr Cuthill  C.S.M., said: 
I am not interested in how he is brought before this court. 
I remind the Senate that this hearing was in camera. As I understand it, in the ordinary course of events - this has been the position until this recent incident - if a person was believed by authorities to be in breach of a section of the National Service Act a summons would be issued for the person to appear to answer the charge. If the individual failed to answer the summons a warrant would be issued for the arrest of that person. Why then has the Crimes Act been used in this case? I can only assume that it has been used. I repeat that section 8a of the Crimes Act states, among other things, that a constable may, without a warrant, arrest any person if the constable has reasonable grounds to believe that the proceedings against a person by summons would not be effective. 
 We are not quite sure of that at this stage. However I think it is essential that I should relate the history of Robert Adrian Bissett because I cannot for the life of me see that the action that has been taken by the Commonwealth Police is justified. The address of this young man is Flat 2, 8 Kelvinside Road, Noble Park, Victoria.  His  telephone number is 5461036. He is aged 22 years. He was born on 28th December 1949. He has lived at the above address since 22nd January 1971, that is, for over 12 months. He is a State public servant employed by the Housing Commission of Victoria, and while he has not been incarcerated as a consequence of his political beliefs and consciencious objection to the National Service Act, he has been working continuously in that Department. He states: 
I was required to register between 21st July 1969 and 4th August 1969. Instead of registering I sent a letter to the Department of Labour and National Service, a copy of which is attached. 
The letter he sent on 27th July 1962  to  both the then Minister,  Mr Bury,  and the Secretary of the Department reads as follows- 
 This hearing was held in camera. We are not sure what is happening. The person is on bail at the present moment. 
 I want to ascertain from the Attorney-General in due course information about the conduct of the police and the way in which this man was arrested, which was quite contrary to the norm in the ordinary course of the administration of the law. 
Consequent upon the comment that has been made by the Leader of the Government I will make further inquiries. I ask for leave to continue my remarks in due course. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - rs leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware of a reported statement by the Commonwealth Police Commissioner,  Mr Jack  Davis, that a stipendiary magistrate refused to issue a warrant but told police that they had ample powers to arrest an offender? If the reported statement is true, will the Minister ascertain who the magistrate is and the grounds upon which he refused to issue a warrant and inform the Senate at the earliest opportunity? I also ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is it now intended that the normal procedures of summons and warrant are to be bypassed for the use of the Crimes Act against people alleged to be in breach of the National Service Act? 
The matter with which 1 propose to deal concerns the payment, or rather the nonpayment, of unemployment benefits. I am sure that, honourable senators will recall that some weeks ago there was a protracted industrial dispute in my home State of Victoria and, from memory, I think the dispute ended on 15th February, because it was on that day that the Minister for Social Services (Mt Wentworth) issued a Press statement of which I have a copy. I obtained the copy this evening from the Parliamentary Library and I propose to quote only three or four paragraphs of this very extensive statement by the Minister with respect to this subject matter. Among other things, the Minister said: 
Payment of unemployment benefit to members of unions participating in the State Electricity Commission strike was refused in accordance with the procedures laid down under the Labor Government on the instructions of  Mr Chifley, Dr 
Evatt and  Senator McKenna.  These procedures have not been varied since the time they were first determined. 
The Minister went on to say: 
Nov.' that the State Electricity Commission strike has ended it will be possible to pay unemployment benefit without this restriction. 
He further said: 
Those who registered between the 1st and the 8th February will of course be eligible for Unemployment Benefit as from 15th February if they are still unemployed, but whether they are paid benefit for the period between 8th and 15th February 
That was approximately the duration of the dispute- will depend upon whether they lost their employment because of the strike and belonged to one of the unions sponsoring it. 
He went on to say finally: 
It will be appreciated that the heavy unemployment caused to other workers by the State Electricity Commission strike has put an inordinate toad of work on to the Department, but f have given instructions that delays in determining eligibility for unemployment benefit in respect of the period between the 8th and 15th February should be reduced to the absolute minimum. 
I think any reasonable person would have, interpreted that statement by the Minister o have been an instruction or, if you like, a ruling directed to officers of the various district branches of the Commonwealth Employment Office to begin to assess the entitlements of those who have lodged claims during that period of the industrial dispute in Victoria for the purpose of processing those claims and making payment accordingly. But I find that in an address in another place last Thursday night, 2nd March 1972 - his remarks are recorded at page 563 of Hansard - a colleague of mine raised this matter again with the Minister. He said: 
I intended to raise this matter last Thursday, during the debate on unemployment benefits, but in order to save time I discussed the matter with the Minister and officers of the Department. I was informed that a ruling had been made that day and that it would be in transit to the Melbourne office of the Department of Social Services that afternoon. 
I remind the Senate and the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Social Services, that the statement I first read was issued as a Press statement by the Minister for Social Services on 15th February. The extract I have just quoted from Hansard indicates that the Minister had decided to issue an instruction on 24th February, exactly 9 days later. I thank my colleague, the honourable member for Corio,  Mr Scholes,  for the information he supplied to me this evening in order to bring to the notice of the Senate the fact that whatever instructions have been issued, if they have been issued, they certainly have  not  been able to traverse the pipeline between Canberra and the Geelong office of the Commonwealth Employment Office. My colleague informed me this evening that he communicated with an officer at the Geelong office and was informed that approximately 5,000 people had registered for employment with that branch and that of thos? 5,000 between 2,000 and 3,000 had lodged applications for unemployment benefit. But the Geelong office was unable to process those applications because  it  had no clear instructions as to precisely how they were to be processed. 
I do  not  think I need delay the Senate unduly by canvassing  the  hardship of the individual who is affected by unemployment. He suffers hardship not only during the course of that unemployment but also post unemployment, because it can take very many months and in fact years before what he has lost during his unemployment  is  made up.  f  think the Minister will agree that this undue delay simply aggravates that hardship and the distress these people experience during the course of unemployment. I cannot say precisely what is the position in the metropolitan area but if the state of affairs in the Geelong district is any indication and  it  has an application to the metropolitan area, then the number of people being deprived of a payment to which they are absolutely entitled at the present moment would be astronomical in the metropolitan area. I. frankly do not believe that this situation can be tolerated. I ask the Minister to inform the Senate whether instructions have been issued, whether those instructions in. fact have been acted upon, and by what means they are being acted upon. I ask the Minister to treat this matter as urgent because 1 am sure he will agree, as will every  honourable  senator in this place, that it is a matter which requires immediate attention in order to provide entitlements to those people who have lodged claims for unemployment benefit. Although their claims may have been lodged as far back as a month, they still have not received any payment to date. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is it a fact that notwithstanding recent negotiations between the Australian Government and major Asian exporters to Australia of textile and clothing goods, for voluntary restraint, imports from these countries are accelerating? Does the Minister realise that the Australian textile and clothing industries will be threatened with massive unemployment unless immediate and decisive action is taken to protect them? Is he aware that in Victoria alone at least 6 major country towns are facing economic disaster unless urgent measures are taken to sustain these decentralised industries? 
On Thursday, 9th March - the last day we met - I raised a matter of importance. As I stated at the time, it related to the nonpayment of the unemployment benefit to people in a certain category in the State of Victoria. These were people whose applications during the protracted industrial dispute in the power generating industry were stood over until such times as a ruling had been given through the appropriate channels for the officers in the district employment bureaus to process their applications for unemployment benefit and accordingly to make the payment. That is the only explanation I can see. I was rebuked on that occasion by  Senator Greenwood,  as Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, on 2 counts: Firstly, because of the lateness of the hour and, secondly, because I had not previously informed him of the details of the matter I wished to raise in the adjournment debate. 
I want to remind the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services that this matter had been raised, or at least had been adverted to quite specifically, on 3 occasions. I remind him that the first was on the day the power strike in Victoria ceased. I believe that was 15th February. On that day an extensive Press statement was issued by the Minister for Social Services,  Mr Wentworth.  I said in my remarks in the adjournment debate on 9th March that any reasonable person would have interpreted that statement as an instruction or at least a guide to the appropriate officers to set about the task of processing these applications which fell within the category of applications made during the duration of the industrial dispute. Subsequently I found that on 24th February - 9 days later - a colleague of mine in another place,  Mr Scholes,  the honourable member for Corio, who was concerned about the state of affairs in his electorate, discussed the matter with the Minister for Social Services and officers of the Department of Social Services. He was informed on that day - 24th February - that an instruction was being sent to the appropriate officers in Melbourne so that the claims could begin to be processed. Seven days later  Mr Scholes  had occasion to raise the matter in the adjournment debate in the House of Representatives. Seven days later again - on 9th March  -  I raised the matter in this place. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, in his reply to my submissions, said, among other things, as reported at page 685 of Hansard: 
With all that, I shall convey what the honourable senator has said to the Minister. I am sure the Minister will give the honourable senator the information which, as I said earlier, if he had approached the Minister directly would have been given to him immediately. 
Now, 11 days later, I have not received from the Minister for Social Services any reply or indication of precisely - what the reply to my remarks on 9th March is. But in the intervening period I have taken the liberty and the opportunity to do some sample tests in the State of  Victoria  to ascertain precisely what is happening in the Department of Social Services in respect of the processing of the claims of those persons who lodged applications for unemployment benefit during the course of the industrial dispute. I find that letters have been sent out. They seem to me to be uniform replies to the persons who lodged applications sent out 2 days after the matter was raised by me in the Senate on 9th March. Ail the letters I have seen, all the information I have received from people who are awaiting determination of their applications for unemployment benefit and the various conversations I have had with officers in district employment bureaus would indicate that on 11th March - incidentally, an unusual day for officers of the Department of Social Services to be working, because it was a Saturday - notices were sent to the people to whom I have referred. The following is a sample - dated 11th March 1972: 
Dear  Sir, 
To determine your eligibility for  Unemployment  Benefit under the Social Services Act in respect of the claim you lodged during the recent Victorian power dispute, it will be necessary to know the name of the Trade Union or Association (if any) to which you belong. 
Would you therefore, please answer the questions listed below and return this form as soon, as possible. An addressed envelope which does not require a postage stamp is enclosed for this purpose. 
Yours faithfully, A. R. KOPP Director 
Then there is a little questionnaire. Question 1 reads: 
Were you a member of a Trade Union or Association on 2nd February 1972? 
There is provision for an answer alongside that question. Question 2 reads: 
If so, state which. 
That must mean the name of the trade union or association, if the person belonged to one. There is provision for an answer, and then there is provision for the signature and the date. The person concerned is to provide that information. That would indicate to me that the criticisms that have been made by the honourable member for Corio and myself are justified. It would appear that there was not simply a blockage in the pipeline after the issuing of the instructions or guidance to the officers in the various district employment bureaus or that no instructions at all had been issued. It would appear that now, 3 weeks and 4 days after the actual end of the dispute and after the making of the Press statement by the Minister for Social Services, this information is being sought. It will take some time for it to be returned to the Department of Social Services. This will further delay the processing of these applications and the determination of whether these people are eligible for unemployment benefit. 
Let me say to  Senator Greenwood  in passing that I did not argue about the terms of the statement that was issued by the Minister for Social Services. I am not saying that they are not arguable; but I was not arguing about them or about the instuctions, as one might have taken them to be. I was simply saying that obviously this information had not been conveyed to or had not been acted upon by the appropriate officers of the Department. In addition to the references I have made, I have received a communication from a  Mr W.  R. Reay of 12 Elaine Court, Springvale, Victoria. He is another person who was stood down on 1st February. He applied to the Springvale district employment bureau for employment. On 9th February he lodged an application for unemployment benefit with that bureau. I am informaed that that application was forwarded to the Dandenong registrar of social services. Evidently it was subsequently referred from the Dandenong registrar of social services to the central office on the corner of La Trobe and Spring Streets, Melbourne - the building known as the Commonwealth Centre. 
I remind the Senate that  Mr Reay  regis tered on 2nd February, the day after he was stood down. He filled in the appropriate forms and lodged them on 9th February. Then he received a letter dated 11th March - a Saturday - which incidentally is the date of the letter to which I have just referred as a sample of the letters seeking information. The letter read as follows: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Did a recent conference of Commonwealth and State Transport Ministers recommend the adoption of safety design rules for the construction and the use of passenger car tyres; if so, (a) is the Minister aware that some Commonwealth cars are fitted with recapped tyres which have a tendency to peel off, and (b) will the Minister ensure that all Commonwealth vehicles are checked for tyre safety and fitted with tyres which match their performances, so giving a lead to the rest of the community. 
I commend the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  for having brought  the  debate back to the subject matter that is before the Committee at the moment. As I understand it we are dealing with standing order 390. It would seem to me that paragraphs 23 and 24 of the report are simply an expression of the Standing Orders Committee of the subject matters that were exercising the minds of its members. Paragraph 25 of the report contains the recommendation to this Committee, which is:  . . (he Standing Orders Committee recommends to the Senate that the scope of the reference to the Privileges Committee be enlarged to include a consideration of the general question of provision for protective procedures where individual interests are under inquiry. 
I welcome this report and its recommendations. I have been uneasy about evidence that has been presented to the Committee of which I am privileged to be a member, that is, the Legislative Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. I have been uneasy about the evidence presented to that Committee in camera. I have never been thoroughly satisfied that a witness who asked to have his evidence taken in camera could be thoroughly confident that that evidence which is confidential may not become the subject of consideration by the Senate. I was reasonably confident in some respects that the members of the Senate Committee on the first hand would respect that confidence and, secondly, I would anticipate that the Senate would likewise respect the opinion of the Senate Committee that had accepted the evidence given in camera. But no clear indication has been given by anybody at this stage that in fact evidence given in camera may not be subject to some inquiry because it can be said that the recommendations that may emanate from a Senate committee based on evidence given in camera could very well be substantial recommendations in a report to the Senate and the Senate would be entitled to ask why the Senate committee made those recommendations. Obviously we would be sensitive as to the nature of the evidence upon which we were relying to present the report to the Senate. 
I notice that my Leader,  Senator Murphy,  seems to be questioning the wisdom of what I am saying. But I think that this is a matter that ought to claim the attention of this chamber. I think that there should be a guarantee beyond all doubt of the protection to a witness who gives evidence in camera before a legislative standing committee. If I am misinterpreting the procedures - I do not believe that I am because I am not the only member of this Standing Committee who has registered some concern at our inability to get a clear understanding from a source which would make us all feel easy in our minds that we could proceed in the fashion that we had adopted without jeopardising a witness who had asked that his evidence be treated in confidence - I would welcome some advice on this matter in the course of this debate to clarify it in the event that I have been misled or if I am, at this stage, quite unwittingly misleading honourable senators. 
I believe my question is appropriately directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is important that I make a brief preamble. As it would appear that a serious international dispute may eventuate over the status of the Strait of Malacca, and having regard to the importance to our nation of free and unimpeded waterways for the transport of Australian export produce in the most expeditious and economic way possible, I ask: What steps have been taken or are being taken by the Government to have this critically important matter clarified? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That they have an objection to the continual selective conscription of 20-year olds, and call on the Government to abandon the National Service Act. 
That they call on the Government to raise the standards and conditions of service in the Armed Forces to a professional status with guaranteed security for the serviceman and his family during and after his service. 
Your petitioners view with grave concern the use of the Crimes Act to apprehend those who have failed to comply with the requirement of the National Service Act. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service if I can claim his attention. 
The Attorney-General may be able to contribute to the answer and this will become clear during the course of my question to the Minister. Is it a fact that Paul Fox, who was sentenced to 18 months gaol on 3rd March 1972 for allegedly failing to comply with the requirements of the National Service Act, applied on 3rd March 1972 to the Department of Labour and National Service for an exemption on the grounds that he was a conscientious objector? Is it also a fact that the Department of Labour, and National Service did not acknowledge receipt of the application until 6th April 1972 and advised  Mr Fox's  lawyer that the matter had been referred for legal advice? ls it also a fact that 2 letters which Paul Fox's lawyer has written to the Department asking for a speedy hearing have not. been acknowledged by it? I ask him why there has been such an inordinate delay in fixing a date for a hearing to enable the application by Paul Fox to be tested by a court of summary jurisdiction in accordance with the provisions of section 29b. of the National Service Act? Finally, will the Minister, without further delay, comply with the mandatory provisions of section 29b. (1.) of the National Service Act and fix a date forthwith for the hearing? 
I inform  Senator Durack,  who has just completed his speech, that the Labor Party has made its position perfectly clear.  Senator Bishop,  who led for the Opposition in this debate, plainly put what we suggest should be done. We have said that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted after consultation and negotiation with the organisations which will be directly affected. An undertaking to have such consultation and negotiation was given by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  but was never honoured. Before the Senate adjourns for dinner I wish to refer briefly to some comments of  Senator Little.  In his meandering he cited very deliberately the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union as one of a number of organisations generally involved in this Public Service. From there he ranged through hotels and motels to finish up on the university campus. It seemed to me that the university campus did not have much relevance to the subject matter of this Bill. 
After listening to  Senator Little  last Thursday evening when this Bill was previously before the Senate I thought that as a matter of courtesy I should at least read his speech to ascertain precisely why he announced at its beginning that the Australian Democratic Labor Party proposes to support his Bill. I confess that reading his speech was a tedious experience, but I set myself the task because I felt it to be my obligation. I found no real substance in anything  Senator Little  said in support of this Bill. For example, I refer to page 1129 of the Senate Hansard of 13th April where the following opening remarks of  Senator Little  are reported: 
I indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the Bill before the House. In saying that, 1 suggest that this Bill will not settle, and is not designed to settle, disputes but to intercede when disputes are in process for the purpose of protecting the public purse. Whether it will have that effect fully will not be known until the Bill is in effect and has been tested. 
He then set out some criticisms in the course of which he referred, to use his term, to Comrade Slater. In answer to an interjection by  Senator Bishop  he said: 
I said at the outset that I am not sure that this is the proper way, the right way or the only way to go about this. 
On page 1131 of Hansard he went further and said: 
I know that it can be argued, perhaps with some truth, that the general industrial tenor of today has created some of those stoppages. 
He then went on to cite the case of the 4 technicians at the Redfern Mail Exchange. Of course, he implication right through his speech is that the nigger in the woodpile and the person responsible for the legislation before the Senate at this moment is none other than the general secretary of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union. But I want to make it clear to the Senate that the 4 persons who were involved in that dispute in September 1971 happened to be members of the Postal Telecommunications and Technicians Association of Australia, and the Postal Works Union, of which  Mr George  Slater is secretary, has no control over members of that Association. On page 1132 of Hansard  Senator Douglas  McClelland said by way of interjection: 
Was it a matter of safety that was involved? 

 Senator Little replied: 
I cannot answer the question. 
He said that he did not propose to do so. 
That is true. He went on to say: 
 I think that it is unreasonable to suggest that a stoppage of work was actually necessary to attain the ends that were required and that it is completely beyond the pale to suggest that it was  necessary to incur an enormous loss of public money in paying the rest of the employee who were doing nothing while those 4 technicians were on strike. 

 Senator Little then went on to say, believe it or not - this is extraordinary: 
This may be purely a matter of opinion. I have not condemned the stoppage itself. What 1 am condemning is the fact that it was used and took place in the manner in which it did . . . 
Honestly, this sort or statement amazes one. I am sure that those who studied '.he speech of  Senator Little  would say that it was a conglomeration of the greatest lot of balderdash that they have heard in this Senate. I have tried to ascertain the reason why the members of the DLP support this Bill, because the main spokesman on behalf of the DLP certainly has not shown the reason why its members do so. The Bill was introduced into the other House on 9th March and subsequently was introduced into the Senate on 13th April. We all recall the sordid display in that intervening period by members of this group who sit on the cross benches applying pressure to the Commonwealth Government to introduce new penal provisions and restrictive measures on the trade unions generally not only in this Bill but also in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The DLP was insisting that 2 of its members, who happened to be members of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society and the Sheet Metal Workers Union had been refused the right to challenge the amalgamation of the metal trade unions. What did we find? On 5th April a joint statement was issued by the Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Lynch,  and the Attorney-General,  Senator Ivor  J. Greenwood. The statement is headed Financial Assistance Under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act'. I will not read the complete statement, only part of it. It begins: 
The Minister for Labour and National Service, the  Hon.  Phillip Lynch, and the Attorney-General,  Senator the Hon  Ivor Greenwood, said today that it is proposed to move immediately to make additional provision for financial assistance to members of organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act who take proceedings in the Commonwealth Industrial Court to ensure membership control of the affairs of their organisations. 
The statement goes on to say: 
Since then applications for assistance by two members of unions- 
This is the important thing - involved in the current amalgamation of Metal Trades Unions have revealed some shortcomings in the existing provisions for financial assistance in Industrial Court proceedings. The Deputy Industrial Registrar who considered these applications was of the view that the existing Regulations did not authorise the granting of financial assistance in these particular cases. 
The statement continues: 
The Government believes that the existing provisions should be extended to enable financial assistance to be given. . . . 
The proposed new provisions would be concerned with the position where a member of the organisation had, whether before or after the entry into force of the new provisions- 
In other words, the new provisions would be made retrospective, and this was due to pressure on the Government to which  Senator Little  has referred as being gutless, and I agree 100 per cent with that-  . . to obtain an order nisi from the Industrial Court and would suffer if he were required to bear the cost of the proceedings himself. 1 wonder whether this may have been the reason why the DLP initially took the stance publicly of opposing any amendments to either the Conciliation and Arbitration Act or this Bill and now has decided, as a consequence of the concession that has been made to it by the Government, to support this Bill. This situation was highlighted by numerous articles appearing in the newspapers. I had this thought only today after reading an article in today's Melbourne 'Age' which describes an attack on the Democratic Labor Party by the former secretary to  Mr Gordon  Freeth, a former member for Forrest in Western Australia. Honourable senators may remember that the article concerned an attack by  Mr Andrew  Farran. He was an officer with the Department of Foreign Affairs for approximately 10 years. He is now a lecturer in law at Monash University. What  Mr Farran  said in effect about the distortions and misrepresentations engaged in by the DLP at the time when  Mr Freeth  was Minister for Foreign Affairs and made a statement in respect of the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean is reported as follows: 

 Mr Farran says the DLP misrepresented Freeth'* speech, then claimed the credit when the then Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  'whittled- the speech away as the election drew nearer. 
He describes as a 'typical instance of DLP chicanery'..... 
That is precisely what it is. We are seeing repeated in this instance the sort of pressure that the DLP previously brought to bear on the Government in its own narrow interests. Likewise, it would seem that the Government is as gutless as  Senator Little  says it is. 
I want to refer very briefly to the Bill. I say quite clearly that this Bill, in my view, does impinge quite heavily on the industrial relationship between employee and employer in the Commonwealth Public Service. In this field of industrial relations there are 2 basic ingredients - one is economic and the other is related to human relations. The economic ingredient, of course, relates to the wage and/ or salary paid for work done. This in turn determines in a major way the standard of living of the recipients. However, there are other forces and influences outside the immediate area of where wage rates are established which bear heavily on standards of living; that is, the decisions of the Commonwealth Government in relation to the management or mismanagement of the national economy. So it follows that, if the national economy is mismanaged and the purchasing power of the dollar paid in wages is eroded, organised labor - be it public servants or others - has no alternative but to press claims to do nothing more than merely retain or at least restore the purchasing value of the former wage paid. Of course, this has been the constant performance in recent years. It has been repeated again and again. I remind the Senate that the Institute of Public Affairs, in its December January issue of 1971-72 disclosed the dramatic fall in the value of the dollar. I referred to this in the course of a speech on a Social Services Bill, I think it was. This publication took the base year of 1951. It was shown that by 1971 the purchasing power of the dollar had fallen to 42c. The rates of pay of public servants consistently have fallen behind what is described as the going rate in other industries. Quite frankly, this is one of the greatest reasons for industrial disputation and unrest. There is no doubt that the blame for this unsatisfactory state of affairs rests fairly and squarely on the Commonwealth Government. I am sure that no-one, other than supporters of the Commonwealth Government, would dispute that assertion. 
The second ingredient in industrial relations to which I refer is human relations; that is, the way in which individuals and representatives of organisations conduct their consultations and negotiations. This Bill is clear evidence of the deplorable lack of understanding and appreciation of human relations in the context of industrial relations. This Bill manifests the master and servant mentality of the Government which has no place in the field of industrial relations in 1972. Goodwill and mutual respect can be cultivated only by meaningful discussions between parties with different interests. I think it is important at this stage to refer to the 15th annual wealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The first reference I propose to read appears at page 10 of the report. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
When the sitting of the Senate was suspended for dinner I was about to quota from .the Fifteenth Annual Report of the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir Richard  Kirby, for the year ended August 13th 1971. At page 10 of his report he said: 
I feel it my duty to report my strong opinion, based on my experience as a Judge of the old Court and as President of this Commission for its first IS years, that in the long term a reduction in strikes can only be brought about by an improvement in industrial relations, and that this is far more likely to arise from changed attitudes of the organised employers on the one hand and the organised trade union movement on the other band than from mere changes in Acts of Parliament. 
I quoted that passage because it seems to me that that suggestion by  Sir Richard  Kirby has a tremendous amount of merit. It should have attracted the attention of the Commonwealth Government when it was considering amendments to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act as well as this Bill that we have before us which is to amend the Public Service Arbitration Act. The introduction of this Bill was an opportunity for the Commonwealth Government to break new ground and, if need be, to experiment. By proper consultation and discussion with the organisations directly affected by any proposed new legislation, the Commonwealth could have endeavoured, if humanly possible, to find some model form of procedures which would enable parties to be brought together and to enter into meaningful negotiations and discussions about matters of concern to those employed in the Commonwealth Public Service and to the nominal employer of public servants. No one would question the experience that the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has accumulated over those 15 years. Notwithstanding the very sound advice expressed by him his views were not acted upon by the Government in this instance and I think that is a tragedy. 
What has happened in the intervening period prior to the introduction of this Bill in this sensitive area? One of may colleagues in the Australian Labor Party referred to correspondence that passed between the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and the Minister for Labour and National Service and particularly to a letter dated 27th October 1971. He referred also to letters from the  president  of that organisation,  Mr Linehan.  to the Secretary of the Public Service Board. He referred also to the reply received from the Minister written on10th November 1971, which indicated that he intended in due course to provide for discussions some time this year. 
What really happened? I have been informed by responsible officers of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations that the Minister flew to Melbourne to meet them - as far back as 27th October 1971 they had requested consultations - on the morning of the day that the Bill was introduced in the House of Representatives. In other words there was a fait accompli facing the Council when the Minister at least extended the courtesy of meeting its representatives in Melbourne. I understand that the Bill was introduced in the House of Representatives on 9th March. CCPSO representing thousands of public servants, really had no chance to engage in any useful discussions. 1 say that for this reason: The Minister gave a vague outline of the intention of the Bill and demanded that the discussions be confidential. The CCPSO representatives refused to comply with this request for the simple reason that at that time there had been newspaper reports published which described the intention of the proposed legislation prior to its introduction in the House that very night. As a consequence the CCPSO representatives did not feel bound to enter into any arrangement of confidentiality at that stage. As they were not prepared to meet the wish of the Minister that the discussions be treated as confidential, the Minister decided that he was not prepared to discuss the matter any further. That is the sum total of the consultations that the Minister was prepared to enter into. 1 suppose it cannot be said that the Minister did not at least in part meet the request of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, but it cannot be said that there were any meaningful discussions on the subject matter subsequently contained in this Bill. 
I wish to deal briefly with 3 clauses of the Bill. No doubt my colleagues later on will be discussing other aspects of the Bill. I draw the attention of the Senate to clause 4 of the Bill which contains proposed new section 12d which states: 
Where the Arbitrator has been informed under the last preceding section of the existence or likely occurrence of an industrial situation, the Arbitrator or a Deputy Arbitrator - 
shall forthwith call a conference of representatives of the Board. . . . 
I do not propose to quote the proposed new section in full because I think every honourable senator would be aware of precisely what it means. My understanding of proposed new section 12d is that there is no requirement to hear the parties to the dispute. This seems to negate a longstanding provision of the present Public Service Arbitration Act. I am not aware of how long section 13 has been in that Act but 1 understand that it has been there for very many years. 1 think it requires quoting. Section 13 (1) states: 
In relation to every claim or application made to him in pursuance of this Act, the Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator shall act according to equity, good conscience and the substantial merits of the case, without regard to technicalities or legal forms, and shall not be bound by any rules of evidence, but may inform his mind on any matter in such manner as he thinks fit. 
In my view, after studying proposed new section 12d contained in clause 4 of this Bill, there is no provision which obliges the Arbitrator or a Deputy Arbitrator to act in accordance with the long-standing provisions of section 13 of the existing Act. That in itself is one of the things which gave rise to such concern by the CCPSO which will be seriously affected by this Bill. 
Section 13 may still apply but the Arbitrator or the  Deputy  Arbitrator is not obliged to comply because of the terms of proposed new section 12d. 
I would welcome the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  informing the Senate as to whether in fact he will be obliged to comply with the existing section. Proposed new section 12d contained in clause 4 of the Bill is said to be substantially what is contained in section 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. However, a very critical clause has been left out of proposed new section 12e contained in clause 4 of this Bill to amend the Public Service Arbitration Act. Section 29 (2.), the critical provisions omitted from proposed new section 12e of the Public Service Arbitration Bill, states: 
In determining the persons to whom directions are given under the last preceding sub-section, the Commissioner shall take into consideration the persons having the highest degree of authority, on behalf of the parties to the industrial dispute, to negotiate for the settlement of the dispute. 
I direct the attention of the Minister again to proposed new section 12e which literally refers to the calling of a compulsory conference. It certainly lays down the penalties for failing to respond to the Arbitrator's call for a conference, but it does not provide for any machinery to enable the parties to be heard, which is mandatory under the existing section 29 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. But it goes further than that. Subsection (5.) of proposed section 12e states: 
The conference shall be held in private except to such extent (if any) as the Arbitrator or a Deputy Arbitrator directs that it be held in public. 
Why should a reference be made there to the effect that the conference shall be held in private except to such extent, if any, as the Arbitrator or the  Deputy  Arbitrator directs otherwise? My personal experience of being summoned to a court under section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is that a public hearing is held initially at which the parties may determine - this is something that would be mutually agreed upon - that it would be in the best interests of the attempts to settle the dispute if the parties were to go into conference - in other words, if the public were to be excluded from the discussions. But that is something which is mutually agreed upon by the parties concerned; it is not something that is left to the arbitrary discretion of the conciliator or the commissioner under the terms of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as distinct from what is in fact set out in the Bill. I hope that the Minister will be able to enlighten me on both those counts. 
In addition to those 2 references I did want to refer briefly to clause 3 of the Bill, which has given rise to great concern, lt is the provision which defines an industrial situation. The definition of an 'industrial situation' is one of the most beautifully vague expressions I have ever read in my life, particularly when one takes into account the interpretation that one could place on it. I think one could place any interpretation of convenience on it at any time. The Amalgamated Postal Workers Union has taken the opportunity to obtain eminent counsel's opinion as to precisely what he thought of the Bill as a whole and, in particular, what he thought of clause 3. This is what that gentleman said: 
The definition of 'industrial situation' contained in section 3 of this Bill is no doubt analogous to the many forms of ban clause inserted into awards under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Under the Act the provisions of sections 109 and 111 contain coercive measures to enforce the bans clause. 
In the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, at least in theory, the system of coercion is visited equally on organisations and employers (in some cases individual employers) on the one hand and on the other hand organisations of employees (and in some cases individuals). 
In reality, of course, the system operates basically to penalise trade unions and workers. The amendment projected by the Bill can really only operate one way and that is against the unions and their members and public servants generally. 
I think that is important. It continues: 
The penalty imposed by section 12 (e) for failure to attend a compulsory conference ($1,000) cannot be imposed on the Commonwealth nor any branch of ils Public Service. There is thus a distinction from the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in that in this Bill it is a totally one-sided penalty. 
It would seem to me that the reality of this Bill is to lay the foundation for still more far reaching penal provisions against the Public Service unions, organisations and members. Probably what is in contemplation is something of the nature of the system of penalties provided for in such sections as 109 and 111 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The failure to make the type of order contemplated in section 12 (d) of the Bill (having in mind the definition of 'industrial situation') would, in my opinion, have no explanation other than this is what is in contemplation. It is not in effect a statutory bans clause and it must surely be taken to be a preliminary to a more far reaching system of coercion of the Public Service and its members. 
 From an opinion by eminent counsel that the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union obtained in respect to the Bill as a whole. I have referred principally only to clause 3 and, of course, to the consequential reference to the proposed section 12b. Having said that, I think it is necessary to indicate precisely what is the reaction of organisations to this legislation. I am indebted to the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union for a file which was given to me as late as this afternoon. It contains a resolution - I think the Government should be aware of this - that was passed by the ACTU Federal Unions Conference in Sydney on Wednesday, 12th April 1972, which reads as follows: 
This conference of federal unions condemns the anti-union legislation introduced into the Federal Parliament, by the Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Lynch,  which has as its objective the emasculation of trade unionism in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Clearly, the amending legislation is directed against unions which have asserted their democratic right to take industrial action against the reactionary and hostile anti-union government. 
This conference warns the McMahon Government that it will nol only forfeit the goodwill of the average trade unionist in the Commonwealth Public Service, but this will be one of the steps that will ensure its ultimate downfall if it persists in this reactionary type of legislation. We call upon all members of the Federal Parliament to reject this legislation. 
This conference applauds the action of 46 white collar unions and councils meeting in Sydney on 9th March, which condemns the Federal Government's policies over discriminatory legislation and wage-salary demands, and called for political action in the electorates, starting with the Lowe electorate, to defeat candidates supporting such legislation as that proposed for public servants. We call on all senators to repeat the Lynch Bill and return the issue for any necessary and preliminary discussion to the ACTU, ACSPA and CCPSO and the departments, Opposition leaders and the Government. 
That resolution was carried unanimously, which means that it represents the opinion of not only the physical grades in the organised trade union movement concerned with government - that is, the Australian Council of Trade Unions - but also about a quarter of a million employees employed directly in the Public Service of the Commonwealth of Australia. I do not think that the Government can afford to take such a decision lightly. 
A look at the late extra final edition of the 'Daily Mirror' of 18th April, which is today, will show that that has been followed up. It appears that the Public Service Board refused a claim by Commonwealth public servants for a flow on of the 9 per cent increase granted to Victorian public servants and offered a 4.6 per cent increase instead. The unions have rejected that offer. It is an offer, of course, that will affect some 30,000 Third Division public servants and about another 200,000 Fourth Division public servants.  Mr Linehan,  the Federal Secretary of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, was reported by the 'Daily Mirror' as having described the Board's decision as a sham and a fraud. He is reported as having gone on to say: 
Appropriate courses of action will now be decided by the unions and this could include widespread strikes. 
Nobody is going to cop a situation where you waste 4 months going through a sham of an exercise like today's. 
The article in today's 'Daily Mirror' said: 
Today's judgment was vital in the Government's campaign to fight wage rises as an inflationary step. 
It also referred to the statement that was made some time ago by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  It is worth while reminding the Senate of what he said. The article states: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  made the Government's position clear at the Premiers Conference in February when he said it would do everything in its power to 'quarantine' the Victorian wage rise. 
That means simply that Commonwealth public servants will be deprived by the Public Service Board, no doubt at the behest of the Commonwealth Government, of what has been described as the going rate in private industry. It has been clearly indicated by the Prime Minister himself and by other Ministers on behalf of the Government that Commonwealth public servants will be deprived of the going rates applicable in the State public services. 1 do not know what the Government would expect to be the reaction of Commonwealth public servants to that. 
 Of course they will not. They have already described their exact intention and the action they propose to take. In my view this is right. They will endeavour to offset the deficiencies of this Government in allowing the costs of goods and services to escalate to an unreasonable level. 1 am also in a position to inform the Senate that the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union is concerned. Incidentally this union is affiliated with the Postal Telephone and Telegraph International which is a major international organisation representing about 20 million public servants across the world. With the exception of one nation they are all western nations. In other words they arc all on this side of the curtain, if one wants to describe it in that way. On 5th April  Mr Slater  issued this statement: 
20 MILLION PROTEST BY TELEGRAM 
The Amalgamated Postal Workers' Union of Australia has received telegrams from Unions all over the world representing 20 million Public Service and Post Office employees protesting against the McMahon Government's Bill amending the Public Service Arbitration Act to provide for greater penal powers. 
Both the Postal Telephone and Telegraph international to which the A.P.W.U. is adi Iia ted, and the Trades Union International of Public Service Employees have condemned the Australian Government measures as a curtailment of trade union rights and contrary to Internationa) Labour Organisation conventions. 1 am advised that the International Trade Union bodies will lodge a protest with the International Labour Organisation concerning the Public Service Arbitration Act amendments. 
I do not propose to delay the Senate unduly but a file of telegrams has been received from the affiliates of this international organisation. These telegrams concern the statement which  Mr Slater  released on 5th April. To some extent this indicates the concern which has been registered by the organisations referred to. In our view this Bill is ill-considered and it does not accord with the Minister's second reading speech. I believe this is borne out by the eminent counsel's opinion which was obtained by the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union and to which I referred earlier. This Bill is totally unsatisfactory to thousands of public servants who will be directly affected by it. It will not create an atmosphere conducive to satisfactory relations which are critical to the settlement of industrial disputes. 
Contrary to the intention of this Bill as stated by the Minister - that is the settlement of disputes and other incidents undefined - this Bill will give rise to unnecessary irritation and disputation in the Public Service to the disadvantage of those employed in the Service and to the community as a whole. We have been asked what we would do. For the benefit of the Senate I repeat that we would go back to square one, in effect. The Minister should be prepared to honour his original agreement to enter into meaningful discussions and negotiations with the public service organisations, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other interested organisations which would be affected for the purpose of redrafting the legislation after proper consultation with those organisations. I urge the Government to pay heed to the suggestion which is being made by the Opposition. We are not speaking in terms of 26 honourable senators on this side of the chamber. We are speaking on behalf of organised labour in Commonwealth Public Service which represents about a quarter of a million employees. That is important indeed. 
In passing I say that it would appear - I regret that neither of the 2 honourable senators concerned are present at the moment - that recently  Senator McManus  on television made a statement about the current situation in Vietnam. He was urging that Australia should send troops back to Vietnam. 1 clearly recall that the day following his television appearance the Vice  President  of the national Australian Democratic Labor Party organisation questioned the right of  Senator McManus  to make such a statement because the Vice  President  said that it was contrary to DLP policy. I now wonder whether there is further evidence of a rift between certain influential people inside the DLP. 
Among a group of public service organisations which met on 9th March, unanimously roundly condemned this Bill and called on all honourable senators to oppose it, was none other than a very prominent member of the Democratic Labor Party. 1 refer to the Federal  President  of the Federated Clerks Union,  Mr Maynes.  1 wonder whether there is not clear evidence now of a greater rift developing. No doubt it is true that the union is microscopic in terms of industrial support but to the extent that the Democratic Labor Party has that support it would appear that it is not even prepared to concede the wishes of the organisation which supports it politically. 1 sincerely hope that the Senate will have second thought about this Bill and that it will comply with the suggestion which has been made by public service organisations throughout Australia and which the Australian Labor Party has put on behalf of those people. 
 I will be pleased to table it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order!  Senator Lillico,  pursuant to standing order 364 you must move that the document quoted from by  Senator Brown  during his speech be laid upon the table of the Senate. 
That the document quoted from by  Senator Brown  during his speech be' laid upon the table of the Senate. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - lis leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 

 Senator BROWN (Victoria)- I would be pleased to have this document incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  Senator Brown,  you may debate the motion which  Senator Lillico  has moved. 
 I am not resisting the tabling or the incorporation of the document in Hansard. If the honourable senator would agree I would prefer to have the document incorporated in Hansard for everybody to read. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  Senator Lillico,  do you withdraw your motion? 
 I seek leave to have this document incorporated in Hansard, lt is in relation to an opinion on the Public Service Arbitration Bill. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - ls leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that in a Melbourne County Court yesterday Judge Hewitt, in dismissing  Mr Ken  McLelland's appeal,  k  reported as having said that he was of the opinion that the National Service Act gave him no discretion at all in the matter and 'although 1 loathe to do so 1 must confirm the sentence"? In the interests of justice I ask the Minister whether he will examine the transcript of this hearing and if necessary consult Judge Hewitt to ascertain what deficiencies exist, if any, in the National Service Act which prohibit or inhibit a judge from exercising his judicial judgment and discretion based on the evidence placed before him. 
Yesterday I asked a question of  Senator Wright,  as the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, relative to a  Mr Paul  Fox. As I indicated it through my Whip and confirmed it a little later when I met the Minister in the course of the evening, I presume that he was aware that I intended to raise this matter, which is of interest to me, again this evening. I presume that he has a copy of the question and the answer. I want to refer to the question, because it is important. I asked the Minister: 
Is it a fact that Paul Fox, who was sentenced to 18 months gaol on 3rd March 1972 for allegedly failing to comply with the requirements of the National Service Act, had applied on 3rd March 1972 to the Department of Labour and National Service for an exemption on the grounds that he was a conscientious objector? Is it also a fact that the Department of Labour and National Service did not acknowledge receipt of the application until 6th April 1972 and advised  Mr Fox's  lawyer that the matter had been referred for legal advice? Is it also a fact that 2 letters which Paul Fox's lawyer has written to the Department asking for a speedy hearing have not been acknowledged by it? I ask him why there has been such an inordinate delay in fixing a date for a hearing to enable the application by Paul Fox to be tested by a court of summary jurisdiction in accordance with the provisions of section 29b. of the National Service Act. Finally, will the Minister, without further delay, comply with the mandatory provisions of section 29b.(1.) of the National Service Act and fix a date forthwith for the hearing. 
The Minister in his reply - I read from Hansard - said, among other things: 
It is not a fact that this man Fox on 3rd March made application to be classified as  a  conscientious objector. The fact is that, at the hearing on 3rd March, Fox who was not represented refused to plead to the charge and a plea of not guilty was entered by the court. He was convicted and sentenced on the same day- that is, on 3rd March - as a person having a clear liability to report for and to render service who hod not done so. He was given an opportunity by the court to undertake  to  report for service, but refused to do so. He was sentenced as the law requires to a period of imprisonment equivalent to the period of service for which he  was  liable. 
By virtue of section  5  Id of the National Service Act, as a person sentenced to prison for failing  to  report for service. Fox no longer has any liability to render service under that Act. However, on  6th  March - that is, 3 days later - after  his  conviction the Registrar for National Sevice received a letter dated 3rd March from a different firm of solicitors to that which had represented Fox  at  the pre-trial hearing, purporting to represent Fox and enclosing an application for consideration  as a  conscientious objector. That matter received immediate attention. It is a matter upon which legal advice is necessary. Every effort will be made favourably to give an opportunity to have the claims of  this  man to be classified as a conscientious objector tested by the court if the terms of  the Act  permit that now to be considered by the court. 
That answer was completely unsatisfactory. I want to advert briefly to the statement in the answer by the Minister that it is not a fact that this man Fox on 3rd March made application to be classified as a conscientious objector. I have received today from the solicitor representing  Mr Fox  - nor purporting to represent  Mr Fox  but in fact representing him - a photostat copy of Form 7 which, as the Minister would be aware, is the application for determination of the question whether a person is a conscientious objector. It was signed by  Mr Paul  Fox on 2nd March 1972. I have the covering letter which was forwarded by the firm of solicitors representing  Mr Fox.  One was addressed to the Governor of the Pentridge Prison, Coburg, and dated 3rd March. It reads: 
Enclosed please find copy of application for determination of conscientious objector for your information. 
There was also a covering letter sent with the original Form 7 to the Director of the Department of Labour and National Service, 151 Flinders Street, Melbourne, on 3rd March. It reads: 
Enclosed herewith original application for exemption on behalf of our client. 
It cannot be said, as the Minister said in his answer, that it is not a fact that this man Fox on 3rd March made application to be classified as a conscientious objector. It may well be - I concede this - that between the posting of the application and its receipt there was a lapse of a few days. Nevertheless, it is not true to say that he did not make application. That was the origin of his application. The only reply that has been received by the firm of solicitors who are representing  Mr Fox  is dated 6th April. According to the Minister's answer, that was the day on which the Form 7 was received by the Registrar of the Department. On 6th April, a  Mr R.  S. Saunderson, the Registrar of the Department of Labour and National Service, wrote to Messrs J. N. Zigouras and Co., barristers and solicitors, 52 Victoria Street, Carlton 3053. The letter reads: 
Dear sirs, 
The application by  Mr Paul  Fox under section 29a of the National Service Act 19S1 as amended for determination of the question whether he is a conscientious objector forwarded with your letter dated 3rd March 1972 has been received and has been referred for legal advice. 1 will let you have further advice shortly in this matter. 1 remind the Senate that at that stage the Department of Labour and National Service was aware that the firm of Messrs J. N. Zigouras and Co., Barristers and Solicitors, 52 Victoria Street, Carlton 3053, Victoria, was representing  Mr Paul  Fox. Between 3rd March when the letter was written to the Registrar and to the Governor of the prison and when the letter was received from the Registrar of the Department, the representatives of  Mr Fox  wrote 2 other letters to the Director of the Department of Labour and National Service. One is dated 7th March 1972. It reads: 
Re: Paul Fox- ^Conscientious Objection. 
We refer to our letter of the 3rd March 1972 enclosing application. 
We would appreciate your deleting paragraph (b) of the application, as our client intends to apply for total exemption. 
We would also appreciate your co-operation in bringing this matter on for speedy hearing having regard to the circumstances. 
I think that the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service would concede that that was an important communication because it did vary the original application by  Mr Fox.  As the Minister would be aware, form 7, the application for determination of the question whether a person is a conscientious objector, is described in regulation 31 (a) and (b).  Mr Fox's  representatives were asking the Director to delete paragraph (b) of the original application. No reply was received then and none has been received to this time. On 30th March the legal representatives of  Mr Fox  again wrote to the Director. The letter reads: 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Prime Minister aware of a document prepared by a  Mr Marc  Acheson, who was a top executive with a merchant bank, which disclosed that the assets of overseas banks represented in Australia totalled more than $500,000 million, which he states to be 80 times the size of the total assets of the Australian banking system and about5 times the cumulative Australian gross national expenditure over the past 4 years. 
Will the Prime Minister, as a matter of urgency, take steps to ascertain the accuracy of  Mr Acheson's  report and inform the Parliament of his findings. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes.  Mr Acheson's  report was published in the 'Australian Financial Review' in three instalments over the period 28th July to 30th July 1971. It was subsequently updated as a special supplement to the January 1972 issue of Euromoney' a United Kingdom based financial magazine. 
I am advised by the Treasurer that the broad comparisons drawn by  Mr Acheson  between the global assets of foreign banking institutions represented in Australia and selected aggregates in Australia are substantially accurate in arithmetical terms if the 'Australian banking system' is defined to exclude savings and development banks.  Mr Acheson  stated in his report that such comparisons were 'of academic interest only'. 
The Minister could have been a little clearer in respect of one aspect of his answer. 1 now expect him, in consequence of his passing reference to it, to give me a straight answer. The question is simply this: Under the new provision in proposed section 12d(l.)(b), is the Arbitrator obliged at all times to comply with the provisions of section 13 of the principal Act? 
In respect to proposed new section 12d, to which my colleague has referred, as he indicated the Public Service Arbitrator may call parties to a conference. He may or may not hear evidence, and he may make a decision as he sees fit which can amount to the standing down of employees. I seek information from the Minster as to whether inclusion of that new provision in the Act will negate a long-standing provision of the principal Act, namely section 13 to which 1 referred yesterday, which provides in sub-section (1): 
In relation lo every claim or application made to him in pursuance of this Act, (he Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator shall act according lo equity, good conscience and the substantial merits of the case, without regard to technicalities or legal forms, and shall no( be bound by any rules of evidence, but  may inform his mind on any matter in such manner as he thinks (its. 
We are concerned that paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section I 2d gives much wider powers to the Arbitrator and Deputy Arbitrator and that the Bill fails to provide adequate safeguards. As my colleague said, there is a complementary reference in proposed new section 12e, sub-section (5) which prescribes that conferences shall be held in private except to such extent, if any, as the Arbitrator or a Deputy Arbitrator directs that they are to be held in public. The organisation, quite rightly in my view, has registered alarm at such an extensive power. It believes that one of the protecting influences available to an organisation is a public hearing which can attract public interest, which in turn provides substantial emotional content. Therefore, we do not believe the Arbitrator should be the sole arbiter of whether the conference shall or shall not be held in private. If the Bill becomes an Act of Parliament, one of its provisions should not negate the long-standing provision of the principal Act to which I have referred section 13. I' ask the Minister to inform me on this subject matter. 
I draw the attention of the Minister to subsection (4.) of the proposed new section 12b which provides in respect of compulsory conferences: 
A person directed under sub-section (1.) of this section shall attend the conference and continue his attendance at the conference as directed by the Arbitrator or a Deputy, Arbitrator. 
Penalty: One thousand dollars.  ls it a fact that the fine of $1,000 provided for in respect of failure to attend a compulsory conference cannot be imposed on the Commonwealth or any branch of the Public Service? If that is so it means, of course, that it is a discriminatory penalty which can be imposed on only one party to the dispute. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department, Central Administration Board's Policy of re-centralising and concentrating certain staffs, under what is called the Area Management Project, to the great detriment of the economics of the towns and related rural areas, and to the detriment of the overall morale, efficiency and independence of the Australian Post Office is against the public interest and. should be made the subject of special investigation by the Senate's Social Environment Committee and by the Senate's Finance and Government Operations Standing Committee. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to refer the above matters to the two committees of the Senate referred to, and in the meantime will order that: 
There will be no transfers of persons, areas of authority or operations under the Area Management Project; and, 
No further appointments to positions under Area Managers or above them in the State Administrations or Central Administration of the Australian Post Office until the two committees of the Senate have investigated the matters and reported to the Senate and the Government. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I think my question is appropriately directed to you,  Mr President.  Will you inform the Senate before the end of the current session of the provisions to be made to ensure that senators will have access to their normal facilities in Parliament House while the South East Asia Treaty Organisation conference is being held in Parliament House in lune? 
 I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he has formulated any opinion on the application by  Mr Paul  Fox under section 29a of the National Service Act 1951, as amended, which was referred to his Department by the Minister for Labour and National Service? If he has not I ask him whether he is aware that it is over 7 weeks since the original application was sent to the Director of Labour and National Service in Melbourne? When did the Minister's Department receive the referred matter for advice? Will the Minister expedite the advice sought by his colleague in another place? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he will be good enough to supply to me by letter answers to the specific details sought in the question I asked previously. Will he also inform me in that communication the date on which the advice which was sought by his col-  league the Minister for Labour and National Service in another place was furnished to the Minister? 
Like my colleague,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, and the previous  speaker, Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield, I enthusiastically support this report and its recommendations. I think it is appropriate to remind honourable senators at the outset that the Senate in its wisdom on 2nd September 1970, having established a number of legislative and general purpose standing committees, decided to refer to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare an important matter, namely: 
. the problems of, and the provisions for assistance to, mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia. 
I have heard no criticism of the Committee's report. The reverse has been the situation. There has been nothing but praise for the material that has been compiled and presented in this report and the recommendations contained in the report. 
As my colleague,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, and  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield said, many directly involved voluntary organisations which have interested themselves in the care, welfare and treatment of mentally and physically handicapped people in Australia have requested repeatedly by letters, I am sure to all members of the Senate and no doubt to members of the House of Representatives, that at least some of the 85 recommendations that they say would materially assist them in providing greater care and treatment to those whom they have cared for and treated over the years be implemented. 
Inside  12  months, this Committee was able to present its report. I. think that that in itself is a commendation of the Committee's determination and resolution to deal with this matter which is of such importance. Many organisations forwarded written submissions to the Committee. Commonwealth departments and no fewer than  5  State government departments prepared and presented well documented submissions. As well,  70  submissions from voluntary organisations were forwarded and verbal evidence was taken tinder oath from some  45  witnesses at  10  public hearings. 
I do not think that the Senate can discount lightly  2  facts. The first is the importance of the decision that it made for the first time in its history to set up these committees. The second is the hope that this move gave to members of the public at large in seeing, as they did, the opportunity to avail themselves of another channel of access to the Australian Parliament by placing submissions before the various committees dealing with whatever subject matters are referred to them for inquiry and report. This in turn involved the Commonwealth in expenditure to service these committees. Public money is being spent, and well spent in my view, to examine in depth and in detail matters of importance to the Commonwealth for consideration by Parliament. If these committees are to have any meaning whatsoever, their work must receive the Government's consideration at the earliest opportunity, and subsequently the consideration of Parliament when the Government decides to adopt the recommendations that it considers appropriate to the subject matter under consideration. 
The Committee's work brought to light  a  matter of great concern to everybody. It appears in the introductory remarks on page vi of the report: 
The Committee was informed that there is  a  decline in the number of babies born with brain damage, due to a. reduction in the incidence of infectious diseases. It has also been said that the size of the handicapped population is increasing, mainly due to the survival of babies born with previously fatal conditions and to industrial and increasing road accidents. 
This means in effect that notwithstanding that the Committee was unable to ascertain the number of mentally and physically handicapped people in the Commonwealth, it was able to glean from professional and expert evidence that the level of mentally and physically handicapped people in Australia was on the increase. This point should be noted by the Minister, and I am sure that he has done so on reading the report. The report went on to say at page ix - and I think the 3 references are pertinent - under the heading 'Recommendations': 
The following are the recommendations of the Committee: 
The Number of Mentally and Physically Handicapped Persons hi Australia 
Definitions 
That there should be laid down a set of definitions for the guidance of medical, educational and welfare authorities working in the field of handicapped persons in Australia. 
In other words we have not even established in this country the definition of a mentally and physically handicapped person. We are not yet at a stage to determine the numbers based on a categorisation of variations between people with a retardation on the one hand and a physical handicap on the other. The Committee recommended that a survey be carried out in each State to determine the numbers of mentally and physically handicapped persons, by category of handicap. The report went on to say that funds should be made available for the States through the Commonwealth Department of Health to finance the surveys. This, if implemented, would mean some additional cost to the Commonwealth Government, but I am sure that as an initial step in ascertaining the magnitude of the problem, it would be of small moment in terms of the cost involved to ascertain first of all the rudimentary information that is necessary if the subsequent recommendations of the Committee are to be adopted. 

 Senator Dame Nancy Buttfield has referred to recommendations on page  50.  I agree  100  per cent with them, and I propose briefly to refer to them. The Committee recommended that a Division of Rehabilitation be established within the Commonweath Department of Health. Like the  2  former speakers, in recent months I have had the opportunity of examining the facilities and the .kind of treatment that is being afforded to mentally and physically handicapped people. I am sure that there would be no person in this Senate - or outside it for that matter - who, having had this opportunity, would not be moved by the resolution, determination and courage of the people we have seen, who have been provided with facilities and opportunities for rehabilitation to the greatest extent of their capacities. Therefore it would seem to me that this recommendation is soundly based. 
I agree with the second proposal that a national advisory council for the handicapped be established. This field of concern, the handicapped, strikes me as somewhat akin to our social services system, which has tended to grow like Topsy over the years. There is a scattered arrangement of services. There are great gaps between actual priority needs that ought to be met, and there is overlapping between the States and the Commonwealth. Regrettably, many people fall between these services and do not receive the real attention to which they should be entitled. We must co-ordinate, draw together, provide some cohesion and consolidate the scheme of arrangements so that a person will not have to shop around, so to speak, to find out his entitlement and the Department from which he must seek it. People should be able te go to one centre and be dealt with at that point. This would relieve a lot of strain and anguish that they must experience in trying to determine what help they might obtain from a great range of facilities that are available. 
As  1  said earlier, it seems to me that this is an excellent report. The Committee has worked assiduously. The report has been before the Senate for just on 12 months. My greatest concern is twofold. First, the task of caring for the mentally and physically handicapped, the magnitude of which becomes manifest upon a reading of the report, has not been dealt with as expeditiously as we should have liked and hoped. The Government should have accepted a number of recommendations which would cost nothing at all, or at least only a minimum amount, to put into effect. It should have got under way the survey that is suggested in the early part of the introduction. The second consideration is that this group of people, the mentally and physically handicapped, are unlike any other group in the community. They are dispersed. They are not a coherent group. Unlike, for instance, the manufacturing, commercial and trade union interests, they are not able to bring pressure to bear, or to prepare and present their point of view on what they believe ought to be done to assist them. They have to rely on the good sense and judgment of the legislators of this nation to ensure that they are not forgotten. 1 think it would be a reasonable criticism of every senator to say that in effect these people have to some extent been forgotten in the past. This report leaves no room for any of us in the future to make excuses for not giving consideration and attention to the needs of the mentally and physically handicapped in Australia. 
I hope the Minister will, as a consequence of this debate, see - fit to expedite the inquiries through the interdepartmental committee that he was instrumental in having set up to examine this report. If the interdepartmental committee is unable within a reasonable time to submit proposals on the whole report for consideration by the Government and eventual submission to Parliament, I suggest that at least  it  should look at some of the recommendations which, if accepted, would not create the complications that might otherwise arise because of the interests of so many departments. I suggest it would  be  possible to select some of the Committee's recommendations for immediate implementation. I am sure the Minister has had before him letters from voluntary organisations which have suggested only 2, 3 or  4  of the 85 recommendations as those which they are desirous of having implemented as soon as possible to enable them to increase the value of their care and attention to the mentally and physically handicapped persons in whom they are interested. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
(Quorum formed)  In my concluding remarks, I acknowledge the numerous interests competing for attention by the Commonwealth Treasury. In my view there is  no  doubt that  if  we are  to  provide the kind of programme which will meet the needs of treatment and care and an appropriate rehabilitation programme for the mentally and physically handicapped in Australia then some additional finance will be required to service that type of scheme. However I think that when we ace determining what ought to be done and what needs to be done the underlying philosophy which should be guiding our determination should be based on what is physically and financially possible. I believe that it is not beyond the physical capacity of the Commonwealth Government to give the leadership which is required to promote the programme which is being suggested in the broad terms of this report. Likewise I am sure it is not beyond the financial capabilities of the Commonwealth to service such a programme. Whatever cost may be required, I think it should be seen not as a cost against the people of the Commonwealth but rather as an investment in that great number who require our urgent attention, namely, the mentally and physically handicapped in Australia. 
 1  regret that it is necessary for me again to raise a matter that I have been pursuing since 17th April without success, but I have exhausted every avenue known to me in my quest for an answer from the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  to a question. My question was whether a claim of conscientious objection to national service by  Mr Paul  Fox on 3rd March of this year, which was acknowledged by the Department of Labour and National Service on 6th April of this year, is entitled to be tested by a court of summary jurisdiction. I think it is important that I should relate to the Senate precisely the steps that 1 have taken. I repeat that I believe 1 have exhausted every avenue known to me in my endeavour to obtain satisfaction on behalf of my constituent of the State of Victoria. 
When this matter was first brought to my notice on 17th April I sent an urgent telegram to the Minister for Labour and National Service in the following terms: 
Understand Paul Fox imprisoned some time and claims to be a conscientious objector. Cannot understand why correct procedures to have objection tested have not been taken. Please advise. 
That telegram was sent on 17th April. At 9.35 a.m. on 20th April I received a reply in Canberra in the following terms: 
I acknowledge receipt of your telegram roncerning Paul Fox. The matters concern questions of law which I have referred to my colleague the Attorney-General for consideration. 
The telegram was signed 'Phillip Lynch, Minister for Labour and National Service*. On Tuesday, 18th April I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service,  Senator Wright,  why facilities had not been made available to Paul Fox to have his claim tested. In his reply, the Minister adverted to section 51d of the National Service Act. Finally, he said that the matter would receive immediate attention. He added: 
It is a matter upon which legal advice is necessary. Every effort will be made favourably to give an opportunity to have the claims of this man to be classified as a conscientious objector tested by the Court if the terms of the Act permit that now to be considered by the Court. 
Because I was not satisfied with that answer I followed up the matter by speaking in the adjournment debate on the following night, 19th April. In my closing remarks on that occasion I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service to request the Minister for Labour and National Service to expedite the facilities that should be made available to  Mr Fox  to have his claim tested forthwith. Approximately a week later - on 27th April - I asked a question of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  because I had received advice from the Minister for Labour and National Service on 20th April and from the Minister who represents in this chamber the Minister for Labour and National Service on 19th April, that a matter that had to be considered in the legal sense was whether the application was applicable at that stage because of section 51d. On 27th April 1 asked the following question of the Attorney-General: 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he has formulated any opinion on the application by  Mr Paul  Fox under section 29a of the National Service Act 1951, as amended, which was referred to his Department by the Minister for Labour and National Service? If he has not I ask him whether he is aware that it is over 7  weeks since the original application was sent to the Director of Labour and National Service in Melbourne? When did the Minister's Department receive the referred matter for advice? Will the Minister expedite the advice sought by his colleague in another place? 
The Attorney-General replied as follows: 
I  am unable to give the precise dates in response to the honourable senator's question. It is a fact that advice was sought from my Department and that that advice was given to the Department of Labour and National Service some time ago. 
You,  Mr President,  were good enough to allow me to ask a supplementary question in due course and I asked the AttorneyGeneral whether he would be good enough to supply to me by letter the specific details sought in the question I had asked previously. The Attorney-General, in response to my request, said that he would do so. To this date I have not received a reply. However, I did check with the solicitor who is representing  Mr Fox  on Tuesday of this week to ascertain whether any advice had been received, I checked yesterday and I checked again this morning. There was only a formal acknowledgement by the Minister for Labour and National Service of a letter from  Mr Fox's  solicitors dated 28th April. It made no reference to requests made by  Mr Fox's  solicitor over the period of time from 7th March to 28 th April that the matter be listed for hearing. 
I decided then that 1 would attempt to see the Minister for Labour and National Service himself. Yesterday I attempted to make an appointment to see  Mr Lynch.  I said that I would be pleased if it would be possible for me to see him not later than 4 p.m. I received advice late in the afternoon that  Mr Lynch  had carriage of a bill in another place and he was not available. I understood the situation. I impressed upon the Minister's secretary that I would like to know later in the evening whether it would be possible to see the Minister today. This morning 1 again rang the Minister's office and it was suggested to me that I might be prepared to see the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Street.  That I readily agreed to. However, I was rung back in a very short space of time and advised that  Mr Street  would be busy most of the time. It is true that originally I was invited to see the Assistant Minister right away but unfortunately it was not possible for me to do so because I was waiting on a call from Melbourne. Tentative arrangements were made for me to see him later on in the afternoon although I did stress upon his secretary that I would be grateful if an appointment could be arranged for not later than 6 o'clock this evening. I do not know whether the Assistant Minister or the Minister himself took umbrage because I was rather insistent due to the time factor. I did indicate that if I could not obtain satisfaction or an appointment, or both, I intended to take another course of action this evening, which I am now doing. Incidentally, I heard no more from the Minister's office and I was in and around my office up until 6 p.m. by deliberate design. In the meantime I informed the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service that I would be raising this matter and that I would let him know if I were to change course before the adjournment of the Senate. Of course, that has not transpired. 
I want to say at this stage that I frankly believe that Paul Fox is entitled to have his claim to be a conscientious objector tested by an appropriate court. However, if the Minister for Labour and National Service was advised by the Attorney-General's some time prior to 27th April that Fox had no entitlement to have his claim decided, why was the Department not informed Fox's legal advisers? It is now 10 weeks all but one day since Fox, through his solicitor, gave notice on Form 7 of his claim to be a conscientious objector. I repeat that it is just  3  weeks and  3  days today since I first raised the matter by telegram with the Minister for Labour and National Service. On 18th April I asked a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service and I spoke on this same subject matter on 19th April. It is 2 weeks today since the Attorney-General in answer to a question asked by me said: 
It is a fact that advice was sought from my Department and that that advice was given to the Department of Labour and National Service some time ago. 
I repeat that last week the Minister did acknowledge a letter from Fox's solicitor dated 28th April 1972. That letter from Fox's solicitor reads: 
We act on behalf of the abovenamed who has been in custody since the 4rd of March, 1972, for failure to comply with a call-up notice. 
Our office was consulted by the abovenamed on the 2nd of March, 1972 and on that date signed an application for total exemption as a Conscientious Objector. 
This application together with our covering letter was forwarded to the Registrar on the 3rd of March. 1972. 
Notwithstanding the urgency of the situation in view of the fact that our client has been in jail since that date, the Registrar has ignored all our pleas for a speedy hearing apart, from acknowledging our letter containing  Mr Fox's  application, on the 7th of April, 1972, more than one month after it was sent to the Department. 
In view of the extreme urgency of this situation we would implore you to exercise your discretion under Regulation 32 (a) and refer this question to a competent Court of Summary Jurisdiction for hearing and decision. 
Kindly contact  Mr Gullaci  of our office if von require any further details. 
The extraordinary thing about this is that it was a week after the Attorney-General had informed me on 27th April that advice had been sought by the Department of Labour and National Service from his Department 'some time ago' that the Minister replied to that letter. I do not know how long before 27th April, which was the day on which 1 asked the question, the Attorney-General is referring to when he says 'some time ago', but certainly it was before 27th April. So  Mr Fox's  solicitor wrote to the Minister for Labour and 
National Service on 28th April. The Minister acknowledged receipt of that letter last week, but in that letter there was no reference by the Minister to the advice he may have received from the Attorney-General's Department. I think it is fair comment that that is strange conduct indeed. Why is the Minister delaying - I believe it can be said that he is delaying deliberately - in informing Fox's solicitor on precisely where he stands? I think the charge fairly could be laid on the Government that the Government's treatment of Fox reeks of discrimination and political persecution. This conduct is intolerable and cannot go unchallenged. In the interests of not only Paul Fox but also other young men who may fall foul of this Government, the Government's treatment of him must be exposed to the public. I believe that I have exhausted every avenue that is available to me in trying to obtain an answer to the simple question whether Paul Fox has an entitlement to have his application as a conscientious objector tested. 
Fox's legal representatives have written a number of letters to the Registrar of the Department of Labour and National Service, namely on 7th and 30th March. They wrote on 28th April the letter to which I referred first to the Registrar and then to the Minister asking for a reply to their request for a speedy hearing. These letters have never been acknowledged. I say again that I have been pursuing this matter since 17th April. In the meantime this young man has been languishing in that medieval institution called Pentridge Gaol, Coburg, for 10 weeks and 1 day. If and when this man's claim is tested what will happen if the court upholds it? What right of redress does he have for the time he has languished in that place to which they refer as Pentridge Gaol, Coburg? 
I believe that in view of the treatment to which Fox has been subjected 2 things should be done. Firstly, Fox's claim to be a conscientious objector should be tested at the earliest moment. Secondly, I believe that whatever date is fixed for the hearing Paul Fox should be given the opportunity to seek bail and the Commonwealth should not oppose bail so that he can be released from Pentridge Gaol, Coburg. I ask the Minister to impress upon the Minister for Labour and National Service in another place the sequence of events that have transpired to date in relation to this matter. I believe an injustice has been done, for whatever reason and whoever may be responsible. I think it can be said that the inordinate delay in answering the question I asked the Minister on 18th April is unjustified in the sense that 10 weeks and one day is not 2 or 3 weeks. Will the Minister ask the Minister for Labour and National Service to accede to the 2 requests that I have made this evening on behalf of Paul Fox? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that there is a growing opinion amongst doctors that the number of elderly people in the community is growing and that, with the exception of the new-born, illness occurs more frequently in the elderly than in any other group; if so, has the Commonwealth Government initiated any project designed to ascertain the need for future geriatric services. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The number of elderly people in the Commonwealth is increasing; at present there are approximately 1 million persons in Australia aged 65 years and over, and it is estimated that this figure will have reached 1.7 million by the end of the century. 
It is agreed that with the exception of the newborn, illness occurs more frequently in the elderly than in any other group. 
The Commonwealth has not initiated any project specifically designed to ascertain the need for future geriatric services. However, it should be noted that the planning and provision of such services is primarily a State responsibility. 
The Commonwealth has however introduced a number of programmes designed to assist and encourage the provision of services for the aged. These operate under the Aged Persons Homes Act, the State Grants (Home Care) Act, the States Grants (Paramedical Services) Act and the Delivered Meals Subsidy Act. 
I ask the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health whether he is aware that on the radio programme 'AM' this morning  Mr Russell, President  of the Pharmaceutical Guild of Australia, registered some concern about the projected intention of supermarkets to sell pharmaceutical products, particularly so far as it concerns the sale of analgesics. Is the Minister aware that  Mr Russell  said that Guild members had agreed some time ago that, in the interests of the public, analgesics should be sold under supervision? Will the Minister take whatever action is necessary to protect the public against the indiscriminate advertising and sale of analgesics by supermakets? 
I join my colleagues of the Australian Labor Party in opposing the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. I have the comforting knowledge that whereas the Government may have the numbers in this place we of the Opposition have the numbers outside in the Australian community. My colleagues already have referred to the organisations which have pronounced their unanimous opposition to the proposals contained in this amending Bill. They include the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations which represents some 34 organisations with 350,000 members. Many of those members also have wives who are eligible to vote. In addition, we have the traditional trade union movement led by its national organisation, the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The ACTU represents over one million people employed in industry. There are numerous people besides those, people outside those organisations, who may be describd as liberals - with a small T - and are progressively minded, and they also oppose the terms of this Bill. Then, of course, there is the official opposition, the Australian Labor Party. I think you will have to agree,  Mr President,  that the aggregate number constitutes a formidable opposition. 
I genuinely believe that this Bill is of such moment that it could very well be responsible for sounding the death knell of this Government - and not before time. I am conscious of the fact that the people I represent and with whom I have been associated for over 38 years must be very harshly affected as a consequence of this amending Bill, at least until the Australian community has the opportunity of exercising its democratic vote. I imagine that in view of the record of this Government, particularly in recent times, we can anticipate a change of Government at the end of this year. As my colleague  Senator Wheeldon  said in his closing remarks to the Senate, we of the Australian Labor Party are pledged to repeal not only the objectionable features that are so pronounced in this Bill but also those already in the Act which will be continued when this Bill is passed and the legislation is consolidated. 
 I propose to say this for the record: I think the Opposition is entitled to examine the second reading speech in detail and to criticise it because the motion before the Senate is 'That the Bill be now read a second time'. That being so, in my view the second reading speech is before the Senate for discussion. It is an important speech because, among other things, the Government seeks to justify the proposed amendment to the existing Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Apart from the justification there is also the announcement of the philosophy of the Government, then the salient features of the Bill and the various intimate details of the effects of the amending legislation. I take umbrage at the suggestion that at this time the Opposition is not entitled to debate the subject matter of the second reading speech. That is precisely what I intend to do. The Attorney-General stated: 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1972 contains the most significant amendments of the Act since 1947. 
Of course my colleague  Senator Donald  Cameron has pointed out that this is questionable having regard to the numerous and quite substantial amendments to the Bill which have occurred between 1947 and 1972. Nevertheless this is one of the most major reviews of the Bill in the last 25 years. I concede that. The AttorneyGeneral goes on to point out: 
This Bill is being brought down when our system of conciliation and arbitration has been undergoing severe strain against a background of increasing industrial unrest and serious wage-induced inflation. 
If honourable senators think that the Opposition does not have the right to challenge at least one of those suggestions which are put as justification for this Bill, then in effect they mean that there should not be an Opposition here. First of all I concede - it is understandable that I do concede this - that there has been increasing industrial unrest. But there is justification for it. We on this side of the chamber have said - I believe that we have been able to show this with facts and figures - that contrary to the opinion held by Government senators wages are responsible for the inflationary trends in the community, and it is our view, which we believe is based on sound reasoning, that wages are always chasing prices. I shall make two or three references to bring to the notice of the Government again the reasoning behind that statement. I have said before in this chamber, and I think it needs to be repeated, that up until 1953 in many ways we have a unique system of wage fixation. 
We had established what is referred to as a 'basic wage' as 1 of 2 components of the total wage. It operated reasonably successfully for from 30 to 40 years. I shall place on record the way in which it operated. The Commonwealth Statistician was obliged to review the movement in goods and services listed under the C Series index at the end of each 3-monthly quarter of the year. He had to ascertain whether there had been any movement, up or down in the C Series index and in the price of goods and services provided in that index. If the review by the Statistician showed that there had been an increase in prices this was reported and there was an automatic adjustment to the basic wage - the major component of the wage proper. In effect it meant that 3 months had to pass before an assessment could be made. The wage earner was always 3 months behind any movement which had taken place in prices. But in 1953 some serious suggestions were put by the then Treasurer who argued that he felt that one of the major factors contributing to increased prices in that day and age was the continuous adjustment to the basic wage. The court accepted that view in due course and it abolished the quarterly adjustment to the basic wage. 
Then we had to rely on an annual review. This meant that the average worker instead of being 3 months behind the price increase was 12 months behind. In recent times, inflation being what it is, there has been a much more rapid increase in wages than there has been in the past. This has only been as a consequence of the dedication shown by the trade union movement which endeavoured to bridge the gap between what one may describe as the nominal wage' and the 'real wage' - that is the purchasing value of the wage consistent with the cost of goods and services by which one lives. I shall briefly refer to an article which appeared in the Sydney 'Sun Herald' of 6th February 1972. It appears at page 57. The caption is: 
Never before has the man in the street lost so much of his take-home pay in inflation. Here's why your money buys less. 
The article is by  Mr Merv  Lincoln, lecturer in business administration at the University of Melbourne. The article reads: 
In 1971 the average Australian received his biggest increase in take-home pay. At the beginning of the year he was earning $81.90; at the end, about $91.90, an increase of 12.2 per cent. 
His previous biggest increase in any one year was around 8 per cent, in 1969 and 1970. However, never before has the man in the street lost so much of his take-home pay to inflation. In 1971 the cost of living increased 7 per cent, far in excess of the previous high for 15 years, of 4.7 per cent in 1970. This, in effect, left him with a real gain of 5.2 per cent (12.2 per cent less 7 per cent), but still a fairly impressive gain by previous years. 
The following paragraph reads as follows: 
 Mr President,  I gave notice this afternoon at about 3 o'clock to the secretary to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  that I proposed to raise a matter in respect to  Mr Paul  Fox. I am delighted to inform the Senate that in the Melbourne Magistrate's Court today at 2 p.m.  Mr Thompson,  S.M., upheld the claim of  Mr Paul  Fox that he was a conscientious objector. This claim took 12 weeks to be determined. In the meantime  Mr Paul  Fox languished in gaol, I demand of the Attorney-General, as a matter of justice, that he use every means at his disposal to have Paul Fox released from gaol forthwith. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether there is any substance in the report that his Department is involved in moves to oppose sections of the new agreement recently concluded between the Waterside Workers Federation and waterfront employers. If so, what sections of the agreement does the Government propose to oppose? 
The clause before the Committee at the moment is clause 2. It provides the time at which this legislation will become operative after it has passed through both Houses. I object to the amendment which has been moved by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  and the way in which it was moved but what concerns me is the multiplicity of reasons that have been given by the Attorney-General to justify the introduction of this amendment at 3.54 p.m. on Friday afternoon last. It is pertinent to direct the Senate's attention to comments made by the Attorney-General on page 2211 of Hansard. In moving the amendment he said: 
As a result of the decision which has been taken it is apparent that this Bill will be sent back to the House of Representatives as a Bill to be amended. That eventuality, although it was always possible, could not really be anticipated until it had occurred. It has now occurred. Accordingly, it is desired to amend clause 2. 
Then he proceeded to move the amendment which in part said: 
Sections 51 and 68 of this Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on twenty-sixth day of May, One thousand nine hundred and seventytwo. 
I am not quite sure what he means unless it is that the Opposition, overwhelmingly supported by the Senate generally, opposed clause 12 which dealt with section 16 of the principal Act relating to the salary of commissioners. I ask the Attorney-General: Was that the reason and the justification for moving his amendment when he did? The Attorney-General went on to say on page 2211 of Hansard, and this puzzles me: 
The 26th day of May is, of course, today. The matters covered by sections 51 and 68 are the new amalgamation proceedings. These matters were not mentioned in the statement that was made in December by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  but they were raised in the speech which was delivered by the Minister in the House of Representatives on 26th April. It was intended with regard to amalgamations occurring after that date- 
And I presume he means 26th April- 
. that the new provisions would apply, and it is intended to ensure that they do apply as from 26th May, which is today. 
Any reasonable person could be expected to conclude from what was said by the Attorney-General in that short statement that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  in his speech delivered on 26th April implied or inferred or indicated in some shape or form that the intention was that sections 51 and 68 should have an operative date, namely, 26th May 1972. If the Attorney-General means something different, I ask him to explain to me in due course what he means. 
 It implies it quite strongly and in due course I would like the Attorney-General to advise the Senate of what he meant. I checked through the second reading speech of the Minister for Labour and National Service and also went to the extent of checking the report of the Committee stage of this Bill in Hansard, particularly in relation to Part VIIIA which deals with amalgamations of organisations, and I could find no reference by the Minister to the effect that a date would be determined in the course of the debate on this Bill. In other words, he was intending to rely on the ordinary processes for the handling of this type of Bill and on the 
Bill ultimately being proclaimed in the ordinary course of events. However, leaving that aside, on page 2211 of ' Hansard the Attorney-General is repotted as having said: 
Any valid requests made prior to 26th May will come into operation in the language of section 68 on (he basis of the pre-existing  provisions. But  any attempts or desires to have amalgamation hereafter will come into effect after 26th May. It was asked: Why is the amendment moved? We on this side have heard rumours- 
I know this was raised by my colleagues during the debate last Friday afternoon, but not one of the questions asked by the Opposition has been answered effectively to date. Then the Attorney-General went on to suggest that it was because the Opposition had been filibustering. This has been consistently refuted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  On page 2212 of Hansard the Attorney-General had this to say: 
I can only say that if it is not desired that I should explain the reasons because the explanation of the reasons gives offence to  honourable  senators I am afraid they will be looking elsewhere for an explanation. 
Quite frankly, in my view we are still seeking an explanation or any real justification for the Attorney-General moving this amendment after the Bill had passed through the other House and there had been no suggestion by any manner of means by the Minister for Labour and National Service that he would rely on other than the ordinary course of proclamation of this Bill for it to come into effect and for the provisions of the Bill to have legal effect. There was no reference to this amendment then by the Minister. But late last Friday afternoon the AttorneyGeneral gave 2 reasons - probably 3 or 4- which could be held to be justification for the moving of this amendment. I say without hesitation that the AttorneyGeneral has not justified the moving . of the amendment to date and until such time as he does the Opposition is entitled to continue to ask him for the real motivation behind the amendment. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Is the reported statement by the Commonwealth Police Commissioner,  Mr Jack  Davis, that a Stipendiary Magistrate refused to issue a warrant to police informing them that they possessed ample power to arrest an offender, true; if so, will the Attorney-General inform the Senate of (a) the name of the Magistrate and (b) the grounds upon which the issue of a warrant was refused. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 

 Mr W. F. Cuthill, Chief Stipendiary Magistrate, Magistrates Court, Melbourne. 
When application was made, at the offices of the Magistrates Court Melbourne for the issue of warrants of arrest in respect of five persons who were alleged to have committed offences against section 51 (1.) of the National Service Act,  Mr Cuthill  declined to issue warrants as he considered that the police had ample powers of arrest under section 8a of the Commonwealth Crimes Act. That section provides: 
Any constable may, without warrant, arrest any person if the constable has reasonable grounds to believe - 
that the person has committed an offence against a law of the Commonwealth or of a Territory; and 
that proceedings against the person by summons would not be effective.' 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. On 27th April I asked him to inform me by letter (a) when the Department of Labour and National Service requested advice from his Department in relation to the conscientious objection application by Paul Fox and (b) when the Attorney-General's Department furnished the advice sought by the Department of Labour and National Service. The Minister agreed to my request. I have not received any letter to date. I now ask the Minister whether he will let me have the information at the earliest opportunity and, further, whether he will cite the section' or sections of the Act which required his Department's attention. 
1 ask the AttorneyGeneral: Was his Department charged with the responsibility of preparing opposition to sections of the agreement recently reached between the Waterside Workers Federation and waterfront employers? Is it not a fact that this new agreement for improved rates of pay and physical conditions of employment on the waterfront was concluded to the mutual satisfaction of both parties after months of patient and painstaking negotiations? I also ask the Attorney-General whether he is aware that unionists endorsed this agreement in a secret ballot. Finally, does he recognise that the attempt to interfere with such an agreement is a provocative and unwarranted action by the Government and that any consequential action by either or both parties to the agreement to sustain the terms of the agreement is the responsibility of the Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many National Servicemen have applied for assistance under the National Service Vocational Training Scheme, and how many have (a) been granted assistance and (b) been refused assistance and, in the case of refusal, for what reasons. 
What professions and trades were involved in regard to persons given assistance under the Scheme, and what period of training was approved on a full-time or part-time basis in each case. 
What are the present rates of (a) living allowances and (b) travelling expenses paid under the Scheme, and under what circumstances are they payable. 
What was the total cost of the Scheme to 30th June 1971. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN - The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
At 30th June 1971 9,423 applications for training under the National Service Vocational Training Scheme had been lodged. Of these 7,356 were approved; 734 were declined; 534 had not been decided and 799 were withdrawn or lapsed. Applications were refused on the following grounds: 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service the following question upon notice: 
What was the total number of waterside workers employed in all Australian ports for each year during the period 1960 to 1971 inclusive. 
What was the total tonnage of cargo handled in all Australian ports for each year during the period 1960 to 1971 inclusive. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Labour and National Service has provided me with the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The number of registered waterside workers at the 30th June each year from 1960 to 1971 was as follows: 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many scholarships were awarded to students at (a) State, and (b) private schools in which students sat for examinations in the State of Victoria during the years 1970 and 1971. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that  Mr Russell, President  of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia, has registered some concern about the intention of supermarket to sell pharmaceutical products, and particularly analgesics. 
Is the Minister also aware that  Mr Russell  said Guild members had agreed some time ago that analgesics should be sold under supervision in the interest of the public. 
Will the Minister take whatever action is necessary to protect the public against the indiscriminate advertising and sale of analgesics by supermarkets. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Acting Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) I understand that  Mr Russell  has made statements on these matters. 
The legislative authority concerning such matters rests with the Slates primarily. However, 1 should mention thatthe National Health and Medical Research Council, which is an advisory body to the Commonwealth and the States, is considering submissions relating to this matter which have been made by certain organisations including the Pharmacy Guild of Australia. 
Thank you,  Mr President,  for your remarks. I appreciated very much the numerous letters, telegrams and 'get well' cards  I  received from members on both sides of the House. 1 also appreciated the interest which you,  Mr President,  showed in my state of health. My question is directed to the AttorneyGeneral. Before asking my question I say at the outset that I acknowledge and respect the numerous rulings which you,  Mr President,  have given during question time. Although I am confident that the format of my question is not inconsistent with the requirements of the appropriate standing order, I beg your indulgence because it is essential for me to preface my question with what you may consider to be a rather lengthy preamble. 1 remind the AttorneyGeneral of a question I asked on 27th April 1972 in the following terms: 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he has formulated any opinion on the application by  Mr Paul  Fox under section 29A of the National Service Act 1951, as amended, which was referred to his Department by the Minister for Labour and National Service? If he has not I ask him whether he is aware that it is over 7 weeks since the original application was sent to the Director of Labour and National Service in Melbourne? When did the Minister's Department receive the referred matter for advice? Will the Minister expedite the advice sought by his colleague in another place? 
I will quote part of the Minister's answer. He said: 
I am unable  to give the precise dates  la reponse to the honourable senator's question. It is a fact that advice was sought from my Department and that that advice was given to he Department of Labour and National Service some time ago. 
I asked a supplementary question on the same day which appears on page 1367 of Hansard. My question read: 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he will be good enough to supply to me by letter answers to the specific details sought in the question I asked previously. 
Will he also inform me in that communication the date on which the advice sought by his colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service in another place was furnished to the Minister? 
The answer by the Attorney-General is a definite 'yes*. On a further occasion, approximately one month later, on 3 1st May 1972, at page 231 1 of the Hansard record, 1 raised the same matter. I asked a question in these terms: 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. On 27th April I asked him to inform me by letter (a) when the Department of Labour and National Service requested advice f.om his Department in relation to the conscientious objection application by Paul Fox and (b) when the Attorney-General's Department furnished the advice sought by the Department of Labour and National Service requested advice from his request. 1 have not received any letter to date. 1 now ask the Minister whether he will let me have the information at the earliest opportunity and, further whether he will cite the section or sections of the Act which required his Department's attention. 
Briefly, the Attorney-General said: 
I am sorry that the honourable senator has not received a reply from me. I will have a look into the matter and see what stage it has reached within my Department. 
Today, unless something has been lost in the Postal Department, I have still received no reply. As it is now 5 months since he undertook to provide me in letter form with information I have sought, I ask the Attorney:General why he has failed to honour that undertaking. Further, will he now guarantee to furnish me with the information I have asked for in the course of the next week? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. Will the Minister give urgent consideration to an appropriate amendment to the Social Services Act which will enable an applicant who has been refused social service benefits, including unemployment benefits, to have ready access to an appeal tribunal before whom the applicant can contest unfavourable decisions made by any officer of the Department, including the DirectorGeneral? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Would the issue of passports by a person or persons or an organisation in Australia other than the appropriate department be a breach of Commonwealth law? If the Minister agrees that such conduct is a breach of Commonwealth law, what action has been taken against the person whom I have cited in correspondence to the Attorney-General, which person is said to be the person from whom such passports are available? j 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Air. Is it a fact that the Mirage fighters being used by the Royal Australian Air Force have a high equipment and spare parts usage turnover? Is it also a fact that major servicing of equipment critical to the airworthness of the Mirage fighters must be returned to France for servicing? Does the Minister agree that because of the high usage of spare parts of Mirage fighters the fighter arm of the RAAF could be grounded within 6 months if France cut off supplies? Finally, I ask: Is the Government reluctant to impose worthwhile sanctions on French Government as a protest against the declared intention of that Government to conduct further nuclear testing in the Pacific region, because of the fear of French reaction which the Israeli Government experienced in 1967? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. I ask: Will the Minister inform the Senate of the number of totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners and their wives, who as a consequence of the recent Budget have been deprived of pensioner medical service cards, fare concession cards, pharmaceutical prescription concessions, local government rate concessions in some localities, andlike fringe benefits? Because I have had the question asked of me, I ask the Minister: What is the attitude of the Government to a TPI pensioner who wishes to refuse the recent pension increase so as to enable him to retain the numerous fringe benefits for himself, and for his wife in particular? 
My question, which is a genuine question without notice, is directed to the Minister for Supply. Has the French Government either purchased or offered to purchase 200 Turana drone aircraft worth some $30,000 each? Further, has the French Government also offered to purchase an unspecified number of Project N aircraft, now known as the Nomad, at approximately $250.000m each? 
My . question is directed to the Minister' representing the Minister for Social Services. Is it the intention of the Government to close the 2 Commonwealth rehabilitation centres in Victoria, one being Maryport at Mount Eliza and the other Coonac in Toorak? Ff it is, what are the reasons for this decision? Further, what provision has been made to replace these 2 centres to cater not only for those who are currently receiving assistance there but also for the additional numbers who have been on waiting lists for many months? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior whether he will encourage the Minister for the Interior to support the application which is before the Public Service Arbitrator for a 20 per cent salary increase to secretaries of senators and members of the House of Representatives who are paid a deplorably low salary having regard to the nature of their work and the responsibilities imposed on them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Will the Minister give urgent consideration to amending the Social Services Act, so as to enable an applicant who has been refused social service benefits, including unemployment benefits, to have ready access to an appeals tribunal to consider unfavourable decisions by any officer of the Department, including the Director-General. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The Minister for Social Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In December last year the Government announced the appointment of a Committee (of which  Sir Henry  Bland is  Chairman)  to examine administrative discretions under Commonwealth statutes and regulations and to advise the Government of the particular circumstances in which a review of administrative decisions on the merits should be provided. The Government appointed the Committee following the report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee which was tabled by the Prime Minister on 14th October last year. 
The Bland Committee's terms of reference require that it should determine whether some review should be provided in respect of administrative decisions taken under discretionary powers conferred by legislation in the administration of the Department of Social Services. When the Committee's report has been received and is under consideration this matter will receive attention. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
What number of totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners and their wives, as a consequence of the recent Budget decisions, have been deprived of pensioner medical service cards, fare concession cards, pharmaceutical prescription concessions and in some localities local government rate concessions and similar fringe benefits. 
What right does a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner have to refuse the recent pension increases, so as to enable him to retain the range of fringe benefits formerly available to his wife. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Repatriation has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is estimated that 3,250 TPI war pensioners who also receive a service pension lost eligibility for pensioner medical service benefits because of the recent Budget increase in the TPI rate. An estimated additional 750 Social Service pension couples in receipt of T &amp; PI pension lost their eligibility for Commonwealth fringe benefits. The TPI pensioners themselves, however, have retained eligibility for all the other Commonwealth benefits they were entitled to as TPI pensioners viz., free medical treatment including hospitalisation at Repatriation expense for all conditions whether war related or otherwise, sales tax exemption on the purchase of new motor cars, radio and TV licence and telephone rental concessions. 
These T &amp; PI pensioners previously had a dual eligibility for these benefits, firstly because of their T &amp; PI classification and secondly, as means test pensioners and, in addition, they and their dependants qualified for medical and pharmaceutical benefits under the Pensioner Medical Scheme. The increase in the TPI rate has now raised the income of this group over 'the limit which disqualifies any member of the community from participating in the scheme. 
The question of fare and rate concessions is a matter for the various local authorities concerned. Eligibility varies from State to State and within States and in some areas possession of a Pensioner Medical Service card is the criterion for the concession. No figures are available which would indicate the number who may have lost these concessions because of the increase in the TPI rate. 
Repatriation and Social Service legislation both contain provisions which, in effect, prevent the circumvention of the means test by deprivation of income or property (war pension is income for means test purposes). To relinquish income in order to retain Pensioner Medical Service benefits would constitute deprivation and any pensioner taking this step would remain ineligible. 
asked the Minister for 
Air, upon notice: 
Do the Mirage fighter aircraft used by the Royal Australian Air Force have a high equipment and spare parts usage turnover. 
Does the major servicing of equipment, critical to the airworthiness of the Mirage aircraft, have to be carried out in France. 
Would the fighter arm of the Royal Australian Air Force be grounded within 6 months if France were to cut off supplies for the Mirage aircraft. 
Is the Government reluctant to impose effectiveness sanctions against the French Government as a protest against that Government's declared intention to conduct further nuclear tests in the Pacific Ocean region because of the fear of an adverse French reaction, similar to that experienced by the Government of Israel in 1967. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
In comparison with other aircraft currently in service with the Royal Australian Air Force, and taking into account the relative complexities of the various aircraft types, it would not be correct to qualify the Mirage aircraft as having a high equipment and spare parts turnover 
No 
No. 
The question of imposition of sanctions against the French Government has been previously discussed in the Parliament and the Gov ernment's view on this matter has been made clear. (See, for example, Hansard, House of Representatives of 16th August 1972, pages 214-215). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Did the Government of France purchase, or offer to purchase from the Commonwealth, 200 Turana drone aircraft, worth $30,000 for each unit. 
Did the Government of France also offer to purchase from the Commonwealth an unspecified number of Project N aircraft, named the Nomad at a cost of about $250,000 for each unit. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Supply has provided the following information in answer to the honourable senator's question: . 
In accordance with current practice, reciprocal purchasing opportunities are sought when important defence items are to be purchased from overseas. As an offset to the purchase of certain French equipment, the French offered to buy the Australian Turana target drone but the French equipment was not selected by Australia. 
The French have not offered to purchase the Australian Nomad aircraft. The Nomad was displayed in France during its recent overseas tour, and the performance of the aircraft aroused considerable interest. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has he been able to establish a firm final cost for the purchase of the 24 Fill fighter aircraft on order? If not, and having regard to the astronomical contract price increase over the last 10 years, are there any provisions in the contract of sale which would enable the Government to renegotiate the purchase price of these aircraft on a more realistic basis? 
At the outset I Indicate that I strongly oppose the proposal which has been submitted to the Senate by  Senator Greenwood  that the Senate disapprove a number of Determinations  made under the Public Service Arbitration Act. The Senate's action in disapproving ' those Determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator would have the effect of denying an additional one week's annual leave to many thousands of members of the Public Service. Whilst I take  the debate on the proposal quite seriously, because of the implications of  Senator Greenwood's  proposal, I find it very difficult to take seriously the honourable senator's motion, proposed on behalf of the Opposition, and also what has been said by the Opposition on it. 1 say that because my colleague, the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  recited by chapter and verse something of the conduct and performance of  Senator Greenwood  when he was Attorney-General in the former government. In the course of his tenure of that office  Senator Greenwood  displayed an aversion to trade unions generally and to trade union officials in particular. 
The granting of preference to unionists, which is what this is all about, is not an innovation. It is not a new thing. My colleague, the Minister for Repatriation, had incorporated in Hansard a schedule of awards making provision for preference to unionists. That schedule, which took up over 2 pages of Hansard in close type,, appears at pages 116, 117 and 118. 1 repeat that what we are projecting in the course of the proposal to grant 4 weeks annual leave to those who are members of claimant organisations is not an innovation. I took the opportunity of checking some of the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitration Reports, presented over the years, and I found something of interest in volume 36 of 1956 entitled Determinations made and interpretations given pursuant to the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1955' over the signature of the then Attorney-General,  Senator the Hon.  N. O'sullivan. I remind the Senate that this occurred in the course of the life of a government which was of the same political character as are the parties which we now see in opposition. Paragraph 35 on page 589 of volume 36. under the heading 'Application of Determination', states: 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this determination the Commissioner shall not be obliged to grant to an employee who is not a financial member of the claimant organisation covering his calling any of the benefits, prescribed by clauses 18, 19 and 20 of this determination.  1 was reliably informed by the source from which I obtained this information that the Public Service Arbitrator has consistently over the years drawn awards and determinations which have restricted the benefits which have been obtained by claimant organisations to the members of those organisations. 
It was, to say the least, a novel experience last Thursday to see  Senator Greenwood,  who, as I have said, has in the past displayed such hostility towards unions, present himself as the champion of the workers cause. That is a little hard for honourable senators on this side of the House to accept. I regard the Opposition's proposal as, to say the least, political humbug. I am not sure whether, as a consequence of his Party's defeat in the last House of Representatives election,  Senator Greenwood  - I regret that he has left the chamber - has been chastened, which I doubt; but it is interesting to note that he now claims that he is concerned about personal freedom and freedom of the individual to make decisions. I direct the attention of honourable senators to page 111 of Hansard of 1st March 1973. Among other things,  Senator Greenwood  is reported as having said: 
To say that  a  person shall receive  4  weeks leave only if he is a member of  a  union is to deny to a person an essential freedom. 
He went on to say: 
There have to be over-riding considerations of public utility to break down the rule that a person should have a freedom to decide whether he shall join an organisation. The practical effect of what has been done is that if a person does not join he will be denied an extra week's leave. 
I wonder what those young men who were subjected to the administration of the National Service Act by  Senator Greenwood,  as Attorney-General, would have to say about that. As Attorney-General he pursued the Act with such zeal that he persecuted, prosecuted and jailed young men who had the temerity to exercise the freedom he now suggests ought to be available to all and sundry. We, of course, believe in this freedom, but we also say at the same time that we believe a person is entitled to make a contribution to an organisation which obtains benefits for him.  Senator Greenwood  went on to use some rather extravagant language. At page 1 1 1 of Hansard he is also reported as having said: 
What is being done is a form of economic blackmail and coercion. 
Those are strong words indeed. All we are talking about is preference to unionists, which is not a new thing. It is as old as the industrial movement itself and it has been accepted and acknowledged by responsible authorities and tribunals throughout the years. To compare  Senator Greenwood's  conduct in the former Government, particularly when he was Minister for Health, let me refer briefly to sections of the National Health Act. I do so because I believe that it will point up the double standards that  Senator Greenwood  is adopting in pretending to be the champion of the workers cause. He has referred to the right of the individual to decide whether he will belong to an organisation. He has referred also to compulsion, blackmail and coercion. When  Senator Greenwood  was Minister for Health in the former Government he had the responsibility of administering the National Health Act. 1 refer to section 13 of Part III of the National Health Act which deals with medical benefits and relates to the interpretation of some of the terms used in the Act. It states: 
Commonwealth benefit' means a benefit payable by the Commonwealth under this Fart in respect of a professional service rendered to a contributor and includes a payment under section 25 of this Act. 
Contributor' is defined as being a taxpayer who is obliged under the Act to belong to one of the fund organisations. It is true that a contributor could use his option and that he could either belong or not belong, but if he did not belong he did not enjoy the benefit of the contribution made by the Commonwealth Government. I refer again to the interpretation of 'contributor' in the same section of the Act. The Act states: 
Contributor' means a person who pays contributions, or on whose behalf contributions are paid, to the medical benefits fund conducted by a registered medical benefits organisation . . . 
Fund benefit' is defined as meaning:  the amount, other than in respect of Commonwealth benefit, paid or payable under the rules of a registered medical benefits organisation in respect of medical expenses incurred by a person who pays contributions to the medical benefits fund . . . 
Section 13 then briefly interprets the meaning of 'medical benefits fund'. It states: medical benefits fund' means a fund conducted by an organisation under the rules of which benefits are provided to contributors to the fund, being benefits consisting of payments in respect of medical expenses incurred by those contributors or their dependants or consisting of the provision of "professional services under a contract arrangement for those contributors or their dependants, or both. 
Section 13 of the National Health Act simply says what we are saying in respect to the application of 4 weeks annual leave to public servants. The former Government, in which  Senator Greenwood,  was the then Minister for Health, was saying that one was obliged it is true to say that it is voluntary to belong to a fund if, firstly, one wanted to derive the benefit of receiving the amount that is payable by the fund and secondly, the subsidy that is payable by the Commonwealth to the fund. But, first of all, one is compulsory obliged to belong to a fund organisation. I refer to a further section of the Act. Itis Part III, section 14(2). Sub-section (2.) highlights in clear and unequivocal terms the point which I am making. It states: 
If, on the date on which the professional service was rendered, any contributions due and payable to the organisation in respect of the contributor had not been paid- in other words, if he were not financial at the time when he received the professional service - and, by reason of the non-payment, the organisation was entitled to refuse payment of fund benefits in respect of medical services rendered to the contributor, Commonwealth benefit is not payable in respect of the professional service unless - 
a fund benefit is paid by the organisation in respect of the professional service. 
The sub-section makes it quite clear that not only must a person belong to a fund organisation to be entitled to the benefit of the Commonwealth subsidy but he must be financial as at the date on which the professional service was rendered to him. If he was not and if the fund organisation was entitled to refuse payment of a benefit, the Commonwealth automatically refuses to pay its subsidy. 
To a large extent, the same principle applies in respect of hospital benefits. That principle is contained in Part V of the Act. I will refer only briefly to it. It is Division 3, Part V, section 46 (1.). This section refers to hospital treatment. It states: 
Where a contributor receives hospital treatment in an approved hospital, there is payable, subject to this Part, Commonwealth benefit of $2 for each day on which the contributor is a qualified hospital patient. 
That sub-section contains 2 qualifications. The first is that the person has to be a contributor and that he has to be financial as at the time he received the service. The second is that he has to be a patient in a qualified hospital. The section goes on briefly to deal with 2 different types of beneficiaries under the so-called voluntary, non-compulsory national health scheme. I refer to section 46 (2.) of Division 3. It states: 
Where hospital fund benefit is not payable in respect of a day on which a contributor is a qualified hospital patient - 
for the reason that all contributions due and owing by the contributor to the organisation have not been paid; or 
for a reason other than the reason specified in the last preceding paragraph, if payment of the benefit could have been refused for the reason so specified, the amount of Commonwealth benefit per day is 80c instead of  $2. 
Under the hospital benefit scheme there was some modification of the stringent measures applicable to the entitlement of medical benefits inasmuch as if a person was not a member of an organisation or if his contributions were still outstanding at the time that he was hospitalised and if the benefit fund refused to pay him benefit because of those specified reasons, the Commonwealth Government, out of taxation which is payable by all workers, reduced the payment from $2 a day to 80c a day. 
I make a final reference to the Act because it fortifies what I have said. I refer to section 48 (1.). It states: 
Where a contributor receives hospital treatment in an approved hospital before he became a contributor or in the period of 2 months commencing on the day on which he became a contributor and, under the rules of the registered hospital benefits organisation to the fund of which he is a contributor, no hospital fund benefit or an amount of hospital benefit of less than $1.65 per day is paid by the organisation in respect of the days in that period on which he is a qualified hospital patient, the amount of Commonwealth benefit per day is 80c instead of $2. 
If a person were hospitalised in an approved hospital either before he joined the fund organisation or 2 months after joining it and if the registered rules of the fund benefit organisation prescribe that no fund benefit is payable or that the amount of hospital fund benefit of less than $1.65 per day is payable by the organisation, the Commonwealth grants the handsome amount of 80c a day. When one considers the objections that have been voiced by  Senator Greenwood  to the proposal - which I support wholeheartedly - for a form of preference to people who make a contribution to an organisation which obtains benefit for them and when one compares what he, as the Minister for Health, said in relation to the National Health Act and what he said, as Attorney-General, in relation to the National Service Act one can see the point which I made earlier in my speech, that is, that it is very difficult to take seriously the Opposition's quest to present itself as the champion of the worker because it strikes me, as I said earlier, as being out and out humbug. 
I make a passing reference to another contribution that was made. I think it was one of the most crude and nauseating contributions that I have heard made by any senator. The honourable senator represents the section on my half right. That is the appropriate political orientation of the honourable senator and it is the position in which he is located in the chamber. Since 1955 he has consistently opposed worthwhile reforms which were suggested by the then Opposition, which is now the Government, and which would have enabled the trade union movement to breathe more freely and to obtain improved physical conditions of employment and improved standards of living for its members. He had the temerity, in my view, to lambast, in one of the crudest speeches I have heard in this chamber, trade union secretaries and officers of trade unions.  His  speech was nauseating to me. The only conclusion that I can draw is that perhaps the material that this gentleman displays on the shelves in his newsagency, which material he must peruse occasionally, has affected him. That is the way his speech came through to me. 
I have heard it said that some people claim that pornography tends to deprave the mind. I have an idea that that has happened to the gentleman on my half right. He was an erstwhile Labor man and a former officer of a trade union, but I have not heard him once attack the profession of the gentleman who moved the motion which the honourable senator supported so strongly. I have not heard the honourable senator attack that profession and gentlemen of that profession who are dealt with for embezzling clients funds, which are held in trust accounts. I have not heard him attack major employer organisations which have allowed their funds to be denuded  to  such an extent that the organisations have gone into bankruptcy, thus denying workers their just entitlements for work already done - annual leave, sick leave and long service leave entitlements. I have not heard him utter one word against such organisations. It is a poor show indeed for one who has served the Labor movement to engage in attacks on an organisation of which he knows better. I do not claim the organisation is any better or any worse than other sections of the community, but why should he be so selective and single it out as he does repeatedly? 
I think I have dealt sufficiently with what the honourable senator said, except  to  point out that his temerity and audacity  to  suggest that he would introduce a Bill which would give 4 weeks annual leave to public servants is nothing more than political humbug. The Democratic Labor Party supported the former government, which constantly and right up till the last general election, opposed every attempt to secure 4 weeks annual leave not only by public servants but also by all other organised workers in Australia before various tribunals. Let us get the record straight.  Senator Little  cannot play a double game in this place. He has played it for too long. I am sure that people will see him and his Party for what they are. The DLP has lived like a parasite off a political party which is no longer in government. Now it has problems because it has to live with the changed fortunes of that party. 
I felt obliged to say that because there is nothing worse than seeing people act in the manner in which some people act in this chamber. All we are saying is that thousands upon thousands of public servants have contributed to their organisations. Down through the years they have expended time, energy and a great amount of money in endeavouring to improve the conditions - both physical and financial - of those employed in the Public Service. I do not think it is unreasonable to say that any decent person - I use that term deliberately - would object to paying for a service and a benefit which a union obtains. I understand that in recent weeks because of what has been decided by the Arbitrator and particularly since the instructions issued by the Public Service Board there has been quite a substantial increase in the membership of the various claimant organisations. That is good. I hope it continues to be so. In my view and in the Government's view it would be wrong for this chamber to deny a benefit to those persons who over the years have contributed to and assisted their organisations progressively to improve their standard of living and working conditions. I cannot see how the Opposition can justify this motion because some few people as employees have not recognised their responsibilities to their claimant organisations and paid their contributions. 
If this argument were carried to its illogical conclusion it would mean that although one received a service from the Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works one should not have to pay one's rates each year. One pays one's rates because of the service one receives. I regret that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood)  is not in the chamber; he has exercised his option to stay or go. I presume that if he were to attend a social function with some friends one evening and it was necessary to use a taxi he would expect to pay his part of the fare because he has received a service in the use of that con veyance. There is nothing more or less to this proposition. I hope that those who are members of claimant organisations are entitled to receive a benefit which they achieve over and above their colleagues who are not of the same mind.  Senator Greenwood  talks about economic blackmail and coercion. What greater coercion can there be than that which I read from the National Health Act, if it is a matter of comparing one with the other. Nobody acknowledges more than I the benefit of an additional week's annual leave for those employed in any industry, including of course the Public Service. But if it were a matter of selecting one or the other I am sure that everyone in this chamber would agree that access to assistance from the Commonwealth Government, to which all taxpayers pay, for hospital and medical costs would be paramount. It would be over and above even a week's annual leave in industry. Yet this Opposition, the former government, suggested that it was a voluntary health scheme. It has been shown for what it really was. It was a compulsory health scheme because if one did not make a contribution one did not derive a benefit. This is a simple proposition of ours and one for which we make no apology. I sincerely hope that the Senate will recast its thinking on this matter. It appears that some arrangement has been entered into between the various Opposition groupings. We have 3 or 4 now as distinct from what we used to have. I sincerely ask honourable senators opposite to reconsider the implications of what it is attempting to do because if a Bill is brought into this chamber and carried it still has to go back to the other House to be dealt with. 
 The honourable senator has an advantage because 1 do not know. I think I know what will happen. 
 That is not correct but the statement is characteristic of the sort of thing to which we have become accustomed from that corner. The Government opposes very strongly any attempt to delay or deny this improved benefit to those persons who have made a contribution towards it over the years. Other people who are of a different mind have an option to exercise. This scheme of arrangement is as free and non-compulsory as the National Health Act was under the former government. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is it a fact that following discussions in mid-December 1972 between the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer,  and the Federal Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  the new Labor Government promised the Victorian Government grants totalling $13.5m over the next 6 months for unemployment relief in both the metropolitan and country districts? Was a special grant of $250,000 promised for East Gippsland to provide part-time employment for farmers affected by the severe drought in that area? Did the Commonwealth Government attach any conditions to this grant and from what date was it available? Finally, has the Commonwealth Government received any request from the Victorian Government as to when and how it wants this special grant of $250,000 made available? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. It is a fact that last week a full bench of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission approved in principle an application by the Federated Clerks Union for a new preference clause in the Clerks' (Oil Companies) Federal Award? Does this full bench decision mean that members of the Clerks' Union will get preference on, firstly, engagement by oil companies; secondly - -Stj dealing with engagement and employment by oil companies - promotion; thirdly, retrenchment - meaning that non-unionists will be the first to go- and, finally, choice of holiday dates? 
I only wish that the proceedings of the Senate were being broadcast this evening so that the young men and women in Victoria, particularly those between the ages of 18 and 20, could have heard the address delivered by  Senator Greenwood  tonight. 
I am sorry; I mean  Senator Webster.  I can be forgiven for being confused because they are both of the one ilk and tend to mouth the self-same attitudes. First of all, I want to give the lie. direct to the claim that was made by  Senator Webster  in the earlier part of his address. He claimed that the present Prime Minister - the Leader of the Australian Labor Party - dishonoured an election promise. The promise which the honourable senator suggested the Leader made was that a Labor Government would give a bonus of between $50 and $100 to all pensioners. The honourable senator had an opportunity to read the Prime Minister's policy speech if he wanted to, but of course he did not want to do so. I wish to quote directly from it. The undertaking given by the Prime Minister is as follows: 
The basic pension rate will no longer be lied lo the Financial and political considerations of annual Budgets. All pensions will be immediately raised by $1.50 and thereafter, every Spring and every Autumn, the basic pension rate will be raised by, $1.50 until it reaches 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. 
I underline the next sentence:  lt will never be allowed to fall below that level. 
It will not while Labor is in government. That is the only undertaking that the Labor Party gave to the pensioners of this country as regards the. relationship between what they receive and the identifiable common denominator to which it could be related - 'namely, average weekly earnings. So much for the honourable senator's first observation. 

 Senator Webster then asked where the money is coming from. 1 have heard this question asked often. I regret that the honourable senator cannot stay and hear a reply to his remarks, but I intend to reply to them anyway. The honourable senator represents the same element which yesteryear suggested that because it was proposed that a woman who had children should receive child endowment she would sell her body to obtain child endowment. That is the sort of conservative element which the honourable senator represents - the self-same sort of person who said that it was impossible for this country to have a 40-hour week; the self-same sort of person who suggested that this country could not provide 4 weeks annual leave for ordinary day workers and 5 weeks annual leave for those who work shift work; and one could go on ad infinitum. The time is never opportune, according to people like  Senator Webster.  If honourable senators opposite had had their way the people of this country would still be working 60 hours a week for a mere pittance. 

 Senator Webster then went on to suggest that we should compare pension rates in Australia with those in the United Kingdom or New Zealand. What has the situation in those countries got to do with what we are dealing with this evening. It is as sensible to suggest that we make that comparison as it was for the previous Government to suggest that we should compare the unemployment rate in Australia with that of other countries. We say now in government as we did then in opposition that we are concerned about people and not statistics. Referring to the honourable senator's question about where the money is coming from, the honourable senator would know as well as 1 do that over the last 8 or 9 years the average rate of increase in Consolidated Revenue, drawn from direct and indirect taxation as well as other sources, has been between $600m and $800m per annum, without any alterations to the taxation schedules whatsoever. So during the life of this Parliament one can anticipate a minimum increase in Consolidated Revenue in the vicinity of $3 ,000m. 
Of course, we will not be engaging in the extravagant adventures in which the previous Government engaged. I direct the attention of honourable senators briefly to one such extravagant adventure, and this was a classic. I refer to the Fill aircraft which was purchased in a time of dire need. We were told that we were about to be attacked - that we were threatened by the hordes from Indonenesia. So we entered into an arrangement to purchase 24 aeroplanes. 
 This is relevant. We should have received 124 aeroplanes for the final price we have to pay. We entered into an arrangement to purchase the 24 aeroplanes for $US125m. We are informed that the latest cost that the taxpayers will have to pay is $360m. But we still have not got one of the aeroplanes. I suggest that the Government should ferry them out by boat rather than fly them because they might not all get here. 
Of course, when the previous Government became involved in ventures such as Vietnam, it not only cost this country a tremendous amount in terms of money but almost tore this nation asunder. It spent millions of dollars on what has been proved to be a wasteful method of raising an army - by conscription and national service. In that respect another great saving will be made by this Government which will provide the wherewithal that  Senator Webster  was so concerned about. He asked where would the money come from. Of course, the taxation rorts perpetuated by people whom honourable senators opposite represent will be stopped. I point out that this is only the first instalment of a social security program to guarantee, as of right, an income to people who are aged, invalided, widowed, sick or unemployed. It amazes me that the former Government, now in opposition, showed discrimination between those classes of people to whom I have just referred. I do not know how the former Government could discriminate between widows in classifications A, B and C. 
How could it differentiate between people who were sick and entitled to sickness benefits under this Act, which will be amended in due course? A person had to be sick for at least 6 weeks to be eligible for assistance and received a lower social service benefit during that time. If he were ill for long enough he would receive an increased benefit. Then of course we have the case of a person who happened to be unemployed whom  Senator Webster  wanted to call a malingerer but did not have the intestinal fortitude to do so. That person would not be on the bread line, but below the bread line. That will all be changed. The honourable senator then queried - this just makes one smile - whether it was feasible for the Australian Labor Party, in accordance with the clear statement made by our leader, to increase the pension rates by $1.50 in the spring and autumn sessions of the Parliament until such time as they represented a full 25 per cent of the average weekly male earnings. He is now concerned that it may well be that because of the movement in the average weekly male earnings $1.50 a session would not be adequate to reach that percentage. I am pleased that the honourable senator showed such concern because I would anticipate that if, in due course, we found that $1.50 is inadequate he would agree to our increasing that amount to meet the undertaking we have given to the people of Australia. I want to quote briefly from the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in the other place. Obviously,  Senator Webster  did not read the second reading speech, but that does not surprise me. He said: 
We are mindful that, if there is not some abatement in the rate of growth in average weekly earnings in 1970-71 of 11.3 per cent, then the regular annua] 2 promised increases of $1.50 will have to be increased to achieve pension rates at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings within a reasonable time. 
If  Senator Webster  had read the second reading speech of the Minister in the other 
House, probably he would have changed most of the material that he used. Most of it was purely assumption. In fact, I would say that it was a figment of the imagination. If he had not approached the Bill in this way, he would have been able to deal with it more objectively. The honourable senator said that even with the increases, we were still providing a pension rate for a standard family that is below the poverty line. I regret to say that for the time being this is so although we have considered the matter in relation to certain figures resulting from an examination by the Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research at the Melbourne University. Again, I say that this points to the double standards and hypocrisy of this senator. I shall cite the figures for a standard family before the change of government and compare them with the position that will exist under the new Government. I repeat that this is only the first instalment by the Labor Government. 
 I am pleased to be reminded that they are retrospective to the first full pension payment after 2nd December 1972. 1 am also pleased at this because, otherwise, J would have been much more agitated when listening to  Senator Webster.  However long honourable senators opposite want to drag out this debate the people who are entitled to be recipients of these new social security payments will receive them retrospectively. 
A table on page 272 of the Hansard record shows a comparison of existing payments, determined by the former Government, and proposed payments to pensioners and beneficiaries. We are about to make a decision in relation to this matter tonight.  Senator Webster  referred to the standard family. I will go over the figures again because I think they are illuminating. A standard family consists of a man. his wife, one daughter aged 6 to IS years, and one male student aged 16 to 21 years. The poverty line, adjusted for household composition was S58.74. The pension was S3 1.50. So a comparison with the poverty line gives a minus figure of S27.24. That means, in effect, that the existing rates as determined by the previous Government provided a standard family with a handsome income that was $27.24 below the poverty line. With the increases, the value of the pension will be $48.50. It is true that it will still be below the poverty line, but it will be only $10.24 below the poverty line. I repeat that this is only the first instalment of a Labor Government. It is still $17 better than the amount paid by the former Government. This has happened in only the third week of the life of this Parliament. It is the third month of the year. 
 Yes. I wish to make one other reference in passing before I deal with what I think is an extremely important matter. It is the concern that was registered by  Senator Rae  earlier this afternoon. He was wondering whether a pensioner could anticipate a further pension increase in this autumn session. All I have to do to reply is to direct his attention to my remarks on  Senator Webster's  attitude to this question. I think that that dispenses with the matter raised by  Senator Rae,  except to say this: He was concerned about whether we would be able to arrest the inflationary state of affairs which honourable senators opposite now want to disown but which was brought about by 23 budgets over 23 years of incompetence. But even in the short time that we have been in office there is clear evidence of a revival of confidence in the economy and a stimulation of our manufacturing industries. Whilst I am not the greatest supporter of the Melbourne Herald', because T have been on the receiving end of its comments too often, I think that  Mr Peter  Cairns is acknowledged as a contemporary conservative economist and, therefore, it seems to me to be reasonable to quote what he has said. According to a report on page 11 of the Melbourne 'Herald' of Saturday, 10th March last, he said: 
A record February fall in unemployment and a sparkling 8 per cent annual growth rate in the nonfarm sector of the economy in the December quarter are facts. 
So, too, are an encouragingly high level of retail sales and a surge in new house and flat approvals and car registrations. 
These 3 booming areas of consumer spending seem certain to receive a further boost from the deferred national wage case which reopens on Tuesday. 
A decision is expected in late April or early May. 
It will give added stimulus to the upturn in consumer spending expected later this month when pension increases start to flow, and later in the year when the Budget tax cuts for low income earners, foreshadowed this week, begin to take effect. 
I refer briefly to another article titled 'Share Market Points Up Again' by  Mr David  Jefferson on the same page of last Saturday's Melbourne 'Herald', which states: 
Industrial and mining share prices were still climbing when trading closed at the Stock Exchange yesterday. 
It is 10th March 1973. What I am saying is that there is clear evidence that with a change of Government since 2nd December 1972 there is a renewed confidence in our ability and, as  Mr Cairns  says, the facts are clear and speak for themselves. 
I now want to direct the attention of honourable senators to a matter which has concerned me for some time. I cannot expect the new Government to deal with everything in 5 minutes, but I ask the Minister to give some attention to this matter in due course. On 10th October 1972 I asked the following question of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services: 

 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. Will the Minister give urgent consideration to an appropriate amendment to the Social Services Act which will enable an applicant who has been refused social service benefits, including unemployment benefits, to have ready access to an appeal tribunal before whom the applicant can contest unfavourable decisions made by any officer of the Department, including the DirectorGeneral. 

 Senator Greenwood, who at that time represented in this chamber the Minister for Social Services, indicated that he would convey my question to the Minister for Social Services. In due course the Minister answered the question. He informed me that a committee under the chairmanship of, I think,  Sir Henry  Bland was examining what is described as the discretionary powers under the various statutes. There has been no clear statement on that question ever since. Sections 13, 14 and 15 of the Social Services Act are quite explicit. Section 13 states: 
The Director-General shall, subject to this Act, determine claims. 
Then section 14 states: 
Whenever il appears to the Director-General that sufficient reason exists for reviewing a determination, direction, decision or approval of an officer under this Act (including a determination, direction, decision or approval of the Director-General), the Director-General may review the determination, direction, decision or approval and may affirm, vary or annul it. 
Section 15 states: 
A person affected by a determination, direction, decision or approval of an officer under this Act (except a determination, direction, decision or approval of the Director-General) may, within such time  (if  any) as is prescribed, appeal to the Director-General and the Director-General may affirm, vary or annul the determination, direction, decision or approval. 
In other words, as the Act is presently constituted, there is one arbitrator and there is no appeal. I have had occasion to challenge this question with a Minister in another place, and I will refer to a particular incident because it is important to bring the point out. In the middle of last year a major dispute occurred at what is known as the W Station at Yallourn in Victoria. The principal contractor, A and L Thompson, engaged 20-odd contractors and more than 1,000 men were employed on the job. The terms of employment were based on a negotiated agreement between the contractors collectively and the various unions which had members employed on the job. The agreement expired and was due for renewal. There were negotiations but the employers took a stand which made meaningful negotiations impossible. The employers in concert, at the same hour on the same day, issued notices to the 1 ,000 employees - sacked them on the spot. 
When applications for unemployment benefits were lodged at the Morwell district office they were initially refused. Then they were refused for more than a month. If honourable senators know the particular location in the State of Victoria they would know that there is no alternative employment available. The men had to draw up their roots, leave their homes and take their families to the city in order to try to find employment. They retained no equity for the investment which they had made in their homes. Others stayed around the district and tried to obtain employment here and there, but as soon as an employer knew they were from W station they were refused employment, and this is a known fact. 
In my view the Department - acting, I believe, on advice from a higher level - was attempting to bludgeon these workers back, to starve them to the point where they had to go back and to agree to the terms of employment, which were unacceptable to them, that were being offered by the employer. 1 made a protest to the then Minister for Social Services,  Mr Wentworth.  I had discussions on 2 occasions with him in his office. I found that he had to rely on the advice that he received via the Melbourne office of the then Department of Labour and National Service. Of course, we have deleted the national service element from the Department, In other words, the Minister for Social Services in Canberra had to rely on advice from his office in Morwell, which was transferred through the Melbourne office of the Department of Labour and National Service to Canberra. Those men never knew why they were being denied their unemployment benefits, and there was no way in which one could test the reason for their being denied these benefits, which reason was given in secret by one department to another. 1 say without hesitation that it is a deplorable situation, and I would expect that the Labor Government will amend that section of the Social Services Act, to say the least. 
I could go further and refer to persons whom I have seen who have applied for an invalid pension. Of course, one has to be 85 per cent incapacitated in accordance with the Act before one is entitled to an invalid pension. But again, one person makes the decision, and that person  is  an officer of the Department, a paid servant of the Department, a medical officer. If he says no, then the applicant is not entitled to an invalid pension, and there is no way in the world you can test that decision. I am asking the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  to convey to the Minister in the other place the fact that there is need for some appeal machinery whereby a person who has been denied any of the benefits to which we have referred and which are incorporated in the Bill we are discussing tonight will have a right publicly to test the reasons for the refusal to grant an invalid pension. 
I have clear evidence at the moment from a constituent, a doctor who has been treating a patient for more than 10 years. One can never convince me that a medical officer who sees a person for 5 minutes at the Commonwealth centre on the corner of Spring and La Trobe Streets in Melbourne can know that person as well as a doctor who has attended him for 10 years. Fortunately, the doctor who has been attending my constituent for 10 years has been prepared to give me a lengthy and detailed opinion. I hope that in due course the Department will have the applicant examined by another doctor so that a wrong can be rectified. But that is not an efficient way of dealing with the matter I have raised. I ask the Minister for the Media to convey to the Minister for Social Security in another place the need for the establishment of appeals machinery of a public nature. The claims made and the reasons for any denials could be tested in a public place. 
I repeat that this Bill is only the first instalment in our social security program. The cries will come from the Opposition: 'Where is the money coming from? You will be creating inflation. You will be literally destroying the very things that you are trying to achieve for the less fortunate people in the community.' I remind honourable senators opposite that we had 23 years experience in opposition. Only a fool does not learn by other people's mistakes. We have been able for 23 years to observe the mistakes made by members of the Opposition when they were in office. If we make the same mistakes, we do not deserve to be in government. I believe that we deserve to be in office. We have learned by the mistakes of our opponents and the people of Australia can be assured that the undertaking we have given can be met and will be met. 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General in a position to say whether there is any substance in the serious allegation that charges made by the Postmaster-General's Department for the initial installation of a telephone, the transfer of a telephone and the connection of a telephone, and rental charges,' have not been based on a genuine cost-benefit analysis, but rather were a device employed by the former Government to dampen demand and deter people from applying for telephone services? Will the commission of inquiry initiated by the Postmaster-General be examining this area of the .Department's operations? If not, will the Minister ask the Postmaster-General to have this allegation investigated and cause his findings to be tabled in the Parliament? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary 
Industry. Has there been any protest from Opposition members to the inclusion of  Mr Kibel,  referred to by  Senator Sim  as a Manchester Jew, as a member of the trade delegation of prominent leaders of commerce and industry which will accompany  Dr Cairns  when he visits China in May of this year? 
I say at the outset that I oppose the proposal because I think it is nothing short of what will eventually turn out to be an inquisition. I do not want to canvass the merits of the matter, but 1 do warn the Senate. I ask the Senate to take notice of the counsel of the Leader of the Government  (Senator Murphy)  because I have been informed - and I am seeking information through the research section of the Parliamentary Library to confirm the information that has been conveyed to me - that the gentleman who would be the subject of this inquiry has taken legal action against a journalist and a newspaper on much the same sort of subject matter as is contained in the proposal moved by  Senator Gair  and which would be subject to inquiry by a Senate committee. I simply say this to the Senate, and I concede that it is based on very limited experience in this chamber: I can recall that one night when I was an Opposition member the then Leader of the Government,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, a man I have some respect for, gave me certain advice. I was speaking in the adjournment debate about a matter that I had raised and when I referred to a certain individual,  Sir Kenneth  Anderson immediately counselled me about the appropriateness of continuing because of a pending court case concerning the same individual. Even though I intimated then that I had the authority of the person concerned to say the things that I wanted to say, I accepted the wise counsel tendered to me by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. 
It may well be that  Senator Wright  in his role as a Minister of the Crown at that time and as a member of the legal profession also took the same point. I suggest to both  Senator Gair  and the Opposition generally that they should allow the matter to be deferred so that, apart from what my Leader has said, the reference to me of the action taken by  Mr Burchett  can be confirmed or otherwise. I do this because I am sure that this Senate would not want to proceed in such circumstances. I do not question the powers of the Senate; they are such that the Senate may proceed with an inquiry notwithstanding any other action taken outside this chamber. I acknowledge this; nevertheless I think that the action proposed could create a precedent which would be to the disadvantage of and would affect the dignity and standing of this institution. For those reasons I join with my Leader in counselling the Opposition and in suggesting to  Senator Gair  that he may be prepared to allow the matter to be stood over for the time being. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did the Liberal-Country Party Government, in December  1971,  appoint a committee, with  Sir Henry 
Bland as its Chairman, to examine administrative decisions made under Commonwealth statutes and regulations, particularly so far as they applied to the Department of Social Security. 
Has the Committee completed its inquiry: if not, is it still continuing. 
Will the report and recommendations of the Committee, if any, be tabled in the Senate at the earliest opportunity. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The Minister for Social Security has supplied the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
The Bland Committee was appointed in December 1971 to examine administrative discretions under Commonwealth statutes and regulations which includes those now in the administration of the Department of Social Security. 
and (3) I understand that an interim report of the Committee is at present being printed but questions about the operation of the Committee and the tabling of its report should be directed to the Attorney-General. 
 I am reliably informed that on the average there are some 15,000 divorces each year in Australia. 
As 2 people are involved in each case this means that some 30,000 people are affected by the Matrimonial Causes Act and the Matrimonial Causes Rules, if one takes into account the children who may be likewise affected, one arrives at something in excess of 30,000 people who are directly affected by the Act and the Rules. I make that statement at the outset to highlight the magnitude of the subject we are considering. Many fine types of men and women have visited my office - one visit occurred as recently as last Monday - and have literally pleaded with me to do what I could in the Senate to prevent the disallowance of the rules we are now debating. One would think from some speakers that the amendment of the Matrimonial Causes Rules is a grotesque system designed to destroy the institution of marriage. I say right here and now that there is nothing further from the truth. Whilst I recognise that a legal formula is necessary to enable the dissolution of a marriage,I am more concerned with the human aspects. I think that the basic principles of an appropriate law must be under-pinned by the fact that laws must have regard to the people involved. In other words, our laws relating to divorce need humanising. 
I wish to make two brief passing references to speeches made in this debate. Because of committee work and other commitments [ have not been able to hear or to read all of the contributions made by senators to this debate. I regret that  Senator Carrick  is not in the chamber at present.I acknowledge that he has commitments, as I have had, which cause one to leave the chamber.  Senator Carrick's  moralising in his contribution yesterday did nothing to acknowledge the antiquated, archaic and demeaning divorce laws and rules. I wish also to refer to the speech of  Senator Durack.  At page 638 of yesterday's Hansard he is reported to have said: 
In producing these rules  Senator Murphy  has produced the greatest legal mess that has ever been perpetrated by any Commonwealth draftsman. 
Honourable senators may concede that that is rather strong language. 
 I accept that, but I want to direct the Senate's attention to a Press release dated 9th March 1973 over the signature of the  President  of the Law Council of 
Australia. I understand that it is an acknowledged authority. I wish that  Senator' Durack  were present as I understand that he is a member of that august body. I seek the leave of the Senate to incorporate that Press release in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
The legal profession throughout Australia is as anxious as anybody to see improvements to procedural and substantive law in all fields and certainly in Matrimonial Causes. 
With reference to the recently introduced amendments to the Matrimonial Causes Rules, particular welcome is given to those provisions relating to the abolition of discretion statements, simplification of forms and a reduction of parties to a suit and generally to the obvious intention of the Rules to reduce indignity and delays. 
The profession is prepared to co-operate in making these Rules work although it is appreciated that some portions of the Rules create problems in procedure and do not fully achieve the results intended. 
The spirit of law reform, however, in Matrimonial Causes must be carried on to a point where radical amendments through the Matrimonial Causes Act are made in order to achieve real and substantial improvement. To this purpose a Committee appointed by the Law Council of Australia is currently engaged in formulating recommendations for amendments to the Act for submission to the Honourable AttorneyGeneral. 
The Law Council of Australia also welcomes the announcement by the Attorney-General of the 15th February 1973, that the Australian Government is to seek membership for Australia of two international legal organisations, namely, the Hague Conference on Private International Law and the International Institute for Unification of Private International Law. 
Such a move, if successful, will give Australia access to a body of foreign law and legal rules which should be of great assistance to Australian companies engaged in international commerce and also to Australian investors abroad and to travellers. 9th March 1973. 
I appreciate that I have been given an opportunity to incorporate this short Press release in the Hansard record. I will not read any more of it. 
I will deal with that in due course. I wish to refer again to  Senator Durack's  contribution to the debate yesterday. Among other things, he referred to articles written in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' in the middle of last month. In referring to them, 

 Senator Durack said: 
In the second of those articles he summarised the objections he had to the rules as follows: 
The new divorce rules are drafted very poorly. They are replete with redundant phrases and errors. In at least one case, a rule has been amended so that it reads as  a  jumble of words. In another, the draftsman has managed to amend a repealed sub-rule. 
It is true that the honourable senator was quoting the opinion of a Professor Sackville. I think we must all pay due regard to the interpretations that journalists are inclined to apply to statements made by people with some authority. I am a little surprised that  Senator Durack  relied on the 'Sydney Morning Herald' for his source of support for the views he expressed in the Senate yesterday. To put it in another way, as a former cabinet maker and a craftsman of some distinction, if I wanted an opinion about a piece of furniture I would not be asking the local butcher. As the  President  of the Law Institute of Australia said, complicated procedures impose indignity and delay and as everyone is prepared to admit, with the exception of Opposition honourable senators who have spoken in the debate, impose expenses and charges far beyond the means of many people to meet. For a couple to be forced literally to continue a pretence of marriage makes a mockery of the whole concept of marriage. The failure of a marriage when reconciliation is impossible is a tragedy. The consequential effects on the couple involved and children, if any, can do irreparable damage to the rest of their lives. Notwithstanding the ingenuity of man, there is no way in which laws and rules can be made to regulate human nature and in particular human emotions. Therefore, the next best measure to provide a dignified termination of the relationship must be adopted in the interests of the couple in particular and in my view in the interests of society as a whole. In my view, the existing Matrimonial Causes Rules - this is also said by a leading authority in this field - are antiquated, archaic and degrading to the victims of such rules and do more to destroy the institution of marriage than any other cause. 
I am endeavouring to be as charitable as I can in the course of this debate because I am asking the Opposition to recast its thinking about its proposal to disallow these rules. I must confess that the only conclusion I can draw from the contributions I have heard to date from Opposition members is that they are deliberately attempting to misrepresent the genuine intention of these new rules. 
 Before I was interrupted - and I accept the interjection for what it is worth - I was about to say that a complete review of the Act and the rules must take some considerable time. This is to be readily seen on looking at page 226 of yesterday's Senate notice paper. Under the heading 'Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees' the first item is the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. 1 note that on 7th December 1971 the Senate gave to that Committee a reference entitled 'The law and administration of divorce, custody and family matters'. It is true that an interim report was presented on 31st October 1972. I am referring to this not as a criticism of that Committee, because I can imagine the tremendous amount of work involved and the complexities of the subject matter which the Committee is examining, but to point up the protracted delay that obviously must ensue before that Committee completes its deliberations and finally reports its recommendations to the Senate. 
What I am saying, in effect, is that if the Senate disallows these rules, then the Senate in my view can be legitimately charged with negating its responsibilities to thousands of Australian citizens who are personally affected by the rules. The amendment to the Matrimonial Causes Rules which the Senate is being asked to disallow will not correct all the evident anomalies in both the Act and the rules. However, I refer again to what the  President  of the Law Council of Australia has stated. He said: 
Hie obvious intention of these rules is to reduce the indignity and delays. 
That is a significant statement and one which 1 believe the Senate should take note of. What I am saying to the Senate, in effect, on behalf of the people who have made representations to me to represent them in this place is simply that I am not convinced thai these rules impinge upon the legislative powers of this chamber and the other chamber. In his contribution yesterday  Senator Wheeldon  pointed up quite clearly that these amending rules are simply an amendment of those rules which are already provided for within the meaning and terms of the Matrimonial Causes Rules. Therefore, in my view, it is to mislead this chamber to suggest that the amending Matrimonial Causes Rules require complementary amendments to the Act. I repeat that over 30,000 Australian citizens - and how many children none of us would know - are affected directly by the proposal which is before the Senate today. 
In my short contribution to the debate I have not endeavoured to intrude into a field in which, in the technical sense of the word. I am not competent. I have relied on an informed source. I think all honourable senators, particularly those who are of that profession, would agree that the Law Council of Australia is an acknowledged authority in Australia. 1 repeat that the Opposition should reconsider its suggested proposals and that it should allow the amended matrimonial causes rules to remain and to be applied. I trust that in the interim period the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs will be able to complete its work and report to the Senate, and that a thorough review of both the Act and the rules appropriate to this day and age, 1973. will be adopted. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Were a number of persons apprehended in Sydney last weekend? Were these people associated with terrorist activities against a friendly nation, namely Yugoslavia, former citizens of that country now domiciled in Australia, and prominent Australian citizens? Have charges been laid against any persons? If so, what are those charges? 
The document that has been distributed - I hope that the time consumed while I wait to be heard over the interjections will not be taken from the time I am allowed to speak - that is, the statement by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  on 27th March, a copy of which was distributed to every member of the Senate, is a damning indictment of the ineptitude, inaction and failure of the previous Government; not only of the previous AttorneyGeneral, but also of the previous Government which did not take action against people who could be shown to have acted in a manner which could have caused death, bodily injury and damage to property. I am referring, in other words, to a terrorist group within the Australian community. 
Three major points are at issue tonight. The first is this: Do we agree that acts of violence by individuals and/ or groups of individuals which have exposed the community to death, bodily injury and damage to property must be stamped out? I think we would all agree that appropriate action should be taken, irrespective of the nationalities of the people involved, when it is shown that people are carrying out such acts within the community. The people who are committing these acts of terrorism must be identified. 
The second major point at issue tonight is: Is there any evidence to suggest that acts of terrorism have in fact been carried out since 1963? The third major point is: Are there identifiable national groups which can be said to have been party to these acts of terrorism?  (Senator Rae interjecting)  - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! No honourable senator is entitled to interject and to demand answers. Interjections are disorderly and this rule will be applied to honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I do not know who was first on his feet. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I call  Senator Keeffe. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I call  Senator Wilkinson. 

 Senator Wilkinson - My point; of order is this: When you are trying, as the  Deputy President,  . to keep order in the chamber I consider it is wrong for the broadcasting control operator to switch on the microphone in front of an interjector. That is what happened tonight .and it has happened on a number of occasions. The control operator has switched on the microphone of an interjector who should not be interjecting. The point of order I am making is that an honourable senator is not allowed to interject. I claim that no microphone of an honourable senator who is interjecting should be switched on because an interjection is in defiance of the ruling of the Chair, in defiance of Standing Orders and it should not be made. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The point of order raised by  Senator Wilkinson  is one for consideration by the Standing Orders Committee or by some other authority. It is not one for my determination at the moment. The honourable senator's protest is noted. I call on  Senator Brown  to continue his speech and I expect him to be heard in silence. 
I say in passing that I listened to the remarks made by  Senator 
Greenwood today. I believe that he was entitled to be heard by the Senate and was entitled to have as much time as he required to present his case in the form of a defence against the indictment to which I referred at the beginning of my remarks. I hope that the Senate will give me an opportunity to express my views without these constant interjections which are, in effect, reducing my speaking time. I was asking these questions before the interruption: Is there any evidence to suggest that acts of terrorism have been committed since 1963? Against whom have these acts been committed? I was about to direct the attention of honourable senators to the Hansard record of the House of Representatives of 20th April 1972 at page 1869. In part, this is the speech delivered by my leader, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He said: 
Since 1963 there have been repeated bashings, bombings and murders associated with this group. Arrests have been remarkably few; investigations remarkably fruitless. Some time ago, in August 1964, it was possible for Prime Minister Menzies to say: 
The Commonwealth's own investigations so far have not produced any evidence which would warrant legal proceedings. 
My leader went on to say: 
Whatever might have been the position then, it certainly cannot be so claimed today. On 30th November 1968 the Yugoslav Consulate-General in Sydney was subject to one of its periodic blastings. On the same day the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said of the Ustasha: 'Their cause is a good one. We must encourage the spirit of independence'. 
My leader went on to say in the same speech at page 1870: 
In fact, the record has mounted since then, because on 7th April last year the then Minister for Foreign Affairs told me that there had been bombings of the Yugoslav Consulate-General in Sydney m January 1967, in November 1968 and in June 1969; that there had been a bomb explosion at the Yugoslav New Settlers League Party in the Richmond Town Hall in November 1967; that there had been an attack on the Chancery of the Yugoslav Embassy in Canberra in November 1969; and that there had been a bombing of the Yugoslav Consulate-General in Melbourne in October 1970. 
I think that it will have to be conceded that there is clear evidence of bombings and that these bombings have exposed to risk of death not only those who were directly associated with these Consulates or Chanceries but also the public who may have been in the vicinity. There has been risk of bodily harm and also, as a side effect, the destruction of property. 
So it can be said without fear of contradiction or doubt that there is clear evidence and also that there is clear evidence to show against whom these acts of terrorism have been committed. I want to refer briefly to the statement that was presented by  Senator Greenwood  in a defence in which frankly I must concede he had difficulties because he was attempting to defend the indefensible. It took  Senator Greenwood  about an hour to deliver a speech of some 30 pages. Firstly, I wish to refer to his remarks on page 3 where he said: 
It is inconceivable that if there is evidence of organised terrorism there should be no prosecutions. 
He goes on to say: 
Why, if the evidence is there, have there been no prosecutions? No reason ls given. 
It would seem to me that  Senator Greenwood  prepared this statement before the weekend and was not capable of changing course. As you know,  Mr Deputy President  - I do not propose to say any more than this about the matter - there have been a number of arrests and charges laid by the police. It is alleged that persons have been in possession of weapons, explosives and other material that could do bodily harm and damage property.  Senator Greenwood  then continued on page 3: 
The Attorney-General had an abundance of material available to him. What he chose not to disclose is revealing. 
This is the part I want to emphasise: 1 have a document, received from ASIO last year and dated 13th April 1972 - - 
It is not numbered. It is in the statement of the honourable senator's colleague at page 3. I am quoting directly from his statement. I shall continue: 
I have a document, received from ASIO last year and dated 13th April 1972, which  Senator Murphy  has available to him and which he has not tabled. And what does it say? It expressed, in 11 closely argued pages, that it is difficult not to believe that the majority of violent incidents involving Yugoslavs in Australia . . . 
He then quotes the document as follows: - if they are indeed the work of Croatian nationalists - must also be the result of activity by isolated individuals or very small groups. Certainly the incidents themselves have been of a type not requiring organisational support, but rather, limited ingenuity on the behalf of an individual to obtain explosives and construct a simple detonating mechanism. 
I wish now to quote from page 4 of  Senator Greenwood's  statement and from the document that  Senator Greenwood  was prepared to table. The document stated:  . . that while there were grounds for presuming that the Croatian Nationalist Organisations as entities are unlikely to be involved in such violence in Australia, a more probable explanation lies in the activities of individuals and small groups acting independently without organisational support. 

 Senator Greenwood then said: 
I shall table the document and I challenge the Attorney-General. Why did he not table it? Why did he make no reference to its conclusions? 
The simple answer to that is that we have heard all this before. In the course of asking questions over a period of years, this was the sort of answer we received from the former Attorney-General on every occasion. On page. 5 he repeats the statement that he made on 20th July 1972. He said: 
Investigations by the Commonwealth Police so far have not revealed any credible evidence that any Croatian revolutionary terrorist organisation exists in Australia. The Government cannot positively reject assertions that individuals or groups of individuals may be engaging in terrorist activities directed in some way to achieving Croatian independence. - Allegations of such activities and other matters are frequently brought to the notice of the police and these are subject to continuous investigation. If investigations disclose such activities, the person so engaged will be prosecuted if their activities are in breach of the law. 
Again, it is the same sort of answer that we received over a period of years when continual terrorist activities were being carried out. The former Attorney-General said at page 7 of his statement: 
I was consistently receiving submissions from the Police, from ASIO and from the Attorney-General's Department on the whole question of terrorism. 
He refers then to another report. But what I want to point out is that  Senator Greenwood,  in the course of his remarks, never once intimated that not only did he receive submissions from the police, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and from the AttorneyGeneral's Department but that also he received submissions from members of the community and from honourable senators, including myself. On 24th July 1972 I wrote to  Senator Greenwood  in the following terms: 
I wish to raise a matter which I believe should be stated to the Senate.  Mr President,  it may well be that you will have to give consideration to the subject matter after I have stated the reference. It is in respect to last evening and the course of my address whenI sought leave or at least intimated as recorded at page 850 of yesterday's Senate Hansard that I was prepared to table certain documents if the Senate so wished. It is also recorded at page 851 of Hansard when I was quoting from the document that I would seek leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. It may be recalled that I overlooked the question of time and that my time had expired before I asked for leave to have that document incorporated.  Mr President,  after you had called on  Senator Rae,  he made a statement which I will quote from page 852 of the Senate Hansard: 
Before I commence my speech, perhaps I should seek to clarify whether  Senator Brown  did or did not incorporate in Hansard any document. He referred to  his wish to do so. 
You, MrPresident, replied in these terms: 
I am aware  of  this  fact  I left the option open to  Senator Brown.  He began to read a document and the  option was open to him subsequently to table  the  document and to ask for leave to have the balance of it incorporated in Hansard.I do not know what your wish is on this point,  Senator Brown? 
I  replied: 
I offer my apologies to the Senate. I did not realise that my time had passed so quickly. I do wish  to  have incorporated in Hansard the document to which I have referred. 
You,  Mr President,  said: 
Which document is that? 
I  referred to the document.  Senator Rae  then said- and this is the pertinent point: 
May  1  suggest to  Senator Brown  that he renew his application, which is an application made after the conclusion of his speech, tomorrow- 
At that stage,  Mr President,  you said: 
No, I will put the question now. Is leave granted to incorporate the document- 

 Senator Rae interrupted to say: 
May  1  simply suggest to  Senator Brown  that he renew his application tomorrow after we have had an opportunity to see the document. 
I  repeat the words 'to see the document. He continued: 
That is the request that I would have made if he had sought leave in the course of his speech. 
You,  Mr President,  then said: 
Leave is not granted. 
The point  I  want to bring out is this: As  I  understand the Standing Orders when leave is sought to incorporate a document in Hansard, at that point leave is either granted or not granted.  I  do not question the motive behind the suggestions made by  Senator Rae.  I have discussed this with him outside the Senate Chamber. But it seems to me that there is a need for this matter to be looked at. Honourable senators should understand that, if a suggestion is made that leave may be given for a document to be incorporated in Hansard after the request has been reviewed, some time later, that effectively disallows the request to have the document incorporated.  It  seems to me that this document cannot now be incorporated for the simple reason that at a previous stage leave was not granted and  I  accept that ruling. 
I  think it would be impossible now to incor porate this document in the appropriate portion of yesterday's Senate Hansard, even if leave were given to do so at this late hour. Therefore,  I  am suggesting to the Senate that I think this is an appropriate matter to be brought to its notice. I believe that  Senator 
Rae has some comments to make on it.  Mr President,  I trust that you will give your attention to it because it may require some consideration by the Standing Orders Committee. 
I regret that the Senate has been subjected to a dissipation and waste of time in considering a motion dealing with a so-called matter of urgency which it is difficult to understand. I think that most Opposition honourable senators might concede this if they have a look at and try to study and evaluate what is meant by the subject the motion proposes as a matter of urgency. I want to deal briefly with a comment made by  Senator Webster  in the course of his remarks. He was terribly concerned about our so-called disagreement with our former allies. This is a matter that really concerns me in the debate we are conducting this evening as a consequence of this motion: We are dealing with what may be said to be the effect rather than the causation. If honourable senators opposite are prepared to cast their minds back and be honest - I know that it is difficult for them to be honest - they have to- 
I did not interrupt the honourable senator. If honourable senators opposite are prepared to cast their minds back and be honest about this, they will concede that in the 1939-45 World War, when it was a question of defending Indo-China, the then colonialists in IndoChina, particularly in Vietnam - it was then one nation - were collaborators with the people against whom we lost more than 27,000 men from this country alone. The Vietminh forces created a resistance movement. They were supplied and supported by the Allies during that war. I ask the honourable senator to think about this. They were a part of our cause during the 1939-45 War and they lost many people. What happened after the cessation of hostilities in that War? The French and the Dutch endeavoured to impose their colonial rule, in the first instance in Indo-China and in the second instance in Indonesia. They were supported and aided by the so-called Allies. As a matter of fact, they did not even disarm the Japanese forces on Java in order to support the recolonialisation of Indonesia. I hope that  Senator Webster  will not leave the chamber. I would ask him to think about this. These were the people who supported us during the 1939-45 War. 
With the cessation of hostilities, the French endeavoured to reimpose their colonial rule although they were the collaborators in this part of the world during that War. I repeat that we lost 27,000 men - the cream of the youth of this country - apart from those who were injured and incapacitated for the rest of their lives. I hope that  Senator Webster  is listening to what I am saying. Then the French decided that they had a rightful claim to the part of Indo-China about which we are talking this evening. Other parts of Indo-China had been cut up between the great colonial powers, including the old United Kingdom, the great empire of yesteryear. What happened? The French were so bankrupt that they could not sustain their attempts to reassert their colonial influence in Indo-China. Unbeknown to the then  President  of the United States of America and by some devious means, the American nation started to support the re-establishment of colonial rule in Indo-China. It was underwriting up to 75 per cent of the cost of the attempts by the French, who were opposed to this nation and the Allied forces during the 1939-45 War, to reimpose their colonial rule, until 1945 when they were ignominiously defeated by the Vietnamese people. Are honourable senators opposite forgetting this? That was the commencement of the real force behind the former Vichy French collaborators who were opposed to us in the last World War and who decided to take over and then expose themselves to the world. The position is as simple as that. 
What happened from then on? Firstly, there was one person - Ngo Dinh Diem - who was supported by the then American Government. He proved to be unsuccessful. The world knows what happened to him. The American Government deliberately set out to murder him, and it did murder him. That has never been contested. A part of the Geneva Accords stated that free elections were to be held in Vietnam, I think in 1955 or 1956. The year does not really matter. It was just after the signing of the Geneva Accords. A statement was made by a man whom we are presently acknowledging to be one of the great Presidents of the United States of America, the former Commanding-General of the American Armed Forces,  President  Eisenhower. This is not what Bill Brown says; it is to be seen in the records of the United States Congress. He said that the United States could not afford to have free elections in Vietnam. The reason he gave was simple. At least he was honest, which is more than honourable senators opposite are. He said that 80 per cent of the people of Vietnam would vole for Ho Chi Minh. The position is as simple as that. 
My colleague said that Menzies said that. He said a lot of strange things. He may well have said that. After he came back from Nazi Germany before the 1939-45 war he said he supported Hitler, too. Lel us cast our minds back over history. If we had really wanted a bulwark against the threat of the so-called downward thrust of Communist China- 
Yes, the domino theory. If there was one nation which could have provided this bulwark it was that of the Vietnamese people. I will tell you why this is so: They had fought the Chinese for a thousand years not because of ideological considerations but because they wanted to have a Vietnamese nation independent and free of interference. 
They fought the Japanese; they fought the Chinese. 
Yes, and the French. 
And then they had to fight the Americans. 
And then to our shame they had to fight Australians. I say it with great respect, because it was not their fault that our young men, as a consequence of a decision of a former government led by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies  - so-called  Sir Robert  - which committed the first battalion of troops to !&gt;hat conflict in April 1965, fought in Vietnam.  Senator Hannan  said this evening in the course of his contribution, which was the usual theoretical flamboyance that he goes on with, that we were entertaining enemies who had shot down 500 Australians. Those young men were not responsible for being in Vietnam. The North Vietnamese were trying to defend themselves against the same sort of thing that they had suffered for over a thousand years. You members who now sit on the Opposition benches were responsible for sending those young men there. My God, can you dispute the right of the Vietnamese to defend their own country, their territorial sovereignty? You cannot. Now I look at these people who used to sit on the cross benches, particularly  Senator Greenwood  and a few others who were young enough to carry arms and never had the guts to do it but pursued young men who they believed ought to have gone to Vietnam while they enjoyed the sanctuary of this place. They persecuted and prosecuted and gaoled young men - for what? If they are prepared to think logically about history- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! 
I do not want to be interrupted, even by my colleague. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! ....tor Poyser will cease this unseemly behaviour. 
If Opposition senators are prepared to think about this and about the history of these people, they will see that the Vietnamese have shown the greatest courage and the greatest fortitude of any nation of people 1 have ever known. The greatest tragedy is that 500 of our young people, our youth, were sent there to be killed. What sort of treatment did the Australians who returned from Vietnam receive from the former Government? I am the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare which is currently examining repatriation benefits and I should like to deal with just one example.  Senator Little  you can yawn. You have been yawning for a long time. You would not know which end of a rifle the bullet comes out, but you are always prepared to send other people to war on your behalf. You are a parasite; you are a hypocrite. I have no apology to offer for saying tha* - no apology. 
 I have no apology to make. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member if such House . . . and all personal reflections on members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
There have been many rulings by your predecessors that the word 'hypocrite' - I do not know about the word 'parasite' - is unparliamentary. 1 can only submit that the point of order is well sustained by past practice. 
I will make my position perfectly clear. There are 2 ways of saying something: One can be either honest or dishonest. I will simply say in lieu of what I said before that  Senator Little  never had the intestinal fortitude or the guts to do what he has suggested other people ought to have done. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I understand that you are withdrawing the words objected to. 
And I am substituting other words for them. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Will you proceed,  Senator Brown. 
Yes. Thank you,  Sir. Before  I was rudely interrupted- (Opposition-senators interjecting) 
For obvious reasons they do not have the wherewithal to stand up to what I am saying. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Laucke,  do you wish to take a point of order? 
I withdraw them. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESD3ENT - I think honourable senators should realise that their behaviour tonight is not seemly. Part of the difficulty has been my inability at times to hear  Senator Brown  because of the misbehaviour of  Senator Poyser  and, at times,  Senator O'Byrne  who have interjected- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  You may not raise this point of order at this stage.  Senator Poyser  and  Senator O'Byrne  consistently interjected while their colleague was speaking.  Senator Brown  is quite capable of making his speech himself but at times I was not able to hear his speech because of the behaviour of his colleagues. I suggest that we all realise that this behaviour is not fitting. A point of order was raised and I understood that  Senator Brown  intended that his substitution of other words was a retraction of what he had said. I take it that he has retracted the word 'hypocrite' which is- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  And 'parasite'. These words have been repeatedly ruled as unparliamentary. I now ask  Senator Brown  to continue his speech - without any assistance from  Senator Poyser. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The  Clerk  informs me that  Senator Brown's  time has expired, which is unfortunate. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Poyser,  you must realise that you cannot reflect upon the Chair in that way. Obviously your behaviour was not (fitting tonight and I treated you rather lightly. I gave you many warnings but, despite the warnings, you persisted in the behaviour to which I objected. I shall ignore at the moment the reference you made to me and I trust that you will take this as a final warning that I will not accept that kind of behaviour. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education: Apart from Press reports, what details of the proposed Victorian university had been received by the Australian Universities Commission prior to the tabling of its report on 3rd May 1973? 
by leave-  I  wish to make a brief statement in respect of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. The Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare has resolved to make a statement to the Senate on two of the matters referred to it by the Senate in the previous session which were not disposed of by the Committee.  I  deal firstly with the repatriation reference. The Committee anticipates that it will make a report to the Senate early in the Budget session arising from the reference relating to 'all aspects of Repatriation including the operation of the Repatriation Act'. 
The report will cover all facets of the Repatriation Act but the Committee has resolved that unless the Senate otherwise directs, it will not proceed upon a consideration of these particular matters: 
War service homes. 
War service land settlement. 
Seamen's war pensions. 
Native members of the forces. 
Persons who receive act of grace payments, for example, service chaplains. 
I now deal with the question of national superannuation. The Committee has not proceeded with the reference relating to 'the introduction of a National Superannuation Scheme and the methods of financing and operating such a scheme' because of its concentration upon the reference relating to repatriation. The Committee has now noted the appointment by the Government of a National Superannuation Committee of Inquiry with terms of reference similar to those which the Committee received from the Senate, and has resolved that, unless the Senate otherwise directs, the Committee will not proceed with that reference and will re-consider this view following the receipt of the Government Committee's report. 
My question is directed to  the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that at the recent meeting of the International Whaling Commission in London the Australian delegation voted in favour of a moratorium on all commercial whaling. Is Australia continuing whaling from a shore station at Albany in Western Australia? Is the reported statement of the Minister correct that there would be a detailed examination of the implications of closing this last remaining station? If so, what has the examination revealed? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware that the New Zealand Transport Minister,  Sir Basil  Arthur, has announced that he will travel to Australia next month for urgent consultations with his Australian counterpart, the Honourable C. K. Jones, on a shipping dispute? Can the Minister advise when  Sir Basil  intends to visit Australia and for what reasons he requires these urgent discussions? 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware that overseas mail order houses are actively soliciting business in Australia through advertisements in the local Press and by contacting potential buyers by letter or telephone? Is duty normally payable on the goods offered? If so. is the Minister satisfied that buyers are made aware of this fact by the companies' representatives? 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to make a brief statement relating to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. 
 Mr President,  my question is directed to you as the Presiding Officer of the Senate. I seek your guidance and indulgence. What recourse has the Senate to contest a claim by a senator to have been misrepresented by Hansard and a request for the deletion of remarks attributed to him? By way of explanation I bring to your notice that on Tuesday, 28 August 1973, at page 210 of Hansard,  Senator Greenwood  sought leave to make a personal explanation and leave was granted. On page 211 the report shows that when  Senator. Greenwood  had completed his personal explanation the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  asked leave to say something in relation to what  Senator Greenwood  had said. You then asked whether leave was granted and  Senator Greenwood  is reported as saying: 'No'.  Senator Murphy  then asked: 
Am I to understand that the honourable senator -  he was obviously referring to  Senator Greenwood  -  having been given leave to make an explanation, denies me the right to correct a reflection which he made upon me in the course of making thai explanation? 
The reply from  Senator Greenwood  was: Yes'. I understand that  Senator Greenwood  has sought through your good office to have that remark which was attributed to him deleted from the record. 1 say emphatically that I have a very vivid recollection of the incident and that I can recall quite vividly the response by Seantor Greenwood at that time. So I ask you,  Mr President:  What right of redress or what recourse has the Senate to ensure that the record of Hansard is a correct record of what is said in this place and not a distortion? 
-I present the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on the petitions relating to social services. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement in relation to the report. 
-Briefly, I wish to indicate that the Government concurs in this proposal being referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. I agree with what  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield has said. A mass of work already has been done by various committees on this matter during their investigations. It does seem as though there is a need to co-ordinate and - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)- Senator Brown,  will you indicate whether you are seconding the motion. 
Yes, I am. As I was saying, there is a need to co-ordinate and draw together the mass of material that is available and also to fill in what appeared to one committee on which I had the pleasure to sit to be the gaps which are in existence and which mean that people who would otherwise have access to a comprehensive form of rehabilitation are being denied that opportunity. I must say in passing that I hope that the Committee will be able to deal with this matter in an expeditious manner and to report to the Senate on it as quickly as possible for the benefit of the Senate and those who are interested in the subject of rehabilitation generally. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that people living in the East Gippsland district, which was severely affected by drought last year, are still suffering from the aftermath of that prolonged drought and require continued financial assistance? Has the Victorian Government availed itself of the Commonwealth Government's offer of either late December last year or early January this year of a grant of $250,000 especially earmarked for the drought stricken area of East Gippsland? If the State Government has not utilised that relief money, will the Minister remind the Victorian Government that this money is readily available? Alternatively, if the grant has already been used for its stated purpose, will he take urgent action to ascertain what assistance is required now to relieve the present hardship. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General.  Mr President,  it will be necessary for me to refer briefly to a letter over the signature of  Senator J.  T. Kane dated 19 September 1973, which is today, which I understand was distributed to all Australian Labor Party senators and members of the House of Representatives. I refer to the first paragraph of the letter so that the question will be intelligible. 
-The subject of the matter of urgency raised by  Senator Greenwood-  namely, inflation- is without doubt one of the greatest problems bedevilling this nation and like nations of the Western world, although not just nations of the Western world. This problem is generally known. Inflation eats into the very heart of our national economy. More particularly, it erodes the purchasing power of individuals, particularly people who are recipients of fixed incomes. It is regrettable that debates in this chamber on matters of such importance tend to degenerate into purely a political scoring game. 
I must say at this stage that I disagree with the claim made by  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Drake-Brockman  that Labor did not inherit inflation. I recall  Senator Greenwood  relying on a Treasury White Paper published in 1971. To support the view that I have expressed, namely, that Labor did inherit inflation, I propose to refer briefly to the Treasury White Paper entitled 'The Australian Economy 1972' published in July 1972. The following statement is made on page  1  of that document: 
Our unemployment problems have remained much less severe than those of most countries. But our rate of inflation in 1971 was as steep as in most developed economies and the determination of our exchange rate involved no less difficulty than attended the general currency realignment finally achieved in December. 
It goes on to say: 
Within 1 97 1 -72, the economic situation has been changing in response to complex forces. But with excessive inflation and above normal unemployment persisting, the year has been notable for the range of policy instruments used and the flexibility of policy adjustments. 
I make this final brief quotation from this document: 
The major problems of economic policy in 1971-72 were three fold. First, there has been an excessive rate of price increase carried over from 1970 and continuing throughout 1971 and into 1972. 
When we achieved office in December 1972, according to the Commonwealth Statistician more than 100,000 persons were unemployed. I think I have said in this chamber on more than one occasion that the Statistician's figure is a very reasonable guide to the level of unemployment; but it is never the actual number of those unemployed, which is always in excess of the number of people who go to the trouble of registering for employment. 
It is interesting to look back over the Press cut-  tings of yesteryear in order to gauge the performance of the previous Government. The Melbourne 'Sun' of 21 January 1972 carried the banner headline: 'Prices Spiral is steepest in 15 years '. I will quote briefly from this article, which was written at a time when 130,000 people were registered for employment. The article stated: 
Prices rose faster in the past three months than they have for IS years. 
They went up by an average of 2.3 per cent. 
The article referred to the increase in Hobart, which at 3.3 per cent was the biggest recorded for the December quarter of 1971 and matched the increase in the consumer price index of the July quarter of 1973. It would have been quite feasible at that time to have said: 'Well, that represents an average annual cost of living increase of something in the vicinity of 13 per cent'. But that increase in prices, of course, coincided with the highest unemployment figures for 9 years. The following day, the then Treasurer - 
-Mr Snedden. The 'Australian' newspaper of 21 January 1972 carried an article under the banner headline: 'Wages under control-Snedden'. Of course, the previous Government gave constant attention to laying the whole blame for the inflationary tendencies in the economy at the door of the people employed in industry. The article reports what  Mr Snedden  said, and I can recall that he never challenged this statement. It states: 
The Federal Government was gaining more control over wage inflation through its economic policies, the Federal Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  said yesterday. 

 Mr Snedden said in Sydney the economic climate was preventing the unions pressing for over-award payments, a major contributor to inflation. 
We have achieved what we set out to do in that we have created an environment in which over-award payments are depressed', he said. 
In other words, the technique employed by the former government at a time when everyone was concerned, as we are now, with the inflationary trend in the economy was to cut back on public spending and not to increase the payments to recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits and the like. As a result it was able to be shown at the time by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at the Melbourne University that those who were on fixed incomes were in fact below the breadline. 
What has happened since the Australian Labor Party has come into office? It is true that the consumer price index for the quarter ended December 1972 showed an increase of 1.2 per cent and that the one for the quarter ended March 1 973 showed an increase of 2. 1 per cent. It is interesting to note that a breakdown of the increases in the consumer price index will show that the major portion of them has been attibutable to meat prices and food prices generally. By and large those who produce the foods that we eat have not been the recipients of the benefits of those increases; I am not saying that at all. The consumer price index for the July quarter showed an alarming increase of 3.3 per cent, but a breakdown of that 3.3 per cent showed that meat and other food prices accounted for no less than 5 1 per cent of the increase. In the quarter before that meat prices represented 44 per cent of the increase and the food group as a whole 62 per cent. 
Why has this happened? Has it been just because there has been a change of government or has it been as a consequence of the fact that during the course of the general election the Australian Labor Party announced as part of its policy speech that it intended to deal with inflation and that it intimated precisely what it intended to do? Among other things the Australian Labor Party said at the time that it was determined to set up a Prices Justification Tribunal and to set up a joint parliamentary committee on prices to review prices in key sectors of industry and the economy. It also undertook to strengthen the trade practices laws. It is interesting to note- I intend to quote from only one article to substantiate my argument on this point because I do not have the time at my disposal to quote from others- that in the Melbourne 'Age ' of Wednesday, 18 July 1973 in an editorial which had 
Thunder of Inflation' as its heading the following comment appeared: 
In fairness, some part of inflation's sudden surge has been caused by the rush to raise prices before  Mr Whitlam  's Prices Justification Tribunal becomes a fact of life on August 1 . 
Honourable Senators opposite might question the quotation because it is only from an editorial. Therefore I propose to quote from an article on page 17 of the same newspaper. The article appeared under the sub-heading of 'C.O.L. Rise "Alarming" ', which contains the words of none other than the economist of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures,  Mr Ray  Price. The article reads: 
The economist of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures  (Mr Ray Price)  said the announcement would come as 'a nasty shock ' for Federal Cabinet, now preparing the Budget. 
The index meant that inflation had risen to 'an absolutely critical' situation. 
We have to go back to 195 1-52 to match inflation of this scale'. 
Among the factors that presumably have contributed to the present disturbing increase, two stand out'. 
First, food prices had undoubtedly contributed. Second, it is another world phenomenon that the introduction of price justification laws precipitates price increases ahead of their time '. 
I think honourable senators will agree with me when I say that that is a large part, if not the whole, of the reason why there has been such an upward trend in the inflationary situation in Australia. To point this up quite dramatically I refer to an article which appeared on page 5 of today's Daily Telegraph' under the banner line '500 per cent Mark-ups on Frozen Foods'. Again I am not in any way being critical of the producers. Among other things, the article states: 
Retailers and manufacturers were splitting profit mark-ups of between 200 and SOO per cent on some lines of frozen foods;  Mrs Phyllis  Johnson said yesterday. 

 Mrs Johnson is the general secretary of the Campaign Against Rising Prices Association (CARP). 
She said the lines included peas, beans, potatoes, tomatoes and corn. 
I want to complete my reference to this article by quoting another paragraph of it, which reads: 
The NSW Government commissioned CARP to prepare a submission for the parliamentary joint committee on prices by November. 
So it is quite clear that what I have said can be supported by factual evidence. As  Mr Price  of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures said, we are witnessing in this country the phenomenon of the projection of some type of machinery to regulate prices and an immediate pushing up of prices by business interests in anticipation of the establishment of such machinery. 
What has the Labor Government done since . coming into office to attempt to curb this worldwide problem? I have in front of me three or four books that I have been reading on the subject and I have read articles by Professor Harry G. Johnson, Professor of Economics at the London School of Economics about it. It is quite obvious that there is no economist in the world, name whom you wish, who has the answer to the problem of inflation and there is no simple panacea to overcome it. What we have done is, first of all, appreciate our dollar to try to insulate the Australian economy against the side effects of the American market. In December we appreciated our dollar by 7.5 per cent. It was not long after that that the American dollar was depreciated by 1 1. 1 1 per cent and we were told that great disaster would be wrought upon the Australian economy. There has been no evidence to that effect. We again appreciated our dollar on 9 September. That is one of the instruments or weapons in its economic armoury that the Government has used to try to insulate our economy against the effects of world inflation. 
I can assure members of the Australian Country Party that I have evidence in my office which proves that right across the board, from the cane grower in Queensland to the farmer in the Gippsland area of Vittoria, the decision to reduce tariffs by 25 per cent was welcomed. It was on 19 July that the Government reduced tariffs across the board by 25 per cent. I can show honourable senators opposite articles which appeared in farmers' journals from as far north as the canefields of Queensland to the Gippsland area of Victoria about this decision being welcome. As a matter of fact it was long overdue. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poke)-  Order! I am sorry to say that your time also is overdue,  Senator Brown. 
I present the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on the petition relating to the transfer of social service entitlements. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to make a brief statement in relation to the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Treasurer aware that people living in the East Gippsland district of Victoria, which was severely affected by drought last year, are still suffering from the aftermath of that prolonged drought and require continued financial assistance. 
) Has the State Government availed itself of the Australian Government's grant of $250,000 specially earmarked for the drought stricken area of East Gippsland. 
If the State government has not utilised this relief money, will the Treasurer remind the State government that this money is readily available or alternatively, if the grant has already been used for its stated purpose, will he take urgent action to ascertain what assistance is required now to relieve the present hardship being experienced. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is it true as reported in the Press that the former New South Wales Agent-General in London,  Sir John  Pagan, has been the subject of investigation by the Department of Customs and Excise? What offence is he said to have committed and what action has been taken? 
-I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether the Fisheries Division of the Department of Primary Industry has completed its inquiry and reported on the Cheynes Beach Whaling Co. Ltd. If so, is the Minister in a position to table the report in the Senate? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Has his attention been drawn to advertisements in several Australian newspapers under the caption 'Rhodesia Welcomes You'? Among other things, the advertisement offers assisted passages to Australian skilled workers and professional personnel to migrate to Rhodesia. Do these advertisements constitute a breach of Australia's international obligations as a member of the United Nations? If so, what action does the Government intend to take to preserve our nation's integrity in the eyes of the international community? 
I think that it would be fair to say that until such time as  Senator Carrick  made his contribution, the level of debate by each and every honourable senator who took part in it was both rational and objective. I think even  Senator Carrick  acknowledges the tremendous demands on the physical and mental resources of each and every member of this chamber. He introduced so many matters - 
And red herrings, as my colleague  Senator Poyser  has just said, that he lost sight of the genuine intention of endeavouring to find a rationale for the operation of this chamber. I think that the contribution made by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson was a very sound one. I am pleased to learn that he is one of the members of the delegation who will be attending a meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Union at which the whole structure and the procedures of our parliamentary systems will be examined in depth and detail. I look forward to his return from that meeting with a report which can give some guidance to this Parliament for future reference for the purpose of restructuring if necessary and altering our procedures to meet this time in 1973. 
I firmly believe that our prime responsibility is to ensure the effective and efficient operation of this Senate. No one can convince me that when honourable senators are in this place- when I say this place ' I mean in the Senate chamber and in the precincts of Parliament House itself- for between 14 and 16 hours on every day of sitting that makes for efficient and effective legislative processes. I am sure that honourable senators cannot agree that such hours allow that. I remember when I first arrived in this place. Of course, at that time I was in Opposition and this is not a criticism of the then government because it found itself in the same sort of bind as we find ourselves in today; the difference being- and I do not say this in any form of criticism- that we have endeavoured to lay down a more extensive legislative program which makes even more demands than previously on every individual member of this Senate. I remember my first reaction when I was in this place for about a month. I thought to myself: 'How can they really effectively think things through? ' I came to the conclusion that most of the legislation was passed through this chamber by exhaustion and not after rational and objective debate. In fact, I am sureand I have said this from the Chair when I have had the privilege of sitting in the position which my colleague presently occupies- that much of our time is wasted in the Senate- for 2 reasons. The first is that when honourable senators get physically and mentally tired it is inevitable that they will discuss matters outside the subject matter that is really the concern of the Senate. We all contribute to this. I am sure that if the mental and physical attributes were sharper than they are after a week or two in this place, the Chair would be able to manage the affairs of this chamber much more efficiently, and honourable senators would be seized of the need to concentrate their attention on the matter before the Chair. I am sure that we could get through twice as much work more efficiently and more effectively. It is not true to say that because a person is given 2 or 3 hours in which to speak it will prove any more successful than if that person knows that he has only one hour in which to speak. 
You can do a person harm. I have found that people seem to stay on their feet for too long and they get to the stage where they burble, ramble and repeat. I believe that this is a consequence of long hours when we become physically and mentally tired, and it is not in the best interests of the Australian people from the point of view of our being their legislators. If the suggestion that we are putting to the Senate is carried, it does not necessarily mean that that is the end of the matter. I think that there would be an obligation on both sides of the chamber to ensure that from time to time we review our hours of sitting. 
I agree in part with what  Senator Carrick  said- and it would be one of the few things he said that seemed to have any relevance to the subject matter before the Chair- that we should be sitting more hours. I mean not more hours in the day but more days on which we can sit more hours. Instead of our coming here for a 3-week sitting of 3 days a week, I would much prefer to come here for a 3, 4 or 5 weeks sitting of 4 days a week, if necessary, but again restricting the hours in the sense that the hours we sit enable this place to be workable, and individual senators can sustain a state of alertness which is critically important to the Commonwealth of Australia. 
I have no hesitation in saying here and now that I support these proposals. A lot of what has been said by the Opposition, particularly by  Senator Carrick,  was designed only to cloud the issue. He introduced so many issues that one lost sight of what was really before the Senate. I hope that this motion is carried and that in due course we will have an opportunity to review the whole structure of our operation and our whole procedures. I believe that in due course this will make for a better Parliament and for better decision making. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the problem some breeders of merino rams are experiencing, namely, that many of their young rams are found to be sexually inhibited? What research facilities are available to such breeders for the purpose of ascertaining the causation of and remedial measures necessary to correct these inadequacies which can be deleterious to the future wellbeing of the Australian wool industry? 

 -Mr President, I notice that  Senator Byrne  has risen also. 
-I will yield to  Senator Byrne. 
-I want to state quite emphatically at the outset that I am opposed to the motion that this debate on the second reading be adjourned and the adjourned debate made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. Likewise I oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood  which would effectively set this Bill aside for further consideration until 1974. Before I retail to the listening audience what has transpired in this debate I want to remind the Senate and the Australian community that in the policy speech of my leader preceding the election of the Labor Government on 2 December 1972 we gave a commitment in respect of prices in these terms: 
We will establish a prices justification tribunal. 
We will establish a parliamentary standing committee to review prices in key sectors. 
We will strengthen the laws against restrictive trade practices. 
Everyone in the Australian community, including even honourable senators opposite, recognise that at the moment Australia is experiencing galloping inflation. The recent quarterly consumer price index figures indicated a rise of 3.6 per cent over the figures for the previous 3 months. The figures for the 3 months prior to that revealed an increase of 3.3 per cent. This means that we are facing the possibility of an inflationary rate in Australia of between 14 per cent and 15 per cent a year. 
One of the reasons why we on the G overnment side are anxious to have this legislation passed through all stages at the earliest opportunity is to allow the Government to have one other instrument, among many others in its armory, in an attempt to regulate inflation and to cause it to recede. 
I want to retail briefly what has happened to date in connection with this debate. A motion was carried which meant that the second reading debate would be adjourned. My leader, the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  opposed that motion but it was carried. He then moved that the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. On the surface the motion for the debate to be adjourned appeared to be quite an innocent one. However we on the Government side had knowledge- I am not sure from what source it came- that there was a possibility of an amendment being moved which would have the effect of deferring consideration of this Bill until 1974. 
-I had not read that section. It is interesting to note that while the Leader of the Government was speaking  Senator Webster  interjected and said: 'Yes, it ought to be adjourned until 1974.' That happened notwithstanding that the Leader of the Government said that the Government was prepared to adjourn the debate for another month if the Opposition was prepared to go on with the debate and allow up to dispense with this Bill in the course of this Budget session. We must remember that this Bill was introduced into the Senate on Thursday, 27 
September, and that tomorrow is 25 October. It will be one month tomorrow since this Bill was brought into the Senate. My leader,  Senator Murphy,  was prepared to give the Opposition another month, making the period 2 months in all. If  Senator Greenwood  reads Hansard tomorrow he will see that he said that he would give the Opposition 3 weeks to a month if it were prepared to agree that this Bill should be passed in the course of this Budget session. Notwithstanding that statement,  Senator Greenwood  rose in his place and moved an amendment which, if passed, will effectively set this important Bill aside until 1974.  Senator Greenwood  conceded in the course of his remarks that there was a need for laws to deal with the numerous manifest malpractices in both commerce and industry. 
I invite the honourable senator to read Hansard tomorrow. I made a note of what he said at the time. Your prime concern was what this law will mean to business and commerce. It was only after an interjection by my leader that you remembered that consumers were concerned also. We are concerned with consumers as well as commerce and industry. In my view you insulted not only the intelligence of honourable senators but the intelligence of the Australian community because the example you gave - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! Would you please address the chair and not  Senator Greenwood. 
I am replying to what he said in the course of the debate. I repeat, through you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that  Senator Greenwood  not only insulted the intelligence of honourable senators, he insulted the intelligence of the Australian community because as an argument why this Bill should not pass through all stages he referred to a little grocer in a country town who may decide to form a company. He was worried about what this Bill will mean to him. I credit you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  with sufficient intelligence to know what that would not be the case at all.  Senator Greenwood  also expressed concern about the possible retroactive application of existing agreements. This Bill has to be passed through the second reading stage before it is dealt with in the Committee stage. We must remember that the combined Opposition parties represent the majority in this House. Honourable senators opposite would have ample opportunity to provide adequate protection. They would have ample opportunity to ensure that any retroactivity would not have a deleterious effect on such people. I believe that that was nothing more than a red herring. 
One point interested me particularly. I think it is a question which should be posed. What reason has any commercial or business undertaking to fear this Bill if it conducts its business and commercial transactions in a legitimate way? In my view it has no need to fear; none at all. I say again that it is wrong for the Senate to frustrate the Government's commitment to the people and to frustrate the will of the people, because it has a mandate. 

 Senator Greenwood said also that my leader, in the course of his remarks, was prejudging the issue. I recall that remark because I made a note of it. I see that  Senator Greenwood  acquiesces with my assessment of what he said. He was replying to my leader's accusation of delaying tactics by the Opposition in connection with the passage of this important Bill. In  Senator Greenwood  's closing remarks he said that his Party, or the Opposition, was as much committed to an effective Trade Practices Act as was the Government. Quite frankly, that statement is downright, undiluted political humbug. Let us look back over the record to see what the situation was. The Liberal-Country Party coalition Government was in office for 23 years. In 1 962 the then AttorneyGeneral, now the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, evidently was commissioned by the coalition Government to prepare a Trade Practices Bill and subsequently a Bill was introduced in 1 965. 1 know, and it is universally known, that any resemblance between  Sir Garfield  Barwick 's original concept of an effective Trade Practices Bill and what was introduced in the 2 Houses of Parliament in 1965 was purely accidental. It was so emasculated - 
That is known generally. The original concept of  Sir Garfield  Barwick was so emasculated that the Bill represented nothing more than a hollow gesture and an ineffective piece of legislation. In 1971 the Australian Council of Trade Unions became involved in a commercial enterprise and exercised its influence on some of the biggest trading and manufacturing companies in this country. One company in particular was Dunlop (Australia) Pty Ltd. It was the ACTU which forced those companies to discontinue a practice broadly and generally known to operate, and by the then Government to operate. That practice is known, and was known then, as resale price maintenance. Every honourable senator sitting opposite tonight knows that what I say is true. In due course the Government of the day was induced to modify or amend the existing Trade Practices Act to regularise and validate what the ACTU had achieved outside this place. In my view that was an indictment of the performance of the Opposition parties at that time. 
There is a clear need for an effective Trade Practices Act, and it is urgently needed. It would be one of the critically important weapons in the armory of responsible government with which to fight inflation. I want to direct the attention of the Senate briefly to the sixth annual report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices for the year ended 30 June 1973. It is worth quoting what was said in that report under the heading Chapter I-General'. In paragraph 1.3 the Commissioner said: 
Parliamentary concern and the increased public concern over restrictive trade practices make it clear that the climate has changed. 
That is something that the Opposition has not recognised. He continued: 
In particular, action against restrictive trade practices is now seen, in Australia and overseas, as one of the measures that may help to contain inflation. 
Effective competition makes it harder to put prices up and makes it more necessary to pursue increased efficiency to keep down the costs that affect prices. To the extent that effective competition is inhibited by restrictive trade practices inflationary trends are harder to stop or slow down. 
They are not the words of  Senator Bill  Brown; they are the words of a man who has some very intimate and detailed experience in this field. I think that even the Opposition would concede that there is some substance in what the Commissioner of Trade Practices says in his report. I repeat what I said earlier: We are facing a period- and in fact we are in the throes of a period- of galloping inflation. 

 - Senator Greenwood asks Which Government contributed to it?' We inherited part of it. 
Wait a minute. In addition to this, reliable, competent economists are of the opinion that 60 per cent of Australia 's inflation is caused by overseas influences. That is not challenged. If that is true, and if what the Commissioner of Trade Practices said is correct and we could effectively implement some measures by way of restrictive trade practices legislation, it would be reasonable to say that we could reduce inflation by at least another 10 per cent to 15 per cent. But the Opposition was not prepared to pass a Bill for an Act to enable a price referendum to be conducted; it opposed that measure. In other words, the Opposition has opposed every measure- this Bill is only one of them, but it is the critically important one- that we have attempted to pass through this chamber which would have given the economic tools, so to speak, with which to manage the economic affairs of this nation. Yet at the same time the Opposition has the temerity and audacity to charge this Government with being irresponsible in handling the state of inflation in this country at the present time. For the Senate to delay this Bill, in my view, is an act of economic sabotage against the Australian people, and honourable senators opposite stand condemned, and they will stand condemned in the eyes of the Australian people, for their delaying tactics in relation to this important piece of legislation. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to an article entitled 'Commandos train for PNG "extraction" operation' which appeared in the Australian Financial Review' of Monday, 22 August 1 973? Briefly, the article states: 
Incursion and extraction' are military terms being used to describe an exercise to take place in Papua New Guinea next February in which the elite of the Australian Army, the Special Air Service Regiment  (SASR),  will put the final touches on a contingency plan drawn up in case of trouble in the post independence era. 
Hypothetical exercises based on a threat to the 'stability' - 
I address my question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. In announcing the 25 per cent tariff reduction of 18 July 1 973 the Prime Minister stated that in future by-law administration will be more flexible. Will the Minister advise the Senate what action, if any, he has taken to implement this decision? 
-In anticipation of an opportunity in the future for a fullscale debate on the report by the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare with respect to repatriation, I wish to make some brief remarks at this stage. I indicate at the outset that the presentation of the report by  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield was not necessarily an act of chivalry on my part, although I must confess that my actions could be categorised in that way. Rather was this a recognition of the work of  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield as  chairman  of this Committee. She was  chairman  at the time when this inquiry commenced. Eighteen months have elapsed between that time and the finalisation of the report. She saw the inquiry through that period. 
One of the regrettable features of the report is to be found in paragraph 4 of the 'Preface'. This shows, regrettably, a lack of continuity in the membership of this Committee. Notwithstanding that fact, I do not think that, in the final analysis, this has militated against the quality of the work by the Committee. But I do feel that it probably in some part did have an effect, particularly when the business 'end of the inquiry began with the compilation of the Committee's report and recommendations to the Senate. 
The most important chapter of the report is the one dealing with the recommendations of the Committee. As I said earlier, I do not propose to go into detail at this stage. But if honourable senators take the opportunity to examine in some detail the Committee's report as a whole, and particularly its recommendations, they will see that there is a genuine attempt to restructure the decision making apparatus of the existing repatriation system. This will require- the Government has acted in part on one of our recommendations in this respect- the decision making tribunal to give reasons for its decisions. 
This, in my view, is an advance as it will give rise to a tribunal being required to set out in writing the reasons for its decisions, whether they be in favour of or against an applicant. In turn, consequent upon a decision, an applicant will be in the position of being able to ascertain precisely whether there is any worthwhile opportunity for him to lodge an appeal against that decision. We have recommended also that, in the case of an applicant wishing to go further than simply the next appeal tribunal or other tribunal, he should be given some help by way of assistance from a legal bureau. 
I wish to make one other point. This is with respect to the Reservations in the report. It is a unique occasion for a former  chairman  of this Committee, namely  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield, to be afforded the opportunity to present a report on behalf of the Committee and at one and the same time to be a party to what is referred to as 'Reservations'. This is, of course, a minority report. At least this does point up something of the ecumenical and democratic nature of the Committee as a whole. I am greatly concerned to read one part of the Reservations to which  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield made particular reference when presenting her remarks. I wish to quote briefly portion of the Reservations. The Reservations state: 
Prior to the change of Government, the Committee had discussed objectively and agreed to recommend that a change be made from the presently existing rights to make new claims for war-caused injuries from ex-servicemen from the 1914 and 1939 Wars who, like their civilian counterparts, served only within Australia. It should be pointed out that the proposed recommendation was limited to new claims only and therefore did not exclude claims for deterioration for already entitled disability. Significantly some Government members have now changed their views. 
One would have to be extremely charitable not to recognise that that statement implies that, prior to the change of government on 2 December last, members of the then Opposition who were members of this Committee had a particular view and that, because of the change in Government, those same members had altered their points of view. I take umbrage at that statement. I contest it. I repudiate it. 
I do so for one reason in particular. I speak as  Senator Bill  Brown from Victoria. Through no fault of my own, I was absent from meetings of the Committee for approximately 8 months or 9 months. I cannot recall whether I was a party to an alleged general agreement such as is implied in the Reservations. Irrespective of whether I was or was not, I formed my opinion objectively. I want that to be clearly understood. I do not for one moment question the right of any senator as a member of a committee of the Senate Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees group to write a minority report. But I do take strong exception to what is implied in the part of the Reservations that I have quoted. 
Finally, I simply say this: I could never bring myself to the point of agreeing to dispossess people of a right that they have enjoyed for years and that they continue to enjoy, people who obviously still have an entitlement to believe that they have a right to some benefits. The matter is as simple as that. I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
-I intimate briefly that the object of my proposal was to seek leave to continue my remarks. I did not anticipate other senators wishing to speak now. I would have no objection to that. I intended to move that the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. That would have reserved my position. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the problem some breeders of merino rams are experiencing that many of their young rams are found to be sexually inhibited. 
What research facilities are available to such breeders for the purpose of ascertaining the causation of, and immediate measures necessary to correct, this inadequacy which can be deleterious to the future well-being of the Australian wool industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article entitled "Commandos train for Papua New Guinea 'extraction' operation" in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 22 October 1 973, in which it was stated that use of the Special Air Service Regiment ofthe Australian Army is part of a contingency plan which has been drawn up in case of trouble in the post-independence era in Papua New Guinea. 
Will the Minister assure the Parliament and the people ' that Australia will not be a party to furnishing any military aid in an internal security situation in Papua New Guinea. 
I present the following petition from 28 Citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned Citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
The Australian people need and desire a health insurance scheme which automatically and fairly covers all Australians against the costs of health care. 
The Australian Labor Government has a clear mandate to introduce such a scheme as soon as possible. 
The proposals outlined in the Government's 'White Paper' entitled 'The Australian Government's Health Insurance Program' allow for 
A fair system of financing health insurance based on a person 's capacity to pay, so favouring lower income earners, in comparison with the present scheme which favours those earning more. 
The continued generous financing of our system of religious and charitable hospitals, with no threat to their independence. 
The continuation of our freedom of choice to choose our own doctor and the sort of hospital care we want. 
The possibility of controlling the rise in the cost of medical care in Australia, to benefit us as Australian taxpayers. 
We therefore urge Members of the Senate to support the Australian Government's legislation introducing universal health insurance and not delay such legislation when it is introduced in the Senate. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Was the Australian Broadcasting Commission recently offered a film on the events of the coup d d 'etat in Chile last September? If so, can the Minister say why this film has not been shown? 
Has the Minister for the Media referred repeatedly to the fact that the boom in the Australian film and television industries has pointed up the shortage of script writers? If so, what, if anything, is being done by the Government to assist in the training of more script writers? 
I present the following petition from 5 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
that for religion to be spiritual, and government to be liberal and egalitarian, religion and government need to be kept separate. 
that this principle is fully recognised in section 1 16 of the Australian Constitution. 
that the taxing of any citizen to propagate or support any religion is contrary to this principle, and a violation of human right. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that part II, section 3 of the proposed Bill of Human Rights which now reads: 
No one shall be subject to coercion which will impair his freedom to have or to adopt a belief or religion of his choice, bc amended by adding to it the words: and no revenue derived in any way from any Australian citizen shall be appropriated by the Australian Government, or by a State Government, or by a Municipal Government, for the propagation or support of any religion. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Petitions in identical terms were presented by Senators Guilfoyle and Primmer. 
Petitions received. 
I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on the petition relating to ultrasonic aids for the blind and move: 
That the report be printed. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator BROWN (Victoria)-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The report sets out the terms of the petition and states that the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare invited submissions from the Australian Government departments and from organisations for the blind, including those who initiated the petition. Supplementary oral evidence was taken at a one-day public hearing when the Committee also had an opportunity to examine the various aids. The Committee considered, in view of the number of aids available to the blind, particularly in the field of mobility techniques, and the fact that ultrasonic aids are still in the developmental or evaluative stage, that the Australian Government should not implement a program for the general issue of ultrasonic devices to blind persons at this stage. The Government should, however, recognise the need for research into new aids and should support suitable research by subsidy. The voluntaryorganisations working in the field of welfare of the blind should be encouraged also to continue to expand their work. The Committee believes that a government department or independent authority should watch and monitor developments in the field of aids to the blind. I wish to place on record my appreciation of the work of the staff in assisting the Committee in expediting the inquiry and preparation of the report. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether he can say what road building programs would be affected if cuts were made on this type of expenditure should  Mr Snedden  's so-called antiinflation plan be implemented. 
I present report No. 1 from the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare dealing with rehabilitation services for the disadvantaged (handicapped). 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
If one looks closely at the amendment moved by the Opposition, one cannot take it seriously. The amendment reads: 
Leave out all words after'That', insert- the Bill be deferred till this day 6 months because- 
1 ) this Bill was defeated in the Senate on 2 April 1974, which is only one week ago; 
That is true. The amendment continues: 
this Bill is introduced not to allow for further consideration and debate, but simply for statistical purposes: 
Let us look at that statement. This  Bill  was introduced, in the first instance, in the House of Representatives on 4 December 1973 and was transmitted to the Senate on 13 December 1973. The Opposition has had nigh on 4 months to give serious consideration to the major questions contained in this Bill. The amendment continues: 
The Government, introducing the same Bills on a number of occasions on the one subject matter, seeks to mislead the Australian people as to the actual number of matters opposed and defeated by the Opposition. The Senate is part of the legislative process of this nation and it should not be abused and used as a scoreboard by the Government for political purposes. 

 Senator Laucke, who moved the amendment, highlighted the major legislative program of the Government. I understand that it is a record which stands since Federation. More than 250 Bills have been introduced in both Houses. He pointed out that only a limited number of Bills had been rejected, deferred or dealt with similarly by the Senate. The critically important issue on which he did not make a point was that the major issues have been steadfastly rejected by the Opposition. Although it may be a fuzzy term, I repeat that we have a mandate from the Australian people on most of those Bills which are of critical importance to the Australian people. 
I shall test the bona fides of the Opposition, because it is evident to me that the Opposition is now rehashing the debate in which it had an opportunity to engage previously. The Opposition has had 4 months to examine the Bill. Now it is suggesting that the Bill be stood over for 6 months. I propose to test the Opposition's bona fides by moving: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="059232197404100_22_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="059232197404100_22_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Laucke's amendment)  be left out. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Is he aware that it is now 24 years since the laws of this Parliament were consolidated? Does he recall informing the Senate in October last year that a new consolidation of Australian Acts would take place this year? Can he inform the Senate on what progress has been made in this consolidation? Are we likely to see any results this year? 
-With great respect to  Senator Rae,  naturally and understandably he selected a period when question time did run for about 80 minutes. 
-And I think you said that the average for that period was 80 minutes right? 
Obviously you deliberately or unwittingly overlooked the fact that during the course of the life of this Parliament or the last Parliament, the Twenty-eighth Parliament, which you and your colleagues deliberately set out to destroy- your own leader announced this on 10 April 1974, and that is on record at page 910 of Hansard- there were occasions when question time went for 2 hours. You check the record. You know, you are not really genuine. Somebody mentioned constitutional democracy. I name  Senator Greenwood  in this instance. If ever I have heard such fraudulent political rubbish it has come from you,  Senator Greenwood. 
I have not finished with Marshall Green, or you either. 
You are a colleague of his, as a matter of fact. You were meeting on the night on which I spoke in the city square in Melbourne, on 4 July 1974. Now that you have raised the question I will answer it. You were meeting with him not far from where I was addressing the public and raising the question of the democratic processes of this nation. You were meeting with Marshall Green and other people such as  Mr Don  Chipp. Don Chipp,  Senator Greenwood  and  Mr McManus  were celebrating 4 July, the anniversary of that great day when America, after defeating the British as a colonial power, obtained its independence. So do not start talking to me about constitutional democracy,  Senator Greenwood,  because quite seriously you are politically fraudulent. You are acting in the same position as one Denis Warner who obviously is a great friend of Marshall Green, a great defender of this hatchet man. I use that term again. I say again that you are now taking over the role which that gentleman of the Melbourne 'Herald' cannot sustain in this place. You were foolish enough to do so, with great respect to your training and discipline as a lawyer and a Q.C. That honour must come cheap for the simple reason that you were stupid enough to move in on the first occasion to give notice in this place of a motion which would dispossess your colleagues of the right to tear us to pieces at question time provided, of course you thought you could do so. That is how clever your are,  Senator Greenwood.  I hope  Senator Greenwood  has the decency to give me at least 2 minutes notice of when he is going to pull this on because I welcome it. I have made my remarks publicly and I make them again in this House. 
Getting back to what we were talking about before  Senator Greenwood  was foolish enough to talk about constitutional democracy - 
-No, I did not. You did. Even your colleague the other night, when commending those new senators for being succinct, precise and concise in their addresses turned to you of all people when he talked about what happens to some people in the Senate chamber. It has been said that you could talk under water with a mouthful of sand. I think everybody in the Senate agrees with that remark, even some on your own side, because you were left like a shag on a rock one night, just prior to 8 May 1970 when there was that great demonstration for your Government's participation in the involvement of our youngsters in Vietnam. You yourself never had the guts to do the things that they were prepared to do and which you forced them to do by conscription. Yet you have the temerity to stand up and talk about constitutional democracy. You are a fraud- I use that term deliberatelypolitically in every sense of the word. 
You had to take a point of order, and I am pleased that you have. 
-Can I speak to the point of order? I referred to political fraudulence. It means one thing and you, as a constitutional lawyer, a Q.C., who was previously the first law officer of this country, ought to understand what that means. Obviously you do not. I have no intention of withdrawing that terminology which I expressed in describing you as being politically fraudulent, because that is precisely what you are. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that a Federal Government grant of $250,000 to the Knox City Council in Victoria to enable that Council to embark upon a major building program of kindergartens and preschool centres has been withheld by the Victorian Government? Has the Victorian Government had this money since April 1974? Was the grant conditional upon part of the money being spent before the end of last month? If so, will the action of the Victorian Government deprive the Knox City Council of access to the grant of $250,000? What action can the Federal Government take to ensure that its assistance to not only the Knox City Council but also other city and shire councils will not be sabotaged in the future in this way? 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the existing National Health Scheme involves a vast amount of public money distributed by private Benefit 
Societies and that it is necessary to joint one of these to qualify for the full Government Health subsidy. 
That it is far too expensive and discriminates against lower income groups a lot of whom cannot afford the cost of membership for private medical treatment. 
That it is inequitable, inefficient and does not satisfy the needs of the community. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that you will urgently legislate for a Comprehensive National Health Insurance Scheme, financed from taxation, and covering everybody instead of only those who can now afford it. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation been drawn to the criticism that the extension of repatriation benefits to members of the defence forces has changed the whole concept of war service underlying repatriation? 
My question is directed to  Senator Townley.  It concerns the notice of motion No. 5 standing on the notice paper in his name. I am relying on standing order 98 and also on the precedent that has been established in the Senate to enable me to ask a question of a senator in charge of a notice of motion. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Following the decision of the previous Labor Government to cut tariffs by 25 per cent across the board, is the Minister aware that on the published calculations of the Graziers Association of New South Wales the high tariff barriers set by the previous Liberal-Country Party coalition Government were costing farmers about $500m a year? Is it also a fact that every identifiable farmers' organisation throughout the country welcomed and applauded the Government's decision? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the reported comment on this matter by the Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Mr Doug  Anthony, wherein he described the Australian Government's decision as cowardly? 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the present systems of financing of hospital and medical care in Australia are outdated, complex, unwieldy, and provide inadequate or no security against health care expenditure for a substantial proportion of the people of Australia; 
That the costs associated with the present schemes fall disproportionately on people having low and middle incomes; 
That there is an urgent need for a new national health insurance scheme, to which each person receiving an income should contribute an amount which is equitably calculated on the basis of that income, and which provides adequate security to each person against the costs of care for every kind of illness and injury. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the parliament will speedily pass appropriate legislation to bring the benefits of an equitably financed, universal, and comprehensive health insurance scheme to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. What is the current position on the proposal to establish a casualty department at the Repatriation General Hospital, Concord, New South Wales? 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I intimate to the Senate that I support the original proposition moved by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  I oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Durack.  I say at the outset that I never cease to be amazed by the comments made by honourable senators opposite. Those comments disclose a complete lack of confidence in the initiative, the know-how, the business acumen, the skills and the ability of the Australian peoplethe business people and the work force- to engage in industry whether it be the manufacturing of aircraft, in the field of science or medicine or in the extractive industries. I repeat that I never cease to be amazed at the lack of confidence that the Opposition discloses in our own Australian people. I include also the captains of our industries and those persons who would be employed in the industries to which I have referred. 
Although the terminology 'mandate' has gone out of fashion since the Labor Government was successful in obtaining office on 2 December 1972, I still believe it has some relevance. A number of articles written by leading authorities disclose that the mandate is an important consideration and one of the cornerstones of our parliamentary system, as we understand it in this country and in like countries where the bicameral system based on the mother country's houses of parliament operates. It is the only way in which an opinion can be obtained from the people based on a program presented by the respective leaders of the competing parties for support to form a government. Having obtained that support the government, of course, is formed in the lower House. I still believe that that is the way in which politics in this country should be conducted. Evidently, as I said earlier, the word 'mandate', its meaning and its application in terms of Australian politics seem to have been struck from the record. I presume that the Oxford, Webster and other dictionaries have likewise deleted the word 'mandate' from the English language. 
I think it is important, first of all, to establish that in fact the Australian Labor Party obtained the support of the Australian people. I will not use the word 'mandate' because, as I say, it is out of fashion. I point out to honourable senators that the Australian Labor Party obtained the expressed support of the Australian people to do the very thing that we have attempted to do on this occasion for the third time-that is, to establish a minerals and energy commission. I refer to my leader's speech at the Blacktown Civic Centre on 13 November 1972. This speech is in print for everybody to see. On foreign investment he said: 
Rural industries no longer hold the dominating position in Australia's export trade that they once did. But they have been traditionally and overwhelmingly the industries which Australians have controlled, industries from which Australiansall Australians- have derived the benefit and profit, and industries for which Australians- all Australianshave shared the burden in times of hardship and difficulty. 
Now, the most profitable and significant of Australia's industries and resources are under foreign control.  Sir John  McEwen described this process as selling a bit of the farm year by year to pay our way.  Mr McMahon,  more than any other Liberal, prevented any effort to limit foreign investment in those years. More than any other Australian,  Mr McMahon  bears the responsibility for Australia 'selling the farm'. 
My leader continued: 
It is the strongest and richest of our own industries and services which have been brought up from overseas. It's time to stop the great takeover of Australia. But more important, it's time to start buying Australia back. A Labor Government will enable Australia and ordinary Australians to take pan in the ownership, development and use of Australian industries and resources. 
I believe that the following part of the speech is of critical importance: 
Australian development- the ownership of Australian resources- must concern us all as Australians. It is not just a matter for businessmen or directors or investors. It is of direct concern for the overwhelming majority of the Australian work-force- that 90 per cent of the work-force who are employees. Unless Australians re-assert a greater measure of control over their own industries and resources, they will find opportunities within their own country closed to them. And salaried executives will be even more adversely affected than industrial workers, because the upper echelons of management and the most attractive and rewarding opportunities in research, development, decision-making, will be closed to them. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. (Quorum formed). 
My question is directed to the Minister representi the Minister for Education. It arises out of t'.e report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces which was tabled in Parliament yesterday and wherein it was reported that private schools which maintain their own military cadet units have the right to force students to join. I ask the Minister: Is cadet training only one of a range of extra-curricular activities requiring student participation? If it is not and if the said private schools literally conscript and force students to join the cadet units, what measures can the 
Government take to have this intolerable imposition cease forthwith? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Minister ask the Treasurer whether he will give serious consideration in the Budget to enabling taxpayers to claim as a tax deductible item fees for the use of ambulances, as these fees can and in many instances do impose severe financial hardship on an injured person and/or his or her family? 
-I ask the Minister for the Media: Did he see an item in the 'Canberra Times' last Thursday which was critical of government spending and which noted that the Department of the Media had paid $8,426 for the 'Hector the Cat' comic strip? In view of the implicit accusation of frivolity can the Minister say what his Department intends to do with the comic strip? 
I was informed today that last evening the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  in speaking on the adjournment debate in another place eventually got around to directing his remarks to my position in respect of a number of things. This is reported on page 826 of the House of Representatives Hansard. I want to deal with those remarks in detail because the information I received today disturbed me and I take umbrage at what was said. The honourable member for Gippsland evidently saw fit to use the secretariat of the Australian Country Party to inform the Press of certain matters which certainly call into question my integrity which I propose to defend this evening. In doing so I want to refer to page 826 of the House of Representatives Hansard where  Mr Nixon  is reported as saying: 
Having dealt out short shrift to the honourable member for Hunter 1 turn to another matter of more importance to my constituents in Gippsland. I refer to the recent visit by  Senator Brown  as the representative of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  to Orbost, Lake Tyers, Nowa Nowa and Bairnsdale. 
He could have added Cann River. He continued: 
The purported reason for the visit was to inspect the flood situation. I understand that the honourable senator made a submission about the floods. 1 hope he has done so, but nothing has come out of it as yet, 
I stop there for a moment. My commission was twofold. In the first instance I was, on behalf of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  to carry out an on the spot in-depth examination of conditions that the Aborigines in that region were experiencing in relation to housing, education, health, and work opportunities among other things. That was my prime obligation. My second purpose was while in that region- this was the last portion of Victoria to be seriously affected by the floods in the previous weeks and months- to submit a report to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on the extent of the flood damage. 
Dealing with the question of the flood damage first and foremost, I point out that on visiting such places as Wangaratta, Shepparton, Numurkah, Nathalia and the Swan Hill and Orbost regions and meeting the various shire and city engineers and secretaries, I found that although submissions had been made to the Premier's Department, which is the appropriate place to send these submissions, the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  had preceded me in some areas and had intimated that the Commonwealth was responsible for the delay in meeting any of the claims that were being made, particularly by the shire and city councils in these regions. 
I want to point out briefly that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  issued a Press statement in the following terms on 18 May 1974: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, announced today that as a result of reports of extensive flooding in Victoria he had urgently telegramed  Mr Hamer  offering fiancial assistane for the alleviation of personal distress and repair of damage.  Mr Whitlam  also announced that the Australian defence services had been requested to provide whatever assistance could be given to alleviate the effects of the flood. 
I am saddened and distressed to hear that a soldier has drowned whilst engaged on flood relief operations. Such tragic accidents compound the already grave distress caused by floods'.  Mr Whitlam  said. 
That was in the Seymour area. The Press statement went on: 

 Mr Whitlam went on to say that in a letter to all Premiers dated 27 February he had outlined the arrangements for financial assistance from the Australian Government to the States in the event of natural disaster.  Mr Whitlam  said that the offer which he made in that letter applied in the case of the current Victorian floods. The offer to Victoria includes financial assistance, on a dollar for dollar basis, for the immediate relief of personal hardship and distress. As well, under these arrangements the Australian Government meets the whole cost - 
I repeat 'the whole cost'-  of approved rehabilitation and restoration measures in Victoria above the base cost of S3. 5m. 
I found out that the members of the shire and city councils in the areas I visited which had been flood affected were not aware that while the Commonwealth Government had given the undertaking to provide relief, the States had insisted on administering the arrangements of the scheme. I have here a copy of the application form which must be forwarded to the Flood Relief Committee via the Premier's Department. The forum contains questions on everything except, I think, the colour of your eyes. A decision is made in due course by that authority. I have reports form various shires and city councilsfor instance, Wangaratta- that I visited as far back as 23 May. Interestingly enough, while I had that document in my possession- I informed the Prime Minister of its contents- I read the following article in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 13 July 1974- it was buried on page 17- which was headed: 'MPs look at flooding: 
The Parliamentary Public Works Committee will visit northern Victoria next week as part of its inquiry into serious flooding several weeks ago. 
The committee will take evidence at Echuca on Tuesday, Shepparton on Wednesday and Wangaratta on Thursday. 
The committee  chairman Mr Amos  (Labor, Morwell), said the committee would seek evidence from all interested parties. 
The only reason I refer to that newspaper article is to point up the suggestion by  Mr Nixon  that he hoped that subsequent to my report there would be no undue delay in providing some relief for those flood affected areas. The decision does not rest with the Commonwealth Government; it rests fairly and squarely on the shoulders of the State Government of Victoria. The State Government insisted for obvious reasonsbecause they are State's righters- that it would administer the scheme and allocate the moneys that the Commonwealth had provided for flood relief. Having said that, I want to refer again to  Mr Nixon's  comments in respect to my visit to that region. I read again from page 826 of Hansard of 30 July 1 974 where  Mr Nixon  is recorded as saying: 
The previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs undertook that trip - 
That is the trip that I undertook -   as did his predecessor, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  There is one difference about the visit of the honourable member for Mackellar. Everything that he said that he would do he did. 
If the honourable member for Mackellar did what he said he would do, I cannot imagine what the conditions of the Aborigines in that region must have been like prior to his visit. I have been there and reported upon the conditions and I am prepared to table the report. I have the authority of the Minister to do that. The report shows that the Aborigines in that region, generally speaking, are suffering from deplorable conditions in terms of housing, education, employment opportunities and the provision of health services. I know that to say the least politics can be a little rough, but the gentleman went on to say, as recorded at page 827 of Hansard: 

 Senator Brown visited the area a couple of weeks ago and it is to that visit that I want to draw the attention of the House.  Senator Brown  followed the same course as that taken by the Minister for the Capital Territory, who is now at the table.  Senator Brown  was also alarmed at the state of the housing in the area. 
I was alarmed not only at the state of housing in the area- 
I hope that on this occasion something will be done about it. At the meeting at Bairnsvale about thirty to forty people attended including the local newspaper representative, who wrote a story about it. He will bear witness to whatI am about to recount to the House. During the course of a long tirade lasting about forty or fifty minutes  Senator Brown  directed his remarks mostly to the alleged failure of the previous Government to do anything for Aborigines. 
I shall deal with first things first. The 40 minutes I was alleged to speak for excluding the exaggeration and distortion of 'tirade', was actually about 10 or15 minutes. I found that I had to endeavour to establish communication and confidence with the Aboriginal people. I believe that I proved earlier during the course of that visit that the shorter the period I spoke and the longer opportunity I gave for questions the more fruitful was it for my own edification and from the point of view of the Aborigines. However, the honourable member for Gippsland went on to say: 
When the honourable senator finished his attack on the previous government - 
And I interpolate that there was every justification for attack on the previous government- 

 Mr Phil Pepper, a well respected and well known Aboriginal and a great friend of mine, got to his feet and started to rebut some of the points raised by  Senator Brown.  He pointed out that  Senator Brown  had been incorrect about when Aborigines got the vote.  Senator Brown  had said that that if it had not been for Labor Party pressure Aborigines would not have had the vote a few years ago when they did receive it. 
I am sorry that I have to quote all of this. The honourable member stated further: 
Phil Pepper said at the meeting that his father had voted in 1908.  Senator Brown  replied by saying: 'Look, if Aborigines had a vote in 1908 I will give $1,000 to any charity you like to name. If I am wrong, you give $100.' Phil Pepper agreed with this. He thought it was fair enough. He rang me from Bairnsdale the next morning and I said: 'I am sure they had a vote a long time ago but I am not sure of the year. I will check up.' By the time I got through to the Department, Phil Pepper had driven all the way to Orbost-60 miles - 
He must have had an awfully slow car to do 60 miles in a day-  -to see me about this serious matter. 
In 1855 Aborigines got the vote in Victoria so  Senator Brown  was a little bit out. 
He then went on to talk about what was happening on that Friday and to the fact that he sent me a telegram. Incidentally, I received the telegram. I quote the honourable member again. He said: 
I think that his colleagues in the Labor Party ought to know and  Senator Brown  ought to know that we expect him to pay up. 1 sent him this telegram. 
I want to quote the telegram the honourable gentleman read into Hansard because it is interesting. I have here a telegram that in fact I received. The telegram that  Mr Nixon  quotes as having sent to me, as recorded at page 827 of the House of Representatives Hansard of last evening, is as follows: 
Have confirmed that Aborigines have had the vote since 1855 in the State of Victoria and logically from 1901 for Federal elections.  Mr Phil  Pepper has nominated the Save the Children Nowa Nowa Fund - 
That is the local Aboriginal fund-  to be the recipient of your thousand dollars offered at your public meeting in Bairnsdale on Tuesday night and witnessed by the local newspaper. I would urge that you expedite payment of this matter otherwise your integrity and honesty as a senator for Victoria will be under challenge. 
I repeat that that is the telegram that  Mr Nixon  read into the Hansard of last evening. This is in fact the telegram that I received: 
Have confirmed that Aborigines have been voting in State and Federal elections since 1855.  Mr Pepper  has nominated the Save the Children Fund at Nowa Nowa to receive the $1,000 you publicly offered at Bairnsdale meeting on 25 June and witnessed by local newspaper. Would appreciate your urgent attention to this matter as it involves a question of your personal honesty and integrity with the Aborigines of East Gippsland. 
Hon. Peter Nixon MP 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is the United States of America using Cocos Island as a military base? If so, does this not contradict the Australian Government's expressed policy and its support of United Nations resolution 2832 relative to the Indian Ocean zone of peace? 
-Is the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation aware that the Papua New Guinea branch of the Returned Services League is asking that war pensions be provided for Papuans and New Guineans injured during World War II and their relatives? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the action he proposes to take in these matters? 
Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation inform the Senate about arrangements for the provision of repatriation benefits for Australian ex-servicemen and their dependants who will continue to reside in Papua New Guinea after independence? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Treasurer aware that an Australian Government grant of $250,000 made to the Knox City Council, in Victoria, to enable it to embark upon a major building program of kindergartens and pre-school centres, has been withheld by the Victorian Government. 
Has the State Government had this money since April 1974. 
Was this grant conditional upon part of the money being spent before the end of June 1974; if so, does the action of the Victorian Government deprive the Knox City Council of access to the grant. 
What action can the Australian Government take to ensure that this assistance to, not only the Knox Council, but other city and shire councils, will not be withheld in the future. 
-I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: Now that persons other than eligible ex-servicemen may be admitted to repatriation hospitals, will facilities be extended to cater for accident and emergency treatment cases in these hospitals? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Does the repatriation system place undue emphasis on in-patient treatment in its hospitals? Is the Minister aware that the current trend is towards care of patients in their own homes, wherever possible? Will he undertake to examine the situation with a view to changing the present imbalance in the repatriation system towards in-patient treatment? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Now that the Repatriation artificial limb and appliance centres are responsible for the supply of artificial limbs to all in the community who need them, can the Minister assure the Senate that the Department of Repatriation and Compensation is taking appropriate steps to keep abreast of new developments and techniques in the manufacture of artificial limbs and appliances? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask: Has the Israeli Government placed any pressure on or made any request to the Australian Government to move the Australian Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem? Can the Minister give the Senate an assurance that in view of the United Nations Security Council resolutions on Jerusalem of 1967, 1968 and 1971 the Australian Embassy will not be moved to this city? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I have noticed that the Department of Repatriation and Compensation recently has been referring to ex-servicemen as veterans. Is the Minister aware of this change? Will he tell the Senate why it is necessary, as the term 'ex-service man or woman' has been in common use in Australia for over 50 years? Does the Minister agree that such a change would be not only costly but also unnecessarily confusing to thousands of people in Australia? 
-Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware of the recent Press report announcing the intention of the Government of Victoria to ban, from 15 November, the general sale to the public in that State of all exploding fireworks? In view of the serious concern expressed by the general community over the misuse of fireworks, will the Minister be prepared to prohibit the importation of exploding fireworks? 
I present the following petition from 1 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth- 
That, in modem society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
. The Family Law Bill 1 974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriages. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-What action does the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation intend to take to ensure that the new and extended benefits promised to Australian Government employees under the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1973 are implemented? If the Government does not intend to pursue this legislation, what steps will be taken by the Government to ensure that the interests of its employees are protected? 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that the Victorian Director of Aboriginal Affairs has adopted an unusual method of reminding the Department's debtors that their accounts are overdue? The reminder is in the form of a pencil drawing of a woman with a matted mass of hair and the caption 'We hate to get in your hair but this account is overdue '. As the Aboriginal people who occasionally receive this form of notification are obviously offended by it, will the Minister take steps to remove this misplaced humour when the correspondence concerned may threaten the Aboriginal people with eviction from their homes? 
I present the following petition from 100 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
We support the introduction of Family Courts and the single non-fault ground for divorce based on 12 months separation. 
We also support the change hi maintenance provisions to end the subsidy for life system and to base maintenance on the real needs of all parties involved. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should not delay the Family Law Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition from 54 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
We urge the Parliament to debate and implement the Family Law Bill, at the earliest possible time. 
The community has had nearly 12 months to consider the implications of the Bill. Further delays are not justified. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is he aware of reports in today's Press alleging that the Commonwealth Police Force has refused to co-operate with security protective arrangements for the visit by Prime Minister Tanaka? If so, is there any substance in the report? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. What provision is made under repatriation legislation for veterans to receive treatment from chiropractors? Does he agree that any form of treatment which benefits a patient should be freely available to the patient? Will chiropractic treatment be available to patients under the proposed national compensation scheme? 
-I present the following petition from 43 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, we, the undersigned, are not opposed to the simplification of divorce proceedings, but have serious objections to the Family Law Bill 1 974; 
That, the concept of marriage contained in section 26 subsection 2 is of marriage as a transitory and temporary union dissolvable by the simple passing of a period of twelve months separation; 
That, such a concept of marriage will destroy the contractual nature of marriage, undermine the total commitment of two persons to each other and threaten the integrity of family life which is the basis of our society; 
That, a Bill with such serious implications deserves to be considered as a matter of public importance and be the object of the community debate, which it warrants. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote against the Bill in its present form, allow public consideration of amendments and then vote to so amend the Bill as to strengthen and support marriage and the family in a manner acceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition from 10 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we have read the petitions concerning the Family Law Bill and support the bill as sufficiently protecting the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Your petitioners believe in the principle that every Australian child, irrespective of the school he attends is entitled to economic support for his basic educational needs from the funds placed at the disposal of the Australian Government through taxation. Further, they believe that as a direct result of the recent Budget measure to reduce the taxation concession for education expenses from $400 to $150 a significant level of economic support, hitherto received, has been withdrawn. 
Your petitioners believe that this Budget measure is regressive and is an unjustifiable act of discrimination inflicted on parents struggling to keep their children in independent schools. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that action will be taken to remedy this act of discrimination. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1662 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, we, the undersigned, are not opposed to the simplification of divorce proceedings, but have serious objections to the Family Law Bill 1974; 
That, the concept of marriage contained in section 26 subsection 2 is of marriage as a transitory, and temporary union dissolvable by the simple passing of a period of twelve months separation; 
That, such a concept of marriage will destroy the contractual nature of marriage, undermine the total commitment of two persons to each other and threaten the integrity of family life, which is the basis of our society; 
That, a Bill with such serious implications deserves to be considered as a matter of public importance and be the object of the community debate which it warrants. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote against the Bill in its present form, allow public consideration of amendments and then vote to so amend the Bill as to strengthen and support marriage and the family in a manner acceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that the New Zealand Government has been able to implement policies to combat inflation and unemployment which have been denied the Australian Government because of the negative and frustrating activities of the Opposition? 
-I present the report from the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on the petitions relating to the proposed national health scheme. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a very short statement on the report. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It follows the question asked of him by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Greenwood.  I ask: Is it not a fact that whilst the trade unions have played an important role in their quest to protect the environment and general quality of life in the working class area of Newport in Victoria, these same unions are simply spearheading a campaign on behalf of numerous environmental groups and people living in the immediate and surrounding area of the district in which the Victorian Government is insisting that a new power station be built? 
-I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: In the light of the extensive use now being made of computers in the health and social welfare fields, does the Department of Repatriation and Compensation make use of computers in its hospital service? If so, are the costs justified by the results obtained? 
-The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation would be aware that moneys have been made available for a major rebuilding program at Greenslopes Repatriation Hospital located in a suburb of Brisbane. Has provision been made for a casualty section in this building program? If not, will he consider such a proposal? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has been able to study the Opposition's latest economic program. Does this program include wage and salary restraint and at the same time the abolition of the Prices Justification Tribunal which, according to  Mr Snedden,  has become an instrument of profit control? 

 -(Victoria)-Mr President, I seek to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I claim to have been misrepresented in the remarks of the previous  speaker, Senator Webster,  who has just resumed his seat. He referred to me as a director or a former director of the ACTU-Bourke's store. 1 would not mind if 1 was. But I regret that I am not and never have been. I want to make that clear for the record. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government who in this chamber represents the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Is the Minister aware that the Leader of the Country Party, or National Party,  Mr Anthony,  is again advocating a 40 per cent increase in the price per barrel of Australian crude oil at the well head, as he did during the course of the campaign for the election last May? Would not this 40 per cent increase be only a fraction of the final increased cost to the consumer of petroleum and its derivatives? Having regard to the major influence transport costs have on the actual total Australian cost structure, is it possible to assess accurately the magnitude of the inflationary impact such a huge price increase in crude oil would have on the Australian community as a whole, and particularly on the people in the country districts? 
-Is the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation aware that medical treatment by acupuncture can be of great benefit to many patients and that this technique is recognised throughout the world? Will the Minister undertake to examine the benefits of acupuncture with a view to making it available to veterans who need treatment under the repatriation system? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education aware that at a $25 a head luncheon in Melbourne yesterday the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  told people that a Liberal-Country Party government would abolish the Labor Government's fee-free tertiary education and the present structure of living allowances for tertiary students? Does this statement mean that the thousands of students who were deprived of the opportunity of tertiary education under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government can expect to be dispossessed of the wherewithal for further education if by some disastrous twist of political fate  Mr Snedden  were to become Prime Minister? 

 -Mr President, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that the United States of America Secretary of State,  Dr Kissinger,  and  President  Ford have both confirmed that the United States Government is, if needs be, prepared to intervene militarily in the Middle East to secure access to oil in that region? Has Cabinet given consideration to the potential threat such military intervention would pose to world peace? Further, will he give consideration to making a statement to the Parliament assuring the Australian people that in the event of the United States carrying out its threat under no circumstances will Australian military forces be committed to aid or abet such intervention and /or any consequential action? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Is the Minister aware that a group of Victorian solicitors is threatening to challenge the Australian Legal Aid Office scheme which has afforded great assistance to numerous people who prior to the introduction of the scheme were deprived of proper legal representation because of economic circumstances beyond their control? Has the Minister seen the article in today's Melbourne Age' newspaper entitled 'Vote on Challenge to Free Legal Aid '? If he has, would he be good enough to comment on the substance of the report? Further, will the Minister indicate the serious implications if this projected action by solicitors in Victoria is pursued? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the royal commission to be conducted by  Mr Justice  Hope into, among other things, the purpose, function, administration and staffing of Australian security services will commence in Sydney on 5 March 1975? Are the terms of reference sufficiently broad to enable the commission to inquire into and report upon the relationship, purpose, extent and influence on the Australian agencies of foreign security agencies in Australia, particularly the publicly discredited American agency known as the Central Intelligence Agency or, in short, the CIA? If they are not, I ask the Minister to commend to the Prime Minister my suggestion of expanding the commission's scope for the purpose mentioned. 
I wish to revive a question, directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, which I asked last July. Will the Minister ask the Treasurer whether he will give serious consideration in the Budget to enabling taxpayers to claim as a tax deductible item fees for the use of ambulances as these fees can and in many cases do impose severe financial hardship on an injured person and/or his or her family? 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to deal with a matter which I believe is of grave importance. It concerns my having been misrepresented yesterday in a Melbourne newspaper. 
I present report No. 1 from the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on the continuing oversight of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion in relation to the report. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse was tabled in the Senate on 6 May 1971. During the debate on the report the Senate resolved that the Standing Committees on Health and Welfare, Social Environment and Constitutional and Legal Affairs should continually oversight the report and recommend from time to time the further measures which might be taken to implement the recommendation or overcome the problems revealed in the report. In this report we have chosen to look at each and every recommendation of the Select Committee. We have not intended to anticipate the oversight of the other 2 Committees. We believe that a co-ordinated oversight is necessary and as a first step it is usual to look at each recommendation of the Select Committee's report and see what has happened since 1971. We have made some recommendations on measures to implement the Select Committee 's recommendations. We have also drawn attention to the areas which warrant further investigation. Some of these areas would be more appropriately dealt with by the Standing Committee on Social Environment and the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
Generally there have been varying responses to the Select Committee's recommendations since the report was tabled in May 1971. We were impressed by the thorough and comprehensive approach to the labelling and advertising of drugs. It is hoped that the State governments will fully endorse and implement the proposals. We have suggested that the areas of the Select Committee's report on the living environment, psychiatric and counselling resources for children, cannabis research and legislation on cannabis, treatment and rehabilitation legislation, and drug abuse research required further investigation. We suggested that the living environment and legislation could be more appropriately dealt with by the Standing Committee on Social Environment and the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs respectively. 
Finally may I place on record the Committee's appreciation of the work of the staff, namely  Mr Rex  Hoy, the Secretary of the Committee, Miss Hazel Church, the research officer, and the stenographers who have assisted from time to time in the work of the committee. Their work has been most helpful and is recognised and appreciated by the Committee. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-We have listened to contributions by members of the Opposition. To my knowledge this is the fourth occasion since 1973 that legislation such as we are discussing tonight has come before the Parliament. One needs to go back even beyond 1973. If my memory serves me correctly, a former Prime Minister of Australia, a man I have a great respect for still, namely  Mr John  Grey Gorton, attempted to do the same thing as we are trying to do now for the fourth time. It is interesting to note that  Mr John  Grey Gorton was deposed because he obviously touched a very sensitive nerve of the establishment and vested interests which we again see being defended tonight by pure subterfuge and, with great respect- I cannot use the language I would like to use in this chamber- with ultrabalderdash. I think that is a nice word. I am trying to be polite. I happened to find some information today which goes back to 1933. What honourable senators opposite are doing tonight they have done before, even when their own Prime Minister was promoting such legislation when honourable senators opposite were in Government.  Mr John  Grey Gorton suggested that there ought to be legislation that should be tested in the interests of Australia's sovereignty. 
You have not done that. I will refer you to what was said by another former Prime Minister of Australia. In fact he was not only a former Prime Minister of Australia, but he was also- I think we should give him credit- the architect of the movement which members of the Liberal Party now represent. I refer to Robert Gordon Menzies and what he said back in 1 933.  Senator Baume  may shake his head. He says that it has no relationship to what we are talking about tonight, but it has because honourable senators opposite are doing the same thing now.  Senator Wright  may laugh. He does not like what is going to be said. What I am saying is that honourable senators opposite are trying to defend again what was said by a former Prime Minister of Australia and former AttorneyGeneral of the Victorian Government. I think he was Leader of the United Australia Party in that day and age, but of course it is difficult to keep up with honourable senators opposite because they have changed their name like the thief in the night to disguise their identity. They have changed it a few times over the years. 
In 1933, as reported in the Melbourne 'Argus' on Tuesday, 25 April 1933, the then AttorneyGeneral of the Victorian Parliament was defending something to his utmost. I discount anything that may be said by  Senator Jessop,  who is trying to interject, because there is nothing between his ears except a lot of hair and hot air. The then Attorney-General of the Victorian Parliament was defending the great interests of the Shell Oil Company of Australia against the Australian people. Honourable senators opposite are doing it again. 1 shall not talk about the details of the 
Bill because that has nothing to do with it. The Government obtained a mandate on 2 occasions within 14 months to do what we are trying to do tonight, and John Gorton tried to do it before we came to power. 
-I will tell you. I am pleased you asked me. 
He was just ordinary, everyday Robert Gordon Menzies. I do not propose to waste my time or lose my time by responding to the interjections. I am prepared to table extracts from the 'Argus' on various dates in 1933 which point up very dramatically that  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, then  Mr Robert  Gordon Menzies, Q.C., was prepared to do the same thing as honourable senators opposite are now doing and as their  Deputy  Leader tried to do in 1974 during the course of the election campaign following the double dissolution when he was advocating protection of multi-national foreign interests, which was not in the best interests of Australian people.  Senator Wright  may laugh. 
He may snigger or laugh, but let me make the position perfectly clear. This afternoon  Senator Carrick  said that he could not believe it was possible for the Australian Government, on behalf of the Australian people, to raise $300m a year to engage in exploration and exploitation of our mineral resources, because after all that is risk capital. I would ask  Senator Carrick  to listen to me. If foreign interests, which are the only source from which we can derive this sort of finance, are prepared to invest $300m so-called risk capital a year, they would not do this unless they were guaranteed very handsome returns. Why should the Australian people not enjoy the benefits of that socalled investment of risk capital backed by the Australian Government in their own interests? 
Hear me out. You are the sort of person, representing the so-called Opposition, who has deliberately blocked the opportunity of the Australian people to enjoy that investment- risk capital, as you refer to it I do not wish to be unkind or to misrepresent the situation but honourable senators opposite have either been got at- I am trying to find the right word to be soft and kind about it- or alternatively represent somebody who has convinced them that it would be unwise to support a Bill relating to the disclosure of political funds that they rejected not for the first time but, to my knowledge, at least the second time. 
You have never given the Government the opportunity. I will tell you why. 
-As a matter of fact, the Government presently in power was elected twice within 14 months with a mandate that  Senator Durack  does not understand or accept. We made a pledge to the people of Australia.  Senator Durack  had better watch me and not the senator behind him who is trying to prompt him. This Government was elected twice within 14 months on a pledge to acquire for the Australian people the benefits that could accrue from exploration and exploitation ofthe tremendous wealth that our mineral resources could provide for the Australian community. All that the Opposition has put up on this occasion and on at least 3 other occasion, even against its own Prime Minister, John Grey Gorton- it never allowed his legislation to come into the Senate- is just downright subterfuge. Do honourable senators opposite mean to say to me that they would prefer that foreign interests, which represent $300m, as was. said this afternoon by  Senator Durack-  correct me if I am wrong - 

 - Senator Durack said there was a need for $300m investment to support and underwrite exploration and exploitation of our mineral resources, excluding petroleum. Does he think that the Australian people and the Australian Government representing the Australian people for the first time since 1949 could not find that sort of finance so that Australians may enjoy the benefits whose expatriation out of this country he has been prepared to support? Does he say that that is right? 
You are not prepared even to agree to the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill and/or its supplementary Bill, which is the Minerals (Submerged Lands) (Royalty) Bill.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I am trying to find the right words so that what I say will be within the confines of permissible parliamentary expressions. The Opposition is not fair dinkum. I invite  Senator Durack  to cast his mind back to the period ofthe last World War, 1939 to 1945, when his Party was in Government. I refer to his predecessors, the United Australia Party, but call it what you will.  His  Party had to change its name like a thief in the night. Its members did not want the people to know that they were still the same. The Australian Labor Party controlled the destinies of this nation during that war without raising one cent outside Australia. It was acknowledged even by the United States of America that Australia 's contribution to the war effort was not a 25 per cent contribution but a 100 per cent contribution. If we can do that in war why can we not do it in peace in the interests of the Australian people? 
I say to you,  Senator, that  you are a political fraud. If I have to withdraw that term I will but I have said it. Let me say one other thing. 
Your Party has changed its name but not its colours.  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, as he is now, the Warden of the Cinque Ports, God bless him, was evidently the recipient of a great contribution for services done by  Sir Sidney  Kidman, the great cattle king, and do not question me. 
-And William Angliss. He received personal gifts of 10,000, 20,000 and 40,000, not dollars. I understand that  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies was a member of a Victorian rifle regiment. It is said of him that a great military career was cut short by the outbreak of war in 1914. 
-Do not talk rot. The honourable senator is trying to defend the indefensible.  Senator Durack,  the honourable senator from Western Australia, was not raising a question of technical detail tonight but a question of philosophy. Honourable senators opposite should hear this loud and clear. 
I will give it to the honourable senator; do not worry about it. 

 - Senator, do not make your ignorance so public. I want to say something loud and clear to the honourable senator from Western Australia and all those senators on the Opposition side, including my friend  Senator Wright.  I probably whetted  Senator Wright's  appetite today when I read out what was said in the 'Sun' about his eloquence. I was a bit concerned about doing that because I knew it would go to his head but I have a certain affection for him. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  Order!  Senator Brown,  would you please address your remarks to the Chair. 
My apologies,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I respect you as an Acting  Deputy President  because I have been in that position. I want to link what I am about to say with what I said earlier. I want to point up the really sharp difference between the Opposition's philosophy and our philosophy on the Government side. 
-My word it does. 
-A11 right, the honourable senator is proud of it. I am pleased that he interjected and I will tell the Senate why. At the Blacktown Civic Centre in November 1 972, my leader,  Mr Whitlam,  delivered a policy speech in which he said, among other things, that we would do the very things that we are attempting to do now. The honourable senator may well have been one of those who was responsible for the downfall of one of the former Prime Ministers of  bis  Party. 
I am pleased to hear the honourable senator say so. 
I am pleased to hear it. There must have been a lot of the honourable senator's colleagues who were responsible. That former Prime Minister is a man for whom I have a lot of respect because first and foremost he is an Australian. 
I am pleased to hear what  Senator Marriott  just said. He is the sort of person I believed he was. I have not heard  Senator Wright  or  Senator Guilfoyle  say anything like this but of course  Senator Guilfoyle  has not been here very long.  Senator Durack  who led the debate for the Opposition has fallen silent.  Senator Bessell  also is a new senator. I say again that all that we on the Government side are trying to do, based on an undertaking to the Australian community, the Australian electorate, is revive the John Grey Gorton principles. 
The honourable senator was opposed to his leader then and he is opposing the very concept and principle that one of his leaders introduced some years ago, before we achieved office. We have a commitment and we are prepared to pursue it. The difference between the Opposition and we on the Government side is that we believe that the mineral wealth deposited on the Australian continent or in the offshore areas, the submerged lands which are defined by international law, belong to the people of Australia. What the Opposition is saying in effect is that it does not belong to the people of Australia because we cannot raise the finance. Does the honourable senator who led for the Opposition really believe that we, the Australian people, cannot raise $300m a year to explore and exploit an industry which returns such wealth? The honourable senator should look at the T. M. Fitzgerald report although it was criticised by his supporters and those they represent. It referred to an industry worth over $ 1,000m in 10 years and the Austraiian community subsidised it. That subsidy was gratuitously given by the former Government. Some royalties and taxes were paid back to the Australian community but this community subsidised those companies- by and large they were foreign interests- to the extent of $50m to $60m over that 10-year period, and I probably underwrote those figures because I wanted to be a little conservative. 
Yes, the T. M. Fitzgerald report. That is right. What the Opposition has said tonight does point up the sharp difference between its philosophy and ours. All that the Opposition is concerned about is profits and vested interests. What we are concerned about is that these natural assets on the Australian continent and off-shore within the area described by international law should belong to the Australian people and that they ought to enjoy the benefits of them. But the Opposition is saying no and its members are shaking their heads. They say that we could not raise $300m. God Almighty, in the last world war- honourable senators opposite say that this is old hat but like hell it is- a million pounds a day were being spent to prosecute a war to destroy people. 
Honourable senators opposite, even  Senator Marriott,  would have to concede that if that could be done in war time how much easier it could be done in peace time in the best interests of Australia. 
Why are we not doing it? Order! I am sorry, I apologise; I am used to being a  chairman.  If we go back to the period when the honourable senator's Party - 
The honourable senator can smile but what I have said is on the record. The honourable senator now is trying to repeat what was done by his former Liberal leader, the architect ofthe Liberal Party, who had to discard the UAP tag because it was discredited during the war. Mem bers of the UAP had to walk out of this place because they could not do anything to help the Australian people in a crisis. That was not the first time and it will not be the last time because honourable senators opposite are going to have to change the name of their Party again. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order!  Senator Brown,  I think you had better come back to the measure. 
With great respect,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  this is related. At last the Opposition is moving into the Nationalist Party. It will probably move to the National Socialist Party. That connotation is used by people for whom the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, had a great respect. But do not take my word for it. Back in 1934  Sir Robert  made a trip to Germany. He came back eulogising Hitler. These are the type of people the Opposition is prepared to back against the Australian people. Let me say one other thing. What I have to say is really worth noting. The Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  just prior to the double dissolution in 1974 advocated the use of strong arm tactics by international oil monopolies against Australian workers.    
Oh, yes. Ever since the honourable member has been advocating an additional increase of 40 per cent in the price of oil. That is what he is advocating now. During the course of the last double dissolution he advocated an increase of $1 a barrel at the well head. Honourable senators know that in effect that meant $156m a year net profit to the companies. But then the honourable member talked about world parity. This would have meant $624m a year. 
-That is for sure. Now  Mr Anthony  has again advocated an increase of 40 per cent. The Opposition is not fair dinkum within the meaning of the usual Australian colloquial term. The Australian people will see the Opposition for what it is. 
They will see you for what you are. In 1972 my leader said that we would do these things. He said that we would support the former Prime Minister- the former Leader of the Liberal Party- whom honourable senators opposite sabotaged. 
You are too young to know, son. You were not here. We said that we would introduce that legislation proposed by the former Prime Minister. We said that we would have it tested in the legal sense. When the legislation came forward we had a mandate. But the Opposition does not recognise a mandate, lt was prepared to do the very thing which its former leader said was a falsification of democracy. Last year  Mr Jim  Killen said it was a threat to the parliamentary system. This appears in a very good article which I commend to  Senator Baume.  It is found on page 4 of the Melbourne 'Herald' of 9 April 1 974.  Senator Baume  may learn something so I ask him to make a note of the article. 
This is not a question of delving into technical details. It is a question of whether the Australian community should derive benefits from the natural wealth of this country which is deposited both on the land and on the continental shelf and its surrounds. But previous spokesmen from the Opposition have said: 'No, you have to have other interests involved '. I and my Party are not prepared to accept that I do not believe for one moment that the Australian people are prepared to accept that. They have understood and learnt what has happened in other parts of the world where multi-national interests, vested interests have no concern for the well-being of the community or of the country in which they have invested their moneys. The people realise this is not in their best interests. I ask honourable senators opposite to think about this. I see  Senator Wright.  I give him credit. I have a certain respect for mm. 
-Yes. He smiles and he sneers. I must confess that last night I enjoyed his performance. It may be that today I have excited his imagination because of what I said when I claimed to have been misrepresented. I repeat that this is not old hat. If we could raise money to prosecute a war to defend this nation when the party to which honourable senators opposite belong could not gain the confidence of the Australian people, I think we can do the same thing in peace time to the greater advantage of the Australian people and for the future benefit of this nation. 
-We have just heard a speech by  Senator Cotton,  in which one would have to concede- as always- that he applied his mind with some degree of thoughtfulness and perception and one cannot just discount what he says. However, I think one must go back to 13 November 1972. 1 can probably anticipate some derisive remarks from the Opposition. The fact remains that on 13 November 1972 my Leader, who is now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  gave an undertaking to the Australian people that the Government would do 2 things in particular. Those are the matters that we are debating tonight. Those undertakings are to be found in his policy speech. I am indebted to  Senator Cotton  for reminding me of the history of the Australian Industry Development Corporation because it was promoted by  Sir John  McEwen, then  Deputy  Prime Minister, and implemented by John Grey Gorton, the Prime Minister at the time. We in the then Opposition were not satisfied that it had the teeth that were required to achieve the end results which were espoused by the former Prime Minister,  Mr John  Grey Gorton. As an aside, I regret to learn that he is thinking in terms of leaving politics. We have different opinions about many aspects of politics, but I have a very high regard for that gentleman because I believe that first and foremost he is an Australian. 
-And honest. That is a rare quality in politics. He was determined to secure for Australia an interest in Australia's assets. I think that was one of the matters that brought about his downfall. That aside, one must give credit to those 2 gentlemen. 
Among other things, in respect of the Australian Industry Development Corporation my Leader said: 
We will expand the work of the Australian Industry Development Corporation to enable it to join with Australian and foreign companies in the exploration, development and processing of Australian resources. 
That was a clear and unequivocal undertaking. When speaking of foreign investment he said: 
It's time to stop the great takeover of Australia. But more important, it's time to starting buying Australia back. A Labor Government will enable Australian and ordinary Australians to take part in the ownership, development and use of Australian industries and resources. 
That was the undertaking that was given on 13 November 1972. It was subsequently repeated during the course of the election campaign following the double dissolution in 1974. So we have received a mandate in 1972 which was endorsed and reaffirmed by the people of Australia in 1974. I understand and I acknowledge that the Opposition is not particularly interested in the question of a mandate, but the fact remains that it is one of the cornerstones of our system of government. Competing parties offer, suggest and promote policies and ideas to the community at large and one or other receives adequate support to form a government in the other place. Having received that support, if the 
Government of the day that is formed in the other place, which is the only place that it can be formed, has a minority in the Senate, the will and wishes of the people in the democratic House, if I might use that description quite deliberately, should be respected. 
At least one must be grateful for small mercies. It has taken more than 2 years to achieve one result, which is acceptance and support of one of 2 pieces of legislation which complement each other. That is the indication by the Opposition this evening that it is prepared to support the Australian industry Development Corporation Bill as it is now drawn. But it insists upon opposing the second piece of legislation- the National Investment Fund Bill- which, I repeat, is a complementary piece of legislation. 
I think it is important in the course of this debate to remind the Opposition of and place on record the proposed functions of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Clause 4 of the Bill states in part: 
1 ) The functions of the Corporation are- 
to facilitate and encourage the establishment, development and advancement of Australian industries concerned with the manufacture, processing, treatment, transportation or distribution of goods, or the development or use of natural resources (including the recovery of minerals ) or of technology, by- 
providing, or assisting in the provision of, the financial resources required by Australian companies engaging, or proposing to engage, in any such industries or in activities that are connected with, or incidental to, those industries; and 
engaging or participating in enterprises or developmental projects in relation to any such industries or activities; and 
I underline the next paragraph- 
to secure, to the greatest extent that is practicable, participation by Australian residents in the ownership and control of companies engaging in any such industries or activities. 
I move across to the National Investment Fund Bill. I repeat that because the National Investment Fund Bill and the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill are complementary pieces of legislation we should look also at the objects of the National Investment Fund Bill. Clause 4 of the National Investment Fund Bill states: 
The object of this Act is to assist the Australian Industry Development Corporation in the performance of its functions by providing a means by which financial resources may be made available to the Corporation. 
One cannot discount that both measures are in fact interrelated and that one is dependent upon the other for its success. I turn to clause 7 of the National Investment Fund Bill. 
-Yes, the Bills are being debated cognately. There are cognate debates at times as a matter of convenience, but this cognate debate is of greater significance. It is absolutely essential that the Bills be debated cognately because of the nature of the interlocking relationship between one Bill and the other. I was about to deal with clause 7 of the National Investment Fund Bill. In my view it discounts so much of what  Senator Cotton  has said in expressing his opposition to this Bill as a complementary measure to the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. Clause 7 of the National Investment Fund Bill states', in part: 
1 ) When the Corporation has created a series of investment bonds, (he Corporation shall cause to be published in the Gazette a notice- 
a ) stating that the Corporation has created that series of investment bonds; 
inviting - 
I emphasise the word 'inviting'- applications for the purchase of bonds in the series; and 
setting out the terms and conditions on which bonds in the series will be issued and sold. 
In other words, with respect to what  Senator Cotton  has said, the National Investment Fund and the AIDC in effect will be competing on the open market for what funds are available for investment and they will not, as  Senator Cotton  has suggested, intrude upon the free choice of the Australian people to invest because they will have an opportunity of looking at a statement that the Corporation has prepared setting out a series of investments and the terms and conditions upon which bonds will be issued and sold in that series and they will be able to compare that with, let us say, a similar statement prepared by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works or any other body outside of the governmental and semi-governmental institutions. They will also be able to look at those of any of the private financial institutions that are attempting to raise finance on the open market. I cannot understand why  Senator Cotton  argued so strongly that the provisions of this legislation will impose a conscription, so to speak, upon the financial resources of the people and prohibit them from investing in other than the National Investment Fund. 

 Senator Cotton also made reference to the need for some capital limitations to be applied. I would agree in part with what he said provided he were to carry that over into the private sector of the economy, but he has not done that. I do not want to repeat unduly what I have raised on other occasions, but let us think in terms of the tremendous assistance- to some advantage, admittedly, to the Australian economy but at a tremendous price to the Australian communitygiven in the form of the funding of companies which were prepared to engage in exploration for and, if successful exploration were pursued, exploitation of the mineral resources so explored for. I repeat that over a number of years, through the assistance of the Australian people via the government of the day, irrespective of the colour of its politics, both Australian and foreign interests have been assisted and encouraged to explore for and exploit our mineral resources. We have found on balance that if the special provisions of taxation on the one hand and the concessions of subsidies on the other were measured against the payments back to the Australian people in terms of taxation and royalties they would show that the Australian community has been in fact subsidising those companies to quite a substantial tune and, more importantly, that those companies have been accruing unto themselves extraordinary returns on their investments which in my view could not be condoned by even the Opposition if it were prepared to concede the point I have made and I think that it would be prepared to do so privately. 
If that is to be said to be the way in which we are to fund the exploration for and exploitation of our natural resources and /or to assist our own secondary industries and rural industries, why should that sort of technique and that philosophy not be employed through the representatives of the Australian people as elected by the Australian people and not through the board of directors of company A or company B? A situation in which the elected representatives were answerable to the Australian community would be more preferable to the situation at present in which private companies are beholden to no one except their shareholders. I have found through experience that even the shareholders seem to be of secondary consideration in many instances. We have no inhibitions about what we are saying. I would have no inhibitions about speaking to the public at large on this issue. We believe that we have been given a mandate to strengthen the AIDC. One must give credit to  Sir John  McEwen and John Grey Gorton for at least introducing the concept of the AIDC. We have undertaken to strengthen it. We have undertaken to support that concept by providing, through a National Investment Fund, the opportunity for the ordinary Australian individual to invest in his own future. Having said that on one occasion and received the endorsement of the people and having had it confirmed on a second occasion we believe that the Senate should acknowledge the will of the people. 
I wish to deal briefly with the remarks of  Senator Steele  Hall. I hope that 1 have not misunderstood what he said. I attempted to do my best to record faithfully what he said when he was talking about overseas equity. I wish he were present in the chamber because I may have misunderstood him. From the way in which I followed his argument it seemed to me that on the one hand he was trying to say that Australians should have an interest in their own economy, natural resources and secondary industry and that on the other he talked about the importance of overseas finance and foreign investment. We acknowledge this within the limitations of controllable investment. I often think about countries such as Japan. Japan has been able to do quite well. Its actions have not caused foreign investors to have second thoughts about investing in the country. Japan, from the moment that it started its economic recovery after the 1939-45 World War, insisted on Japanese equity being at least 50 per cent; in fact it may have been 5 1 per cent. If the Japanese were able to insist on that and to succeed as they have succeeded, I cannot see for one moment why we should not be able to insist on equity such as the Japanese have in their industries and commerce. 
I was concerned about the reference made by  Senator Steele  Hall. I hope I am not doing him a disservice or misinterpreting what he said, but it seemed to me that he agreed with a level of foreign investment but placed overseas equity above Australian equity. If I have misinterpreted him I apologise. I have no inhibitions or reservations about showing my concern. I am sure all of us in this chamber are concerned about Australian equity and a balanced arrangement of investment from overseas to ensure that we are able to find the financial wherewithal to promote our industries while at the same time retaining for ourselves the right to determine our own economic destiny. A country that forfeits that forfeits everthing. There are many examples- all of us in this chamber would know of some- of that action spelling disaster for the people of the host country. 
Finally, I should like to commend my colleague,  Senator McAuliffe.  I am not a back scratcher. I think his contribution this evening is one which should be read. I am pleased that it is on the record. In a very methodical and objective way he retailed to the Senate the history of the 
Bills that had been referred to the Senate Committee and, with what I felt was a refreshing truthfulness, pointed up the reasons why he stated what he stated. It could have appeared, if one wanted to play politics, that it was an attempt to criticise a colleague. I hope the day never comes when one cannot state the facts objectively and in genuine, honest-to-good ness truthfulness, notwithstanding Standing Orders which say that one cannot refer to a person in another place in a disparaging way. I do not think that to state the truth is to disparage; to state the truth is to cast light where there is darkness. There is a very distinct and meaningful line between deliberately setting out to disparage a person in another place and simply attempting to point up the truth. I commend my colleague  Senator McAuliffe  because I think he did precisely that this evening. I hope that it will not be another 2 years before the second part of this legislation, namely, the National Investment Fund, ultimately will commend itself to the Opposition as has the first part, the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. It may well be that, with the passage of time and a little more experience in Oppositions, members of the Opposition in due course will be prepared to support both pieces of legislation which are before us this evening. I commend both Bills to the Senate. 
I ask the Minister for the Media whether it is true that there are fears of further retrenchments by Crawford Productions Pty Ltd because of the decision of television stations to drop certain shows. Has any financial assistance been given to Crawford Productions recently by the Australian Film Development Corporation? What is the current level of the Corporation's investments as against the previous year? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Is it true that much of the identification jingle material used by commercial radio stations is imported? Is it also true that there are Australian musicians who are equipped to produce this material? What moves, if any, are under way to give those musicians an opportunity to perform this type of work and thus encourage and maintain an Australian sentiment which will enhance the standard of broadcasting in this country? 
-This has been an extraordinary debate. It may be appropriate, for the purpose of the record, to remind the Senate precisely what it is all about. We are speaking to the motion that Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1974-75 be read a second time. The debate has taken on the complexion of a cognate debate, as we are taking into account Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1974-75. 1 understand that last evening  Senator Greenwood  moved an amendment to which I shall refer subsequently. Much has been said by the previous  speaker, Senator Steele  Hall, at least in the early part of his contribution, which took my running, as the saying is, in relation to the performance of the Opposition and its constant threat and harassment of the Government over the possibility of a snap election. 
This has certainly created a situation in Australia the like of which, to my knowledge, we have not seen since Federation. This has promoted a form of instability and a sense of frustration not only for the working of this Parliament but also for the people as a whole. To that extent I think I can agree with the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Greenwood  which states: 
. but the Senate is concerned at the dangers to Australia's security. 
Once the stability of the country is undermined naturally the security of the country is called into question. However, for the time being I shall refer briefly to  Senator Cotton's  contribution. I thought this was the beginning of a chapter of extraordinary contributions in this debate. It is true that  Senator Cotton  referred to the 2 Appropriation Bills and said that together they represented the expenditure of some $600,979,000 to 30 June 1975. He briefly touched on the major features of the allocation of money for the purposes stated. 
Interestingly enough, the honourable senator then moved into another area. At page 688 of Hansard he stated: 
I have been looking at some of these issues in the light of the Senate 's position, ability and powers. 
Then, further on, at page 689 he went on: 
Looking at the Senate as an institution and its financial powers, I believe that we ought to regard ourselves continuously as an inspecting House of Parliament. This is a function that I conceive for the Senate. I believe that it has always been so but it has tended to become more so. The view that I hold in the Australian scene is that over the years this will become increasingly so- not the originating financial House but the inspecting House; in addition, a checking House - 
That is an understatement- 
Of course, concurrently with that it is a general review House in which senators might be prepared to take a longer view of economic and monetary policies. 
I agree with  Senator Cotton  when he says that this chamber and its members have a responsibility to review in depth and in detail the measures which are brought across from the other place- the initiating House to which he referred- particularly financial matters. 
I do not want to do  Senator Cotton  a disservice but I was very interested to see that he introduced this concept of the powers of the Senate. I wonder whether that is for one of two reasons. I wonder whether he was attempting to placate his own conscience because of his role in an action which was taken by the Opposition in 
April of last year? Was he projecting the possibility of like action being taken again by the Senate? Alternatively, was it a combination of both? I think  Senator Cotton  should be asked here and now, with reference to this being a House of review, a checking House- I regret that he is not in the Senate- what standing he gives to the use of that term 'checking'. In April last year the action of the Opposition went far beyond reviewing. It could be said that it was checking. It went so far that it brought about an extraordinary situation and a double dissolution of the Parliament ensued. I think that occurred on the night of 10 April 1974. Prior to the Opposition taking that action there were many members of the Liberal Party who had certain things to say on the subject. One of them was a gentleman who has been described, and rightly so, as the architect of the Liberal Party. Of course, he is now retired. I will refer to him as a retired gentleman, the Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports. When he learnt of the possibility of the Senate taking this unprecedented action of refusing Supply this gentleman,  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies, described such action as a falsification of democracy. 
I would like to read to honourable senators what was said by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  at that time. He is still a member of the House of Representatives. I commend this article to all honourable senators opposite because it has a great deal of merit. It appeared on page 4 of the Melbourne 'Herald' of 1 9 April 1 974 over the signature of  Mr D.  J. Killen, the Liberal member for the Brisbane seat of Moreton. It is also stated that  Mr Killen  is a lawyer. The article is entitled: 'It's a threat to our parliamentary system'.  Mr Killen  said: 
If the Senate can reject a supply Bill ... it would mean that the terms of one section of the Constitution were being trampled upon. The Senate would not have equal power with the House of Representatives. It would have greater power. 
I believe that that statement in itself should weigh heavily on the minds of those honourable senators who constitute the Opposition for the time being and, as I see it, will do so into the distant future. I remind the Senate of that fateful evening of 10 April 1974. The Senate was engaged in a debate on an Appropriation Bill. Interestingly enough, it was the Appropriation Bill (No. 4)- the same title as the Appropriation Bill we are discussing today. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  made this contribution to the debate, following the contribution made by  Senator Greenwood: 
If we did not grant Supply the situation would be rather farcical. 
Then he went on to say this: 
We embarked on a course 12 months ago- I am not trying to be provocative- to bring about a House of Representatives election. That has now been achieved. 
Leaving out the words which  Senator Withers  interpolated, what he was saying in the Senate was: 'We'- meaning the Opposition- 'embarked on a course some 12 months ago to bring about a House of Representatives election. That has now been achieved'. I am not sure whether members of the Opposition, in their blind thrust for power, realise that if we backtrack 12 months- the period mentioned by  Senator Withers-  from 1 2 April, it takes us back to a point approximately half way through the first Autumn session of the new Parliament, when the newly elected Australian Labor Party Government had not even been in office for 6 months. The Leader of the Opposition indicated in that disclosure that that was the time when the Opposition set out to cause the members of the House of Representatives to face the people again. I repeat what  Mr Killen  said: 
If the Senate can reject a supply Bill ... it would mean that the terms of one section of the Constitution were being trampled upon. The Senate would not have equal power with the House of Representatives. It would have greater power. 
He had many other things to say. I think that I ought to read into the record some of what he said. He was dealing with a double dissolution and was speaking about the Senate having the power to force the House of Representatives to go to the people but the House of Representatives not being able to force the Senate to go to the people. He said: 
Such a notion was never within the contemplation of the founders of the Commonwealth Constitution. It is a proposition which the overwhelming majority of Australians would regard as absurd. 
Beyond this it would mean that the terms of one section (S. 53) of the Constitution were being trampled upon. 
The Senate would not have equal power with the House of Representatives. It would have greater power. 
Experience shows that precedents should be departed from with great care. They should be established with greater care. 
If the Senate does establish the precedent of rejecting a supply or appropriation Bill, the difficulties of government in Australia at some time in the future could be immense. 
That is precisely what we are experiencing at present. That is one of the reasons why, although I do not agree with the reasons for the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood,  I agree with its wording. Finally,  Mr Killen  said this: 
Power without a corresponding responsibility always stands in danger of degenerating into a tyranny. 
Let us consider the personalities involved in another place. I do not say this disparagingly. 
Firstly, there is the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  who is the Leader for the time being. I can understand why his performance in the other place is not as good as it might otherwise be. It must be extremely difficult to know that one does not have the wholehearted support of one's colleagues. He is a man who displays a degree of timidity and indecision. But the real power behind the throne in this force of politics in Australia is one who is arrogant and powercrazed. He is bad news for Australians and Australia. I refer to  Mr Doug  Anthony. He is the one who literally forced the Opposition into a double dissolution or to refuse Supply last year. I do not propose to traverse the same ground as  Senator Steele  Hall traversed. But again he is the one who is pressing for and pushing for a grab for power. 
Notwithstanding all the attempts that have been made by the Opposition in the other House and in the Senate to frustrate this Government and cause it to lose favour with the Australian electorate- it is obvious that the Opposition has not been successful if we have regard to recent gallup polls- we have before us today and we saw the origins of this last night, an amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood  which raises the question of the dangers to Australian security. I would not for one moment question the decision or the authority of the Chair. But I would be remiss if I did not say this: Because of the elaborate character of the Standing Orders of the Senate, I believe that there has been an abuse by  Senator Greenwood  of the liberal interpretation given by the  President.  I say this for a number of reasons.  Senator Greenwood  has relied on an obscure document. I only wish that I had been in the chamber when he raised the matter. But I was otherwise occupied. I would like to have seen the document tabled. If  Senator Greenwood  is listening to the debate, I hope he will give consideration to returning to the chamber. I ask him to give consideration to tabling the document. 
The document evidently arose out of and was circulated at a conference or some sort of educational camp that was held at Ocean Grove between 28 December 1974 and 5 January 1975. From what I can remember of what I heard the honourable senator say, I think we must call into question the credibility of the source on which  Senator Greenwood  has relied for what can be described only as a hysterical outburst. It has been used to vilify- if not by direct means, at least by innuendo, inference and one of the worst techniques that can be employed, namely, guilt by association. It certainly does not enhance  Senator Greenwood  's standing in my eyes as a man of the law, a  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and a former Minister of the Crown for him to use the technique that he used in the Senate. He took advantage of the liberal interpretation of the Standing Orders. He has attempted to use this opportunity to vilify the organisation which I have the privilege to be a member of, the Australian Labor Party, and one of its subsidiaries, the Young Labor Association. 
Honourable senators may not be aware of a Melbourne newspaper known as the 'Sunday Observer'. It is a Maxwell Newton publication. Frankly, if it was a throwaway newspaper, and this is not an opinion I have formed because of this afternoon s episode, I would not buy it, firstly, because it is 40c a copy and until recent times I would not have been able to afford that- I have not got that increase anyway but I hope it will come in due course- and, secondly, even if it were a throwaway newspaper I would not allow my family to look at it. I am not an old square or a conservative. 1 like beauty and beauty can be seen in this form, but it is a sex rag. The heading on this paper states: 'Spy- World Exclusive '. It goes on: 
ASIO's top agent exposes our amazing world of sex, treachery and terror'. 
Going through this article at random, there is a section entitled. 'Sex, Sabotage, Crime Makes Max's World'. It is like something one reads in a James Bond novel or something from 'MI5 '. 
But this is not Maxwell Newton we are speaking about, it is Max Wechsler. Among other things the article says: 
For 26 months this true-life double-agent stopped at nothing, including taking girls to bed with him for sex and information, eavesdropping, stealing documents, committing sabotage, manipulating finances and obtaining sets of duplicate keys to allow ASIO agents to do a Watergate-type break-in at the SWL headquarters in Melbourne and Adelaide. 
There are a few other really spicy quotes. It goes on: 
Wechsler helped ASIO organise a major phone-tapping operation on the SWL. It had the approval of the then Attorney-General  Senator Murphy.  It was last March and Wechsler got a series of questions from his ASIO man John, who told him that they came straight from Murphy's office. Wechsler's  job was to answer them. The questions concerned Arabs . . . how regularly the Arab members of the Palestine Liberation groups called up the SWL? How long they spoke on the phone. At what times of the day. 
This goes on page after page. It says: 'More on pages 14, 15'. It is hard to follow because of its poor print. As I said, it is a poor quality newspaper. Among other things it says: 
As a spy I fooled everyone . . . communists like Jack Mundey and John Halfpenny. 
He went on to talk about Federal members and different supporters of socialist activities in Victoria. He said: 
I even fooled the girls I slept with so I could get information. I fooled the Brunswick CIB. 
That is the Criminal Investigation Bureau of our police force in Victoria. 
I even fooled an Army major into giving me top secret details about meetings the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  was having on the purchase of German Leopard tanks for the Army. I know the inside and out of the revolutionary movement here; I know the best way to impress people at the top; I always know in advance where and when there is going to be violence. These attainments have made me ASIO's top undercover agent in internal political affairs. 
This is not bad for inside 26 months. Then there are a few other choice pieces. In a piece entitled The Heat is On' this appears: 
Soon I was trusted by them - 
He is referring to the Communist Party of Australia and the information was flowing to ASIO files in Melbourne and Canberra- it was information that was priceless. It soon became apparent to everyone including me that I was working for chickenfeed. John used the very word when I raised it with him. 
Incidentally, John was the ASIO contact with the Attorney-General's office. The article continues: 
My pay had gone from $12 a month to $24, then $36 and once, when I told them I needed transport, they gave me $400 and I bought a Yamaha 250. 
If my memory serves me right, that is a motor bike of Japanese origin. It goes on: 
I've got to work full-time on this SWL thing,' I told John. So it's about time I became a full-time agent.' Surprisingly, he agreed quite readily and from then on I was on $ 100 a week cash- plus my $36 a week sickness benefit cheque. 
John also told me that I was the only full-time undercover agent working for the organisation in Australia. 
It goes on.  Senator Greenwood  has relied on this type of individual to- use the national Parliament in an attempt to raise this matter. Thank goodness I have faith in the good sense of the Australian people not to be hoodwinked or fooled by such rubbish.  Senator Greenwood  has in my view abused the liberal interpretation of Standing Orders. The article continues under the heading 'The heat is on': 
So I deliberately set up a girl activist I was friendly with in the movement and began wining and dining her. Soon she was coming up to my apartment and spending the nights with me. 
I think he was a little bit peculiar. I do not mean for that reason but for other reasons. It goes on: 
I told her that my rich aunt- the one I'd lived with in St Kilda when I first came to Australia- had taken pity on me because I was sick. I said she let me move into the Centre City Club rent-free because she was a part owner. 
And so it goes on and on. Interestingly enough, that appeared in the Melbourne 'Sunday Observer'. I think  Mr Maxwell  Newton has taken licence when he talks about a world exclusive. That article was published on 23 February 1975. 1 am not prepared to weary the Senate by reading that right through. I was not even prepared to weary myself. This man has evidently gone into hiding and has top senior security officers protecting him; but apparently he broke away from them or  Senator Greenwood  may still have some links from back in that dark age before we became the Government, when he was AttorneyGeneral. If my memory serves me right he has had some communication with that gentleman since that time. The article was published on 23 February. On 28 February in the 'Nation Review' there is an article by a  Mr William  H. Martin appearing on page 517. It is entitled: Mystery Max throws up questions on ASIO'. It is worth reading into the record. It states: 
One of this country's most incredible spy stories broke last weekend when Melbourne's Sunday Observer carried headlines screaming: ASIO's top agent exposes our amazing world of sex, treachery and terror'. 
That is characteristic of this newspaper, incidentally, but not in terms of security. It continues: 
This alleged top spy is 25 year old Czech born Maximilian Wechsler who says that he reached the exalted position in ASIO in 26 months and was being paid the amazing salary of $100 cash a week by them in addition to receiving $36 weekly in Commonwealth sickness benefits. 
If that is the case I think there is some ground for us to investigate the matter because funds of the Commonwealth have been misused. That may be worth looking at but to my mind it would be the only thing. The article continues: 
How Mystery Max came to receive sickness benefits and what Max's sickness is are questions receiving scrutiny from people who have known Max and his medical history. The disclosures are expected to throw new light on the calibre of the informers and agents employed by ASIO. 
I have 3 or 4 more quotes: 
Maxie's standard of reporting to ASIO shows how unreliable most of their information could be. He said that the catholic church was the unwitting host to SWL - 
That is the Socialist Workers League- members at its Ocean Grove complex. Yet this camp is owned by the methodists. 
Now, I happen to know somebody- you usually do get to know a great range and variety of people in politics- and I phoned before I came into the chamber to check if the facts as reported by  Mr William  H. Martin are correct. He said: Yes, that is right,  Senator. As  a matter of fact, it was an open camp. It was open to the public and the complex is in fact owned by the Methodists.' It may be an oversight; perhaps he has got his religions mixed. I know there is a new ecumenical development between the conformists and the non-conformists but I did not think it would go so far that it would be called into question on the basis of accommodating a potential threat to the security of Australia. I should not think that the Catholic Church would be involved in that, nor would the Methodists. I go further and again quote from this article: 
A number of questions remain unanswered about Mystery Maxie 
How could he afford to move into the Centre City Club in Flinders Street, Melbourne, and pay $37 weekly rent from December 5 last until February 19? 
Where did he obtain the money to buy a colour TV? When questioned about it by SWL members he said his aunt was feeling sorry for him and gave him the money to buy it. 
He has since admitted that another story about his aunt giving him money was a lie. 
Was it a coincidence - 
I think this is interesting- 
Was it a coincidence that he was at the City Centre Club at the same time as runaway British MP John Stonehouse? In 1969 a Czech security agent Joseph Frolik defected to the Americans and alleged that Stonehouse was a Czech agent. This was investigated by British security service D15. They later reported to Harold Wilson that Frolik 's allegations were without foundation. 
How did Mystery Max become naturalised in less than the 3 years' residence required to qualify? 
I quote further: 
His limited command of the English language and his inability to understand questions and answer them was shown on 'A Current Affair' last Monday. How could this man report accurately and faithfully to his ASIO puppeteers? 
As I said earlier, I think that this Senate has been misused and that the privileges extended to the honourable senator have been abused. I would hope that the newspapers will act rationally and sensibly and responsibly if they are going to report  Senator Greenwood  because it may well be that this is part of a calculated plan again to raise the sort of McCarthyism that we had in this country back in the 50s. Those who seek power and who have never conceded that the Australian Labor Party is in fact the Government- I am referring to the Opposition- will stoop to anything, stoop to any tactic or technique to try to undermine this Government. Let me remind the Senate of one thing. I am not necessarily an avid supporter of the institution or the establishment, but for the time being it is here and until something else can be put in its place then we have to have some regard to it. But as long as the Opposition continues to hold a threat over the duly elected Government of the day and so long as one has regard to what  Mr Killen  and  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies said as to the way in which the Opposition has abused and prostituted this establishment and the Constitution- so long as there exists the instability that is presently within our community- then likewise the security of this nation is threatened. And I name men like  Senator Greenwood  as the people responsible for the insecurity in this nation right now and I make no apology for saying it. 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware that Sydney radio station 2CH is holding an exhibition entitled 'Communications Horizon 75 ' at the Centrepoint, Sydney, between 14 July and 26 July 1975? If so, can the Minister tell me whether his Department is participating in this exhibition? If it is, what is the Department's role in the exhibition? 
-At the outset I indicate that earlier todayI advised  Senator Greenwood,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, that I proposed to speak on a subject matter in which he has an interest. I understand there was some misunderstanding last Thursday evening when I was not present. I wish to bring to the notice of the Senate a matter that was raised in this chamber on Wednesday 5 March during the debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1974-75.  Senator Greenwood  proposed an amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time. He moved that the following words be added to the motion: 
But the Senate is concerned at the dangers to Australia's security. 
Some discussion took place as to the validity of  Senator Greenwood's  amendment to the motion. Subsequently you,  Mr President,  ruled that it was an appropriate amendment and  Senator Greenwood  accordingly continued to debate the matter. He moved that amendment to enable him to utilise the opportunity to vilify the Party of which I am a member, and to discredit the Ministers of the Crown and the present Government. I believe, as a consequence, he was hoping that this would have the effect of undermining the confidence of the Australian people in the present Government. I replied to his remarks the following day, 6 March. I thought that might well have settled the matter. I think it is necessary to remind the Senate of the debate which took place by recounting the principal evidence that  Senator Greenwood  relied upon.  His  remarks could only be described as an incredible attack on the Australian Labor Party generally, its subsidiaries, members of the Australian Labor Party, the members and the Ministers of the Crown, and the Government as a whole.  Senator Greenwood's  remarks commence on page 694 of Hansard of 5 March. He relied for his argument on a series of articles which appeared in the 'Sunday Observer' on 23 February. The series purported to be an interview with and a story given by a  Mr Maxmillian  Wechsler who claimed to be a former Australian Security Intelligence Organisation agent. I might point out, for those who are not aware of it, that the 'Sunday Observer' is a publication of Maxwell Newton, a person who is known to have a deep abiding blind hatred of the Australian 
Labor Party. One only has to read the various political comments in that newspaper to come to that conclusion. Notwithstanding that,  Mr Newton  's newspaper was prepared to publish such an article. I want to refer to only one or two headlines. One headline states: 'Max The Spy Tells  His  Chief. This purports to indicate that this person, who alleged that he was an agent of ASIO, decided that he would see his security chief and resign at 10.30 a.m. on Thursday in a room on the 15th floor of the Melbourne Southern Cross Hotel. The newspaper goes on to tell us, with great glaring headlines: 
AS10's super agent exposes the treachery poised to ruin us. Terror plot to take over Australia! 
The comment by the 'Sunday Obsever' is interesting because this was the sort of atmosphere that  Senator Greenwood  attempted to recreate in the Senate on 5 and 6 March. I will read to honourable senators a brief comment by the 'Sunday Observer' which is tantamount to an editorial. It is entitled: 'Stop The Rot Now'. It states: 
The astonishing spy-and-tell disclosures exclusively reported in the Sunday Observer today must not stop here. 
They must be only the beginning- the first, dramatic step towards stopping a group of blood-thirsty fanatics from overthrowing the established Government. 
The startling revelations by ASIO agent Max Wechsler have challenged- in a way that no one before him has dared- all right-thinking Australians to consider the future of their country. 
They are a challenge to the Australian Labor Government to act to expose the radical cancer growing in its own ranks. 
Proof is not needed that left-wing fanatics are a positive threat to our society- they've convicted themselves from their own mouths. The Government must act. 
Wechsler's  act of conscience is a beginning to which others must respond. 
His incredible story is a weapon that must now be used by elected politicians, by Parliament, by the Government in Canberra, for defence against these extremists. 
Obviously  Senator Greenwood  decided to pick up the suggestion that this incredible weapon be used by elected politicians, lt continues with headlines such as: Sex, Sabotage, Crime Makes Max's World'. I do not say this in a disparaging way to the gentleman concerned, but on reading the details of these articles one can only draw the' conclusion that the only person concerned with the sex, sabotage and crime that made Max's world was in fact Max himself. Nevertheless, a very responsible member of the Senate, a former Minister of the Crown and the first law officer of the Commonwealth during the time that he was Attorney-General, has seen fit to have communication with this person, evidently travelling to another State, and was thoroughly satisfied, according to his own words which are recorded in 
Hansard, with this person. I quote from  Senator Greenwood's  words as reported in Senate Hansard of 5 March 1 975 on page 694: 
I have spoken to Max Wechsler and have spent many hours listening to and recording his story. I believe he was regularly reporting to ASIO and was paid by ASIO. 
Then he went on to say that he was satisfied concerning other matters, too. On the basis of that and the information that he had received from this gentleman he attacked my Party, Ministers of the Crown and the Government as a whole. Subsequent to the statements made by  Senator Greenwood,  we found that he achieved a certain degree of success because the Melbourne 'Sun' on 6 March 1975 carried a small article entitled: I talked to spy:  Senator'. It  retails the fact that  Senator Greenwood  has taken advantage of the opportunity to speak to this person to find out the sort of information which  Senator Greenwood  conceded was similar to, or at least substantiated by, the reports in the 'Sunday Observer' of 23 February. 
In the 'Australian' of 6 March 1975 there was report entitled: 'Communist plot warning ignored'. It tells us that the shadow AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood,  in a prepared statement said that the organisation had close links with the Australian Labor Party. On the same day there was a report in the Melbourne Age' entitled: 'Armed Takeover Plans:  Senator'. 
The honourable senator set out to achieve a particular object and he succeeded to a limited degree. This article relates that on the previous night, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Greenwood,  had given details of what he had described as 'a plan to take control of Australia by force of arms by Trotskyite elements in the Australian Labor Party.' I repeat that the whole thrust, of course, was against the Labor Party. 
Then on 7 March, the following day, there was an article in the 'Australian' with the substantial heading: 'Cairns Accused of Aiding Communists. ' A diatribe similar to the previous one was repeated. It was only a matter of repeating what the senator has said on the previous 2 days in this House. On 7 March, also in the Melbourne 'Sun ' there was an article headed 'Labor Three "help Trotsky groups ". ' It singles out 3 Ministers of the Crown, namely, the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, the Minister for Environment,  Dr Cass,  and the present AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Enderby.  There is a further report. I wish to refer these matters to the Senate because I think it is important to understand the sort of coverage that this outburst by the former Attorney-General received in the Australian Press. In the Melbourne 'Sun' of 1 1 March 1975 there appeared an article entitled: '"kill" threats to ASIO man- Arab terrorists'. Alongside that article is another article entitled: ' "Belief" in his story'. The article attributes words to the former Attorney-General in which he said that he believed Wechsler. The article continues: 
I have spoken to Max Wechsler and spent many hours listening to and recording his story. I believe he was regularly reporting to ASIO and was paid by ASIO. 
That is the sort of coverage that this matter received, which was obviously the intention of  Senator Greenwood  in the first instance. I believe that on 6 March I effectively answered  Senator Greenwood  but there was a flow on. Between that time and last Thursday I was overseas for a brief period. I received the same sort of communication that my colleague  Senator Melzer  received from the Women's Abortion Action Campaign.  Senator Melzer  read a communication from that organisation into Hansard and  Senator Greenwood  understandably responded. I quote  Senator Greenwood  's words as reported in Senate Hansard of 17 April 1975 on page 1113: 
I went to Tasmania to interview him.  His  name was Wechsler. He had been a member of the Socialist Youth Alliance and the Socialist Workers' League, and he assured me- and I believe him- that he had also been a member of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation reporting to that organisation on the activities of these bodies. There was no manufacturing. I still retain the tapes of the information which he gave to me and if anyone in responsible positions desires to listen to those tapes they are available. 
Evidently  Senator Greenwood  was endeavouring to fortify the outlandish accusations that he had made against persons in the Australian Labor Party and in the Government of this country on 5 and 6 March 1975. Between the time that he first launched his attack on 5 and 6 March 1975, and the time that he replied to  Senator Melzer  on 17 April 1975,  Senator Greenwood  overlooked some rather pertinent information which should have been made available to him having regard to the fact that he was so closely allied to  Mr Max  Wechsler. In the Melbourne Sun' on 14 March 1975, which is no more than 6 days after the second part of the attack in the Senate, there appeared an article entitled:  "ASIO Man" Remanded'. The article states: 
A man charged with having carried a loaded rifle in Lonsdale St. told the City Court yesterday he was an 'under cover secret agent'. 
I am a secret agent for ASIO and can only talk to ASIO officers. Because of publicity over the past 2 days, I need police protection,' Max Millan Wechsler, 24, told  Mr J.  M. Duggan  S.M.  'I am hiding from the Palestine Liberation Group'. 
Wechsler of no fixed address, pleaded guilty to having carried a loaded firearm in a town, and to having carried a firearm without a permit. Sen. Constable J. O Toole, of the Russell St. crime car squad, told the court Wechsler had told him after being arrested outside Myer's yesterday: 
I am going to fly out of Australia in a few days and seek refuge in Israel. I am an under cover agent for ASIO'. Wechsler told  Mr Duggan:  'I think I will need a lawyer. ' He was remanded to appear in the City Court today. Bail of $500 with a similar surety was allowed. 

 Mr Wechsler is reported as having said: 'I am a secret agent'. He did not say: 'I am a former secret agent'. I wish to direct the attention of the Senate briefly to the Senate Hansard of 5 March 1975. After telling the Senate that he had close contact with this gentleman and had been with him for hours listening to him and recording his story,  Senator Greenwood,  as reported at page 694, said: 
I believe he was regularly reporting to ASIO and was paid by ASIO. ... He has terminated his agent's role because he is concerned- concerned about the Government's inaction in respect of the matters which he has supplied to it. 
That was on 5 March. In the 'Sunday Observer' of 23 February the same gentleman retailed the story of how he terminated his arrangements with ASIO. In the Senate Hansard of 5 March  Senator Greenwood  read a copy of the gentleman's resignation. It reads: 
Dear  Sir, 
I decided to resign as an agent of ASIO. I feel that my efforts were rendered useless due to the attitudes of the present Labor Government towards internal and external national security. 
I joined ASIO voluntarily and resigned voluntarilywithout any outside pressure. 
That was as late as 5 September.  Senator Greenwood  substantiated that on 5 March. Yet on 13 March- because it was the day after when a report appeared in the Melbourne 'Sun'- this self-same gentleman said: 'I am a secret agent of ASIO '. He was still claiming to be one then. 
In the Melbourne 'Age 'of Saturday, 15 March 1975, there appeared an article headed 'Man from ASIO fined over firearm '. It stated: 
A man who told police he was an undercover agent for ASIO was lined $200 on firearm charges in Melbourne Magistrate 's Court yesterday. 
Max Wechsler, 24, of no fixed address, was charged with carrying a loaded rifle in Lonsdale Street, on Thursday. 
He was also charged with carrying a firearm without a permit in Lonsdale Street the same day. 
Wechsler pleaded guilty. 
Senior Constable J. OToole, of the Russell Street crime car squad, told the court he saw Wechsler sitting in a car with a rifle beside him.  0 'Toole said the rifle had an unusual feature in that it was like a machine gun. 
He told mc he was an undercover agent for a secret organisation, ASIO, and that his life was in danger, 'O Toole said. 
He said he had the rifle in the car because he was on the way to get a permit from the police.' 

 Mr W. E. Guy, SM, fined Wechsler $100 in default 10 days imprisonment, on each charge. 
It is a serious matter, carrying a semi-automatic weapon in the heart of the city,  'Mr Guy  said. 
There was a further report in the Melbourne Sun' of 15 March which is only more or less a reprint of much of what is in the article I have just read. That article deals with the self same gentleman whom  Senator Greenwood  relied on extensively for his attack on the Labor Party, individual members, Ministers of the Crown, and the Government as a whole in an attempt to undermine the confidence of the people in the Government. 
Yes, I know, but not here. I understand he is going to Israel. 1 understand that  Senator Greenwood  relied on one other article for some support of this outlandish claims, and that was a pamphlet entitled 'A New Threat to Labor' published in 1974 by a John Russell and a John McArthur. I note from his remarks in the Senate Hansard, for reasons best known to himself,  Senator Greenwood  described these gentlemen as graduates: I do not know what that means, whether it is supposed to improve their status at witnesses, as with the statement that  Mr Max  Wechsler was said to be an ASIO agent. I want to make the point that that pamphlet would have no official status or standing in our Party. It is an obscure pamphlet, and this would not be the first occasion that I have known like pamphlets to be distributed in similar fashion in the past. So I would not be unduly concerned about that pamphlet if I were  Senator Greenwood. 

 Senator Greenwood relied basically on  Mr Max  Wechsler's statement to support his outlandish claims about the Australian Government and the members of the Party to which I belong. This raises a number of pertinent questions. Apart from what I said on 6 March, the credibility of the person on whom  Senator Greenwood  relied so heavily has to be charitable about it, been proved beyond all doubt to be suspect. I repeat that he was one concerned with sex, crime and sabotage, and I repeat that the only person who seemed to be engaged in that was the self same man, because I invite honourable senators to read the articles that I have here; but he is a convicted criminal. 
This poses a number of questions. I realise that in normal circumstances one could not expect to ask these questions and, if one asked them, one could not expect a reply. There are at least 30 references to this matter, apart from  Senator Greenwood's  reference, in which the gentleman himself, namely Wechsler, has claimed publicly to have been an agent of ASIO.  Senator Greenwood  has supported this and has substantiated it in his own way. Therefore, it is not a secret any more. The sorts of questions I think need to be answered would be directed, I presume, to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  through the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  who represents the AttorneyGeneral in this chamber. First, was Wechsler ever an ASIO agent? Secondly, if he was an agent, was he a full-time agent? This is what he claimed, according to the newspaper report to which  Senator Greenwood  seemed to give some credence. Thirdly, did he receive $ 100 per week for his services to ASIO if he was so employed, plus a $36 per week sickness benefit cheque, as he was reported to have claimed on page 15 of the 'Sunday Observer' published on 23 February 1975? 
This is a serious matter. I was concerned at the time not so much that  Senator Greenwood  had attacked the Australian Labor Party or this Government- that is politics- but that a man of his standing and status should have done so. Whether we like him or not the fact remains that he has standing and a status in this Australian Parliament. When he is willing to rely on that sort of evidence to support such a vile attack on individuals, on the Party to which I belong, and on this Government, I think it calls for strong measures to be taken to have the matter clarified beyond all doubt and laid to rest once and for all. These allegations have been made by one who I thought would have shown much more responsibility than he has shown. As I have said, on this occasion he said that he was concerned about the threat to the security of this nation. Likewise, I am concerned. I am concerned about the fact that the security of this country is in jeopardy while people are able to misuse and abuse the privilege of this Senate to attempt to undermine a Government which has been elected twice within 14 months. The honourable senator is still not prepared to acknowledge the will of the people but is prepared to resort to this tactic- to create fear in the minds of people- to endeavour to secure support. 
This technique is not new. It is a technique we have seen in recent years, particularly in the 1950s. I think we can expect a revival of that type of tactic in the future. Therefore, I hope that the Minister representing the Attorney-General, if he cannot answer my questions this evening, will at least obtain answers to my questions, as I believe that it is critically important that they be answered in the interests of this Government, this Parliament and the people of Australia. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, follows and is germane to the question asked by my colleague  Senator Poyser  concerning the report in this morning's Melbourne 'Age' on the Prudential Assurance Company Ltd. I ask: Will the proposed Australian Government insurance office be using racial origin as a criterion for deciding who will be offered insurance policies? Further, does the Minister propose to take any action to ensure the elimination of racist attitudes in the writing of insurance business in Australia? 
I present the following petition from 2641 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That death taxes cause distress and humiliation to thousands of Australians, particularly widows, many of whom are left in serious financial difficulties; 
That death taxes are actually an additional tax, levied on people's savings to such an extent, that thousands have been forced to sell their properties to meet these taxes in a time of bereavement; 
Despite the original intention that these taxes be applied to break up large estates and spread the wealth of the Commonwealth, these large estates have been able to apply Tax avoidance' and so 'evade' considerable death taxes, whereas smaller estates have been unable to do this. As a result, the intentions of the legislation have failed; 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should take action immediately to Abolish Estate and Gift Duties, (following the example of Canada, which has taken action to abolish these duties as from the 1st of January, 1972) and devise a method of providing financial assistance to the States, so that they in turn, can follow the lead of this Government, and abolish Probate and Succession duties, or raise the minimum to $100,000 value for all estates before death duties become applicable. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I seek leave to table documents, signed by several thousand citizens of the Commonwealth, supporting the subject matter of the petition. 
I present a petition from 220 citizens of Australia praying that the Parliament reject the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975,I would like the petition to be read, but as it exceeds 250 words I ask that leave be given for the petition to be read by the  Clerk. 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration to a recent statement of the Victorian Minister for Labour and Industry,  Mr Rafferty,  who said that the Australian Government's national apprenticeship assistance scheme had been unsuccessful in creating employment opportunities for apprentices. Has the Minister any information to clarify this statement? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is he aware that the world renowned micro-surgical team at St Vincent's Hospital in Melbourne is facing a crisis through lack of finance and that one of the surgeons on the micro-surgical team is reported in the 'Sunday Press' magazine as having said: 
If we do not get more money for salaries we will lose staff and will have to close down some of the unit. 
I ask the Minister: Has the Victorian Government asked for any financial assistance to retain this outstanding surgical unit? If not, will the Minister give consideration to making a financial grant from the Australian Government to ensure the continuity of the unique work of this team in the interests of our community? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I ask: Can the Minister advise the Senate what steps have been taken since December 1 972 to assist children living in distinctive Aboriginal communities to become fully bilingual? Has an experimental program on bilingual education been commenced in the Northern Territory? 
My question which is directed to the Postmaster-General relates to a planned project for building a research laboratory at Clayton in Victoria. When will this building be commenced? 
-Has the attention of the Special Minister of State been drawn to the articles by  Mr Russell  Scott in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 3 and 4 June in which he described much of the criticism of the Prices Justification Tribunal as 'simplistic' and failing 'to appreciate the Tribunal's more significant characteristics'? Does the Minister agree that this is a fair commentary on the kind of criticism of the Tribunal that has been appearing in some quarters in recent months? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Police and Customs. In the light of the fact that under new United States legislation, the Freedom of Information Act, citizens have the statutory right to see their Federal Bureau of Investigation file, whether or not they have been charged with a crime or are under suspicion, will the Minister for Police and Customs assure the Australian people that such a right will be guaranteed in the legislation now being drafted for the Australian police force? 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether his attention has been drawn to reports that Australian citizens are supplying arms to Fretilin forces and are helping Fretilin forces on the ground in Portuguese Timor? Can he confirm whether there is any truth to these allegations? 
I ask the Special Minister of State: As only companies with an annual turnover of more than $20m a year are required to notify price increases to the Price Justification Tribunal, what action is the Tribunal taking in respect of prices charged by other businesses? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State who will be aware that the Academic Salaries Tribunal, which was established last year and which presented its first review last December, is currently undertaking a full scale review of academic salaries. Can the Minister inform the Senate how the Tribunal is proceeding in the conduct of this review and when the review is expected to be completed? 
-Has the Special Minister of State been able to ascertain from the Australian Statistician whether, in calculating the consumer price index for the September quarter, he changed either the weighting of medical and hospital services in the index or the method of pricing those services? In view of the general public interest in the September quarter consumer price index figures, particularly as regards the treatment of Medibank and the apparent misrepresentation of the index in a number of quarters, will the Minister consider asking the Statistician to prepare a supplementary paper to assist the users of these figures? 
I present the following petition from 53 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we are fearful that any further delay by the Senate of the Loan Bill and Appropriation Bills will bring Australia into a constitutional, economic and social crisis, leaving indelible scars on our democratic institutions. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should proceed forthwith to allow passage of these Bills so that the government, legitimately formed by a majority of the members of the peoples' House (the House of Representatives) may proceed with its administration without further disruption. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Police and Customs. I understand that under tariff quota restraints on imports of bags and sacks of man-made fibre an additional customs duty of 1 8c a bag or sack is being levied on importers who do not have an entitlement to tariff quota. Can the Minister advise the effect which this additional duty is having on the export price of Australian primary produce which is usually shipped in packages of this type? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. Over recent weeks the Minister has advised the Senate of the steps that have been taken to establish an interim advisory council for the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. In answer to a recent question the Minister said he was hopeful that the council's first meeting would be held just after the middle of October. I ask the Minister whether the first meeting of the interim council has been held and, if so, whether it was productive and whether it was held with the co-operation of  Mr Clunies-Ross? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the address to shareholders of John Fairfax Ltd by its  Chairman, Sir Warwick  Fairfax, in which  Sir Warwick,  following a statement of his group's support for the Government's policy on wage indexation, said that the group thought that the Prices Justification Tribunal in some form must also be part of the system? Does the Minister regard statements of this kind as indicating a lack of agreement in high business circles with the stated objectives of the Opposition to abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal? 
Naturally, I will not be answering for the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  because he is capable of doing that himself, and quite eloquently. But I am surprised that  Senator Greenwood,  a man of some standing in the community, should place his credibility in jeopardy by reliance on an individual whose history he has quoted to us in part, but certainly not in full. If my memory serves me correctly,  Senator Greenwood  raised this matter in the early part of March on 3 occasions. The whole purpose of the exercise was to attempt to vilify the Party of which I happen to be a member and, as a consequence, to attack the credibility of the Government. He was able to obtain some headlines of the kind that an armed takeover was imminent in Australia. This was linked with some groups within the Australian Labor Party to the Australian Labor Party itself. On that occasion I questioned the credibility of the source of his information. I think that we are entitled to do this. 
I naturally went to the source of the information which was displayed in the  Sunday Observer  of Sunday, 23 February 1 975. I think that most of us who have had occasion to see the type of billboards that advertise this newspaper would have to concede that, to say the least, the language that is used to describe events of the day is dramatised and is designed to excite false impressions. I invite- I say this quite sincerelymembers of the Opposition and my own colleagues, if they have not read this article, to read it right through, because it is like something out of a James Bond novel. 
It would take too long to read it all; but I will quote some extracts from this man's own story. His wife left him eventually. She left him, I presume, because he disclosed things such as this: 
So I deliberately set up a girl activist I was friendly with in the movement and began wining and dining her. Soon she was coming up to my apartment and spending the nights with me. 
This is the gentleman upon whom  Senator Greenwood  is relying as his source of information. Then, under a heading of 'Sex, Sabotage' the same article states: 
For 26 months this true life double agent stopped at nothing, including taking girls to bed with him for sex and information, eavesdropping, stealing documents, committing sabotage, manipulating finances and obtaining sets of duplicate keys to allow the other types of activities. 
What I am about to relate is not any concoction on my part. This gentleman was arrested, I understand, in the Lonsdale Street area of Melbourne outside the entrance to Myer's store. The incident was reported in the Melbourne  Age  of Saturday, 15 March 1975. The heading to the newspaper article is: 
 Man from ASIO ' fined over firearm 
It states: 
A man who told police he was an undercover agent for ASIO was fined $200 on firearm charges in Melbourne Magistrate's Court yesterday. 
Max Wechsler, 24, of no fixed address, was charged with carrying a loaded rifle in Lonsdale Street, on Thursday. 
He might have been described as a vagrant. The article continues: 
He was also charged with carrying a firearm without a permit in Lonsdale Street on the same day. 
Wechsler pleaded guilty. 
Senior Constable J. O Toole, of the Russell Street crime car squad, told the court he saw Wechsler sitting in a car with a rifle beside him. 
O Toole said the rifle had an unusual feature in that it was like a machine gun. 
This next piece of the newspaper article is in inverted commas: 
He told me that he was an undercover agent for a secret organisation, ASIO, and that his life was in danger,' OToole said. 
This part also is in inverted commas: 
He said that he had the rifle in the car because he was on the way to get a permit from the police '. 
The article continues: 

 Mr W. E. Guy, SM, fined Wechsler $100, in default 10 days ' imprisonment, on each charge. 
It is a serious matter, carrying a semi-automatic weapon in the heart of the city',  Mr Guy  said. 
I repeat that this is the gentleman upon whom  Senator Greenwood  has relied. This man has attempted to grab headlines and to excite the imagination of the people to believe that he was supplying information to ASIO. The Minister did say on 2 1 April that this man was a casual informant. He also said that ASIO itself had stated that he was not taken seriously. Yet  Senator Greenwood,  who 3 years ago was the first law officer of this country, is prepared to rely on that sort of information and to use the Parliament to attack individuals and the Government on the basis of that source of information. 

 Senator Greenwood talks about people using parliamentary privilege. Let me digress for a moment. I will come back to the subject matter that he raised originally. I want to quote to  Senator Greenwood  and to other honourable senators a letter that was sent to me on 24 July 1975 when I was overseas. It is a letter from the Federal Executive of the Australian Bank Officials Association. It is addressed to me and states: 
Dear Bill, 
You will probably remember the rash statements made by  Senator Greenwood  in the Senate on the 28th May, and I am enclosing copies of letters which have been passed between myself and the same gentleman for your information and hopefully for future use. 
I tried to interest other white-collar unions, e.g., the Insurance Staffs, the Architects, and the Teachers Federation in a project to challenge Greenwood through paid advertising in the Press, but they seemed to think this would give the smearer 
That refers to  Senator Greenwood-  more publicity than he warranted. 
The letter continues: 
My organisation was seriously concerned about the McCarthy type tactics adopted by  Senator Greenwood  and we hope that you will take a suitable opportunity in the Budget Session to give the matter a little more exposurepreferably when the Senate is on the air. 
I propose to do that in due course. The letter which was sent to  Senator Greenwood  from the Federal Secretary of the Australian Bank Officials' Association is dated 1 1 July 1975 and reads as follows: 
Dear  Senator Greenwood, 
This Association has had it drawn to its attention a statement made by you on page 1969 of Senate Hansard of 28 May 1975: "Today members of the Communist parties, and there are three in this Country, lead and control unions  . . Outside the ACTU they lead a significant number of unions in banking . . . ". 
There are only two unions in Banking in Australia namely, my Associationand the Commonwealth Bank Officers' Association. My Association asks that you immediately name to us any member of the Communist parties occupying leadership positions in this Association of which you have knowledge. 
If you have no such names in respect of Australian Bank Officials' Association, will you please make this fact clear to us in your reply to this letter. 
If the latter situation is the correct one, it will also be appreciated by my Association, if at an appropriate time you would make a statement in the Senate making this fact clear. 
Yours faithfully, J. Sanders, Federal Secretary 
This is the reply dated 23 July 1975 of the gentleman himself-  Senator Greenwood: 
Dear  Mr Sanders, 
I acknowledge your letter of the 1 1 th July. Your letter asks me to name individuals and thisI do not propose to do. 
I did not name individuals in the Parliament and in these circumstances, I do not consider I should do so outside Parliament. 
Yours sincerely, Ivor J. Greenwood 
If ever there were a clear exposition of an individual who is prepared to exploit, misuse and abuse this Parliament and this House to attack people who cannot defend themselves, then  Senator Greenwood  is a perfect example- he is placed highly on that pillar. I refer back for a moment to the question that has been raised by  Senator Greenwood.  I repeat, in my view the question was asked foolishly. At page 1 1 77 of the Senate  Hansard  for 2 1 April  Senator Greenwood  is reported as having claimed that  Senator James 
McClelland had dodged  Senator Greenwood's  question.  Senator James  McClelland took up the challenge and on page 1178 of  Hansard  for 2 1 April he is reported as follows in respect of  Mr Wechsler: 
I should have preferred to have left my reply oblique, but now I have to spell the information out specifically. My information is- and this comes from ASIO, if  Senator Greenwood  wants to know- that  Mr Wechsler  was a casual informant, paid casually and not taken seriously. He was a man who, like many hundreds of people who give information to ASIO, was not believed without corroboration. ASIO regard him as an unbalanced character, a man who was always claiming that his life was threatened, that his house had been burgled and who was not taken seriously in respect of the information that he gave to ASIO. Perhaps the reason why  Senator Greenwood  has not heard from  Mr Wechsler  for a long rime- and this is a piece of information that he has forced me into giving- is that  Mr Wechsler  has been, on my information, in a mental institution in Queensland for some time. 
I cannot vouch for the latter part of the Minister's information, but I am sure that the Minister's claim, in his reply, that the information he had received was from ASIO and that this person was employed casually and paid casually for his information is correct. Of course  Mr Wechsler  was not taken seriously. If one goes through these articles that purport to be the true story of Max Wechsler, the super spy, one finds that he says, first of all, that he was receiving no payment for his services, then that he received some payment, and subsequently that his payments were increased until he was a full time official of ASIO. 
That is another aspect. According to his own story he was in fact drawing social security payments. I asked the Minister at the time whether  Mr Wechsler  would have been entitled to social security payments at the same time as he was receiving an income from another source. That question has never been answered either. It is only one of many. There is no doubt that this is another example of the technique which  Senator Greenwood  employs quite consistently. Over the years he has employed it quite extensively in his attempt to cause people to believe that this country is under dire threat of either internal armed insurrection or, alternatively, that there is an imminent threat which could destroy our democratic institution. I repeat what I said on the last occasion this matter was raised: If there is any threat to the security of this country- I say this quite deliberately- it comes from people such as you,  Senator Greenwood,  who misuse and abuse the privileges that are extended to us in order to represent people who endeavour to create fear, division and panic in the community. Fortunately, the honourable senator's attempts have not been successful in the past. I am sure that they will be treated in the same way on this occasion. 
-Did the Minister for Labor and Immigration receive a letter last week from the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser,  complaining that the Dundas Shire Council was in trouble because the Federal Government had not met outstanding claims totalling $49,496 for Regional Employment Development scheme projects? If the answer is in the affirmative, why has this money not been made available to the Dundas Shire Council? Further, are there any other outstanding claims by city or shire councils which have not been met by the Federal Government? If so, why have they not been met by the Government? 
I  present the following petition from 47 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The Humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we are fearful that any further delay by the Senate of the Loan Bill and Appropriation Bills will bring Australia into a constitutional, economic and social crisis, leaving indelible scars on cur democratic institutions. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should proceed forthwith to allow passage of these Bills so that the government, legitimately formed by a majority of the members of the people's House (the House of Representatives) may proceed with its administration without further disruption. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-The main basis upon which  Senator Scott  mounted his attack on the Government on the one hand and attempted to justify the Opposition's unprecedented action in blocking the Government's Budget on the other hand rested on what he called 'the exercise of the responsible powers of the Senate by the Opposition'. He then attempted to justify the Opposition's actions as being responsible by asserting that the present crisis- it is a crisis that Australia faces at the moment- is the direct result of, and relevant to, the Government's performance.  Senator Scott  went on to say that this was a desperate action that was being taken by the Opposition. These are his own words. It certainly is a desperate action; it is a desperate action by desperate men who can be seen for what they are in their grab for power. But I am pleased that  Senator Scott  did make the contribution he did because it fits in precisely with what I wanted to say in the course of this debate. 
I think it is essential in the interests of the Australian public to understand precisely what has happened since the Australian people elected the Labor Government in December 1972. On examining the catalogue of events which discloses the conduct of the Opposition from that point of time until this present moment, when as  Senator Scott  has stated, the country has been brought to a crisis by a desperate decision made by desperate men, it will been seen who in fact is responsible for that crisis. The Australian people elected the Labor Government on 2 December 1972. It was abundantly evident when the Parliament met for the first time in the autumn period of 1973 that the Opposition did not accept- I repeat 'did not accept'- the decision of the people on 2 December 1972. Even in those early stages of the new Parliament veiled threats were made by the Opposition to destroy this Government at the earliest opportunity. Those threats were repeated in the Budget session of 1973 and in fact were carried out in the autumn period of 1974. 
I think I should do well to recount precisely what happened during that period. On 10 April 1974 when we were dealing with Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1973-74  Senator Willesee  proposed a motion that the resumption of the debate on this Bill be made an order of the day for a later hour that day.  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition, moved an amendment to that motion, which appears at page 884 of Senate Hansard for 10 April and reads as follows: 
At end of motion add -  but not before the Government agrees to submit itself to the judgment of the people at the same time as the  forthcoming  Senate election, the Senate being of the opinion . . . 
I shall not weary the Senate or the listening audience by retailing the reasons that the Opposition gave on that occasion for moving that motion, which has been described as an unprecedented action by the Senate in 74 years, which indicated that the Opposition was prepared to refuse Supply. It is interesting to compare that motion with the motion that was moved by the Opposition on 15 October last during the debate on the first Loan Bill, which read as follows: 
Leave out all words after 'that' insert: this Bill be not further proceeded with until the Government agrees to submit itself to the judgment of the people, the Senate being of the opinion . . .  and so on. So the same sort of technique and tactic is being employed this year by the Opposition as was employed last year. The verbiage is slightly different and the circumstances are slightly different but the end result is the same. One needs to look then at what  Senator Withers  is reported to have said at page 9 10 of the Senate Hansard of 10 April 1974 because when the Opposition put down its motion to block Supply the Government took the initiative- a prerogative to which it is entitled- and suggested to the Governor-General that there be a double dissolution.  Senator Withers  is reported in  Hansard  as saying the following on the evening of 10 April 1974: 
If we did not grant Supply the situation would be rather farcical. 

 Senator Withers was aware at that stage that the Government had decided to ask for, and had been granted by the Governor-General, a double dissolution. I repeat  Senator Withers'  remark: 
If we did not grant Supply the situation would be rather farcical. We embarked on a course some 12 months ago- I am not trying to be provocative- to bring about a House of Representatives election. That has now been achieved. 
What does that mean? It means briefly this: If we take into account that this statement was made on 10 April 1974 and if we traverse back the period of 12 months which was referred to by  Senator Withers  it is seen that the Government which was elected on 2 December 1972 was not even half-way through its first autumn period of the new Parliament when the Opposition determined to destroy that Government. That is only one instance. Subsequently a double dissolution was held and the Government was returned to office in the House of Representatives, which is the only place in which a government can be formed. The Government increased its representation in the Senate from 26 to 29 members and attracted 200 000 votes in excess of the combined vote of the Opposition senators. It is important to remember that. 
Then in early July 1 974 we had the first ever Joint Sitting to process those Bills which were the subject matter of the double dissolution. Following the Joint Sitting we then had the spectacle of several States- with non-Labor State governments, of course- challenging various pieces of legislation that had been processed legitimately through this parliamentary system at the national level. I shall cite two or three of the pieces of legislation involved. One was the legislation for the Australian Assistance Plan. From memory I believe there was an attempt to challenge the Regional Employment Development scheme but I understand the States decided subsequently to withdraw from that challenge. Then there was the more recent challenge to the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill. Honourable senators are aware that the High Court unanimously upheld the validity of that piece of legislation. I understand that a decision by the High Court on the off-shore oil legislation is still pending. I have mentioned only two or three instances in passing. Then  Senator Murphy  was elevated to the High Court, which created - 

 Sitting suspended from 1 tol p.m. 

Before the suspension of the sitting I was about to cite the circumstances of the elevation of  Senator Murphy  to the High Court as a justice. This created a casual vacancy in the Senate for the State of New South Wales, which he represented. The New South Wales Premier then breached a long established convention. This was the first break with the custom that had been followed and, as a consequence of its acceptance over a number of years, it established what was referred to as a convention. I think the most succinct way this could be described can be found in the editorial of the  Canberra Times  of 13 February 1975 from which I will quote briefly. It said:   the tragedy is that even if  Mr Lewis  and his committee piously decide in the interests of the nation not to go ahead with their plan a great deal of irreparable harm has already been done. A man who flashes a toy gun at a hold-up has to be treated as if the gun is loaded.  Mr Lewis  may not yet have broken the convention- and it is the fervent hope of this newspaper that he will not- but he has made it unsafe. Because a convention is a matter of honour and trust it cannot stand the assaults of political brigands.  Mr Lewis  has demonstrated that, even if he is bluffing, he is not a man to be trusted in such matters. 
Of course, that preceded the ultimate decision that was made by the Premier of New South Wales and his Government. They subsequently appointed a person other than a representative of the Australian Labor Party to fill that casual vacancy. It is not a reflection on the person who filled that vacancy but rather it is a reflection on the Government of that State- a non-Labor Government- because the result of the decision of that Government was to deprive the New South Wales electors of the right of proper representation in this Senate. 
Then we had the casual vacancy caused by the untimely and unfortunate demise of our colleague,  Senator Bert  Milliner of Queensland. All honourable senators on both sides of the chamber would be familiar with the conduct of the Premier of Queensland and his Government. In spite of the overtures that were made to him by leading members of the Liberal-National Country Party coalition at the national level and also at the State level, the Premier of Queensland finally compounded the original breach of the convention by Premier Lewis of New South Wales. The Premier of Queensland breached that convention by the appointment of a nondescript to represent the people of Queensland in this Senate. Here again, of course, that action means in effect that the Queensland people have been deprived of a person to properly represent them in this Senate because the person appointed by the Queensland Government is not of the party to which  Senator Milliner  belonged. 
The next major breach of a constitutional convention was the decision made by the Opposition on 16 October to defer consideration of those Bills which make up the totality of the Budget until such time as the Government submitted itself to the people. This has been described as one of the most outlandish and unprecedented acts ever taken and it threatens the political stability of this nation and the future well being of its people. Then, of course, we had an example of the extremes to which some people will go in pursuing a cause. The Opposition, as I said earlier, has made calculated attempts and has planned a program to destroy this Government at the earliest opportunity. We have the example of the Governor of Queensland,  Sir Colin  Hannah, who entered the political field. This is unprecedented in the history of our nation. The Premier of Queensland compounded that breach of etiquette by supporting the State Governor's utterances in the political field. 
Taken either singly or together the breaches I have mentioned show conclusively that the ground rules and the conventions which support the ground rules for the proper conduct of the affairs of this nation which can be truly said to be the handwork of conservative elements in this community- the Australian Labor Party has enjoyed such short periods in office, particularly at the national level- are conventions of convenience. They will be followed while it suits the purpose of those who are responsible for their original composition and construction to do so. Let us look for a moment at what was said by a number of leading members of the Opposition. I can think of no one better to quote than the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I do not know how long he is likely to remain the Leader of the Liberal Party. 1 will refer to the remarks of  Mr Malcolm  Fraser which he made during a radio broadcast on 2 March 1975. He was laying great emphasis on the adherence to convention- the very thing that he and his colleagues are prepared to disregard not only on this occasion but have disregarded during the past 3 years in particular. He said: 
If the Parliament becomes unworkable by destruction of convention, democracy itself becomes unworkable because democracy rests much more on adherence to convention than to the rigid application of rules and laws. 
That is a statement by no other than  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. I repeat that it is quite evident that these are conventions of convenience to be followed when they suit the occasion. One who was particularly outspoken when the Opposition indicated that it may refuse Supply in 1974 was none other than a man who appears to have changed course dramatically in recent weeks. I refer to  Mr Jim  Killen, the honourable member for Moreton.  Mr Killen  wrote an article which appeared at page 4 of the Melbourne  Herald  on 9 April 1 974. Honourable senators will recall that that was before the Opposition moved the motion which had the effect of deferring Supply until such time as an election was held. That threat was applied then as it is now. The article by  Mr Jim  Killen was headed: 'It's a threat to our parliamentary system'. It stated: 
If the Senate can reject a Supply Bill . . . it would mean that the terms of one section of the Constitution were being trampled upon. The Senate would not have equal power with the House of Representatives. It would have greater power. 
That was the substance and the theme of the whole article. Let us look at some other remarks made by  Mr Killen.  In a broadcast of the radio program  AM  on 22 September 1975- the substance of his remarks was similar to those to which I have just referred- he said: 
While it commands respect in the House of Representatives a government has the right to be granted Supply. And this applies to all governments no matter what their politics. 
The Senate has the right to reject Bills which enable the provisions relating to a double dissolution to take force. A Supply or Appropriation Bill is not in that category. 
In an article which appeared in the  Australian  on 19 October 1973, he said:  1 have made my attitude quite clear, that refusal of Supply to force an election is not the Senate 's right. 
On 1 1 April 1974 an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald said: 
The Senate has the power to force the House of Representatives to the people, but the House of Representatives cannot force the Senate to the people. Such a notion was never within the contemplation of the founders of the Commonwealth Constitution. It is a proposition which the overwhelming majority of Australians would regard as absurd. 
An article in the  Australian  on 3 January 1975 said: 
A Senate rejection of supply would place at risk the maintenance of constitutional government in this country. 
I think they are reasonable observations to make and to have recorded in the  Hansard  of this Senate. What does the Opposition claim to be the justification for the unprecedented action it has taken which was condemned as late as 2 March 1975 by its leader and likewise condemned by one of its leading spokesmen, the front bencher  Mr Jim  Killen? First of all, the Opposition cited the Gair affair. I must confess that I would not rate it high in terms of political achievement but the fact remains that since that incident there was a double dissolution in May 1974 and the people spoke and returned the Labor Government. This may not necessarily be in order of happening but in recent days the Opposition has raised the briefing of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions on the Budget before its presentation to Parliament. I frankly doubt the wisdom of that. The Opposition has also in recent days raised questions in relation to ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd. This has been the subject of inquiry by a royal commission headed by  Mr Justice  Collins and I understand that since  Senator Greenwood  last referred to this matter he has made submissions to that commission in Adelaide- I think it was on Monday- seeking to have certain aspects of the hearing in respect to the specifics of the ACTU-Solo matter reopened. I understand that  Mr Justice  Collins has reserved his decision on that matter. 
What concerns me is what I would describe as an unwarranted attempt by  Senator Greenwood,  using the privileges and protection of this place, to attack the findings of that commission. That in itself is a reflection on the gentleman who happens to be the head of that royal commission. 
However, that matter can be settled in another place. 
Finally the Opposition has raised what is referred to as the loans affair. Nobody will contest that a government, irrespective of its political character, is entitled to probe the money markets of the world. We were conscious of the fact that in a very short space of time, by reason of methods employed by the Arab nations, there had been a tremendous shift in the money market. I understand that there was a quantity of money in the region of $60,000m transferred from the normal money markets to what are referred to as the Arab States. The Government in its wisdom decided to attempt to ascertain whether any of that money could be made available to the Australian Government. I will not enter into a debate on the character of  Mr Khemlani.  Time and events will prove that and I hope that subsequently some other vehicle will be used to probe that area. However, the fact remains that  Mr Khemlani  himself, before he left Australia on the occasion prior to his latest departure to wherever he was going, said in an interview at Mascot Airport 2 things which I believe are very significant. One -was that he was satisfied that the Government had acted properly and the other, in answer to a question, was that he made it perfectly clear that he did not expect any payment whatsoever. That is  Mr Khemlani  himself saying those things. 
I know that there are other things that could be said about one or all of the 4 issues which appear to have been used as the major reasons for this extraordinary decision by the Opposition but, taken singly or collectively, do they constitute what  Mr Fraser  has suggested, that is, reprehensible conduct or circumstances which would justify the extreme and, as  Senator Scott  said, desperate measures which have been taken by the Opposition? I had a number of extracts from newspaper articles to read to the Senate on other matters but I will simply say this: Not one newspaper in Australia to my knowledge has supported  Mr Fraser  's contention. Not one academic, and numerous academics have spoken out on this question, has supported  Mr Fraser  's contention. Not one political commentator has supported  Mr Fraser'  contention, not to mention the gallup polls which show an overwhelming criticism and rejection of the decision of  Mr Fraser  and his colleagues to block the Budget. 
In recent days  Mr Fraser  has offered a compromise and I want to quote briefly something which sums up what I believe is really the position in respect of that compromise and what it  means. It appears in an editorial in today's  Canberra Times  and reads: 
The sorry fac;s are that the Senate, through its threatened refusal to pass Supply last year, went a long way towards creating a precedent that threatens Australia 's long-term stability, and that its success in forcing the Government to the polls this year, or early in 1 976, would make that precedent a regular element in Australia's constitutional system. Given the inevitable close balance between the parties in the Senate, and the fact that irresponsible minorities such as sectional parties and casual appointees may at any time tip the balance, for  Mr Whitlam  to accept the Opposition's 'compromise' would do as much to guarantee that long-term instability as to have caved in to the original demand for an immediate poll.  Mr Fraser  appears to have accepted the unreality of that demand. The statesmanlike, as well as the practical, response to the facts that confront him is not that he offer meaningless 'compromises', but that he withdraw completely from the destructive confrontation he has precipitated. 
In other words,  Mr Fraser  now recognises that he has compromised himself and his colleagues and is attempting by his offer to compromise this Government and the Australian people. Worse still, he is prepared to compromise the future stability and wellbeing of this nation. We will not have a bar of.it and I am sure that the Australian community will not have a bar of it either. 
I direct a question to the Special Minister of State. Because of the Opposition's attitude of continuing to defer consideration of the Appropriation Bills in this Senate, has it been necessary for the Government to restrict travelling entitlements and provisions for members of Parliament, including senators? Have there been complaints from members of the Opposition in another place that Ministers and office holders have not been affected in any way? I further ask: Did the Prime Minister recently say tha t the matter was under further consideration? -If so, has the matter been resolved? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDQuestions have been asked in another place as to the effect of restrictions on travel, etc., on Ministers and office holders. On 23 October the Prime Minister, in reply to a question directed to him in the House of Representatives concerning restricted services for members of Parliament said that the position of office holders on both sides of the House was under consideration. This is an area of joint consideration. My colleague the Minister for Administrative Services and Leader of the House,  Mr Daly,  and I, as Special Minister of State, have conferred and have now determined that in view of the Opposition 's decision to defer consideration of the Appropriation Bills funds cannot now be provided, except as follows: Travel will be provided for senators and members to and from Canberra once a week. Travel entitlements of former officer holders still in the Parliament will be equal to travel entitlements of private members. No travel entitlements will be available for wives of senators and members, including wives of Ministers and office holders. Travel entitlements for Ministers and office holders will be available only when necessary for the discharge of their responsibilities. Not more than 50 per cent of non-Canberra based staff of Ministers and office holders will be entitled to travel to Canberra each week. 
In order to conserve funds further the following additional arrangements are to apply forthwith: With respect to staff, no new appointments may be made to the personal staffs of Ministers and office holders without the prior approval of the Special Minister of State. Funds are not available for the provision of short term supplemental staff and assistance, for example, from secretarial agencies. Funds are not available for new arrangements for the purchase or hire of office equipment for Ministers, office holders or former office holders. The provision of newspapers and periodicals at government expense has been suspended in respect of senators and members, including Ministers and office holders, except in Party rooms at Parliament House. These emergency measures will be reviewed at frequent intervals by my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services, and myself, in the light of changing circumstances. 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we are fearful that any further delay by the Senate of the Loan Bill and Appropriation Bills will bring Australia into a constitutional, economic and social crisis, leaving indelible scars on our democratic institutions. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should proceed forthwith to allow passage of these Bills so that the government, legitimately formed by a majority of the members of the people's House (the Houseof Representatives) may proceed with its administration without further disruption. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware that adjustments to pensions in accordance with the movements in the consumer price index will be less in terms of increased pension than they would have been if the formula employed by the former Labor Government had been adopted, namely the maintenance of pensions at at least 25 per cent of average weekly earnings? If the Minister agrees with my observation I ask whether this policy is designed deliberately to reduce the real income of pensioners, because that is precisely the effect it must have. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. In a news release entitled  Cuts in Repatriation Expenditure  dated 4 February 1976 the Minister for Repatriation said that savings totalling approximately $4m will be made in repatriation expenditure in this financial year. He went on to say that $3.6m of these savings would be achieved by paying the autumn increase in repatriation pensions in May. I ask the Minister: Does not this decision really mean that veterans and their dependants will be deprived of $3.6m in pension payments that they would otherwise have received but for the Government's decision? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General although it may well be more appropriately directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It has been widely reported that the Government has requested the AttorneyGeneral to draw up a legal opinion in respect of those sections of the Crimes Act 1914-1 966 relating to sedition. Are these reports true? If they are, is this an attempt by the Government to stifle legitimate critical analysis and objective criticism of the extraordinary and unprecedented action taken prior to and on 1 1 November 1 975 by the office holder of the position of GovernorGeneral of Australia? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether the reduction in Government expenditure of about $300m in the financial year 1975-76 takes into account the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty and the proposed discontinuance of the beef levy which I understand the Government will now meet. How much finance will the Government have to provide to service the bounty on the one hand and the beef levy on the other this financial year? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation: How does the Minister for Repatriation or his Government reconcile his statement of 4 February 1976, namely, 'the Government remains committed to preserving the welfare of veterans and their dependants ', with the announced decision on the same date to deprive the same veterans and dependants of $3. 6m in pension payments this financial year? 
I join with other honourable senators in congratulating the new senators on making their maiden speeches. A maiden speech is quite an occasion. It is an experience now behind those honourable senators. Likewise,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I join with all honourable senators who have spoken today in congratulating the  President  and the  Deputy President  on election to their offices. I concur with all the sentiments which have been expressed by various speakers in respect of the 2 gentlemen concerned. For obvious reasons, I must say, without reflecting on the personality of either one or the other, that 1 trust that they will hold office for a short duration. 
I turn briefly now to the main purpose of this debate. It is to consider the substance in the Governor-General's Speech- that is if one could describe it as containing anything of substance. The Opposition has been criticised by members of the Government for, as they see it, failing to function as they believe an Opposition should function. I can assure Government senators that we appreciate the gratuitous advice that is being given. But they will become aware of the strength of this Opposition at the appropriate time when the matters contained in the Governor-General's Speech are translated into the Government's legislative program. 
The words of  Senator Rae,  of all people, in an article which he wrote for the  Australian  and which was published on Thursday, 1 9 February 1976, summarise so succintly and so perfectly what I feel about the Governor-General's Speech. That Speech purports to represent the legislative program of the new Government.  Senator Rae  said: 
Back I went to full concentration on the Government's policy speech to realise that perhaps its greatest significance was in what it did not say. I leave the analysis to others . . . 
I invite honourable senators to dwell for a moment on what interpretation can be placed on those words 'what it did not say'. It is true that the Speech did not say a lot of things, in the same way as the caretaker Prime Minister, now the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  did not say a number of things in the course of his policy speech in the election campaign prior to 13 December 1975. 
The only satisfaction that I can find in this Speech is to be found in the last paragraph. The Governor-General said: 
I now leave you in the faith that Divine Providence will always guide your deliberations and further the welfare of the people of Australia. 
I sincerely trust that Divine Providence intervenes to protect the welfare of the people of Australia because that is about as much as they can rely on with respect to the present Government. 
Let me say in passing that the opportunity will be afforded to me and my colleagues to debate the issues which will emerge, such as social welfare and repatriation matters and the like, as they are brought forward in legislative form. We will be able then to express in no uncertain terms our views on those issues. On behalf of the Opposition, 1 move the following amendment to the amendment moved by  Senator Harradine: 
At the end of the proposed amendment, add: 
The Senate is also of the opinion that, because of the financial plight of local government organisations throughout Australia, your advisers should take action immediately to re-institute hearings by the Australian Grants Commission for the purpose of assessing appropriate untied and unconditional grants to local government. ' 
My amendment refers to another one of those measures that the Government has announced but which to my knowledge was never indicated previously by the Prime Minister. I cannot find anything in the Governor-General's Speech which gives an indication that this Government intended to discontinue the hearings by the Australian Grants Commission concerning local government. The Government may have an answer to this charge on the basis of the proposed new federalism policy, so called. This is one of those beautiful vagaries; frankly nobody seems to understand what it is all about. 
-Yes, that includes the members of the Government who are highly critical of what this in fact does mean. I point out that, during its term of office, in the financial year 1973-74 the Labor Government allocated no less than $56m for local government purposes. It was untied and unconditional. Incidentally, the first allocation of $56m was the first since Federation, to my knowledge. In the 1974-75 year the allocation was increased to $79m, untied and unconditional. These were grants to local government. That makes a grand total over the 2 financial years of no less than $135m. Anybody who has even a limited knowledge of the financial difficulties of local government will appreciate the tremendous value and worth of those grants to the functions of local government. Clearly, this is something which the present Government has decided will no longer be made available. Therefore I have moved this amendment. Other speakers will not only speak to it but also will elaborate upon the principal reasons why I have moved the amendment on behalf of the Opposition. 
I now move to a matter which seems to give rise to great concern of honourable senators on the government side when we mention it.  Senator Durack  in his speech was good enough to suggest that we had not made any worthwhile contribution to the debate on the AddressinReply. He suggested that we had not acted as an Opposition, as he imagined we should. In other words, we had not raised any matter which I think he referred to as a fundamental issue. I cannot think of anything more fundamental in terms of the democratic processes of our total Australian political system than the events prior to and on 1 1 November 1975. At the risk of encouraging or inviting criticism from the Government I propose to deal with some facets of those events when a democratically elected Government, twice preferred and twice elected within 18 months, was summarily dismissed by the Governor-General. That in itself is a momentous and extraordinary action to be taken by the Governor-General of the day. I am concerned not only about the decision which he made and the action which he took but also about the Governor-General's role prior to and on 11 November. 
If I did not raise this matter I would feel recreant to my responsibilities, not only to members of my own party but also to some 43 per cent of the Australian community. I assure the Senate that many more people than the 43 per cent who voted for the Australian Labor Party at the last general election are concerned and worried about what happened, how it happened and why it happened. During the period when the Senate first deferred consideration of the Appropriation Bills  Mr Ellicott  issued a Press statement on 19 October 1975 entitled  The GovernorGeneral's Powers.  In the statement which he issued, among other things he said: 
The Governor-General's basic role is the execution and maintenance of the Constitution and of the laws of the Commonwealth. He performs this role with the advice of Ministers whom he chooses and who hold office during his pleasure. 
He went on to state: 
The Governor-General has at least 2 clear constitutional prerogatives which he can exercise- the right to dismiss his Ministers and appoint others, and the right to refuse a dissolution of the Parliament or of either House. 
Of course the key reference there is to the right to dismiss his Ministers and appoint others. Further on  Mr Ellicott  stated: 
The refusal by Parliament of supply, whether through the House or the Senate, is a clear signal to the GovernorGeneral that his chosen Ministers may not be able to carry on. In the proper performance of his role, he would  enevitably  want to have from the Prime Minister an explanation of how he proposed to overcome the situation. If the Prime Minister proposed and insisted on means which were unlawful or which did not solve the problems of the disagreement between the Houses and left the Government without funds to carry on, it would be within the GovernorGeneral's power and his duty to dismiss his Ministers and appoint others. 
He was referring to the current situation which he stated was then facing us. The major burden of that statement was to give quite strongly an opinion that the Governor-General was obliged to exercise certain powers within the meaning of the circumstances with which we were faced at that time. On 11 November the GovernorGeneral did, in fact, dismiss the Prime Minister and his Ministers who formed the Government of the day. A letter of dismissal was handed to the then Prime Minister. A document which accompanied the letter contains a statement by the Governor-General which purports to be a statement of reasons for the Governor-General's actions. I shall quote 2 passages from it because they are pertinent. One reference is found on page 2 where the Governor-General stated: 
Once I had made up my mind - 
I ask honourable senators to remember that this is the document which the Governor-General handed to the Prime Minister at that time on 1 1 November-  for my own part, what I must do if  Mr Whitlam  persisted in his stated intentions I consulted the Chief Justice of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick. I have his permission to say that I consulted him in this way. 
I would like to know when, in fact, the GovernorGeneral saw  Sir Garfield  Barwick. That may emerge later on. 
-It is not included in the document. On page 4 of the document the Governor-General stated: 
I should be surprised if the Law Officers expressed the view that there is no reserve power in the Governor-General to dismiss a Ministry which has been refused supply by the Parliament and to commission a Ministry, as a caretaker Ministry which will secure supply and recommend a dissolution, including where appropriate a double dissolution. This is a matter on which my own mind is quite clear and I am acting in accordance with my own clear view of the principles laid down by the Constitution and of the nature, powers and responsibility of my office. 
The key emphasis I make is that the GovernorGeneral said: 
I would be surprised if the Law Officers expressed the view that there is no reserve power . . . 
Of course the law officers of Australia were the then Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby,  and the Solicitor-General,  Mr Byers.  In a Press report on Friday, 15 November- 4 days after the Governor-General's statement- this appeared in the Melbourne  Age: 
The former Attorney-General.  Mr Enderby,  last week gave the Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr, a legal opinion which said he did not have power to dismiss the Prime Minister. 

 Mr Enderby said last night the opinion had been prepared by the Solicitor-General,  Mr Byers. 
On 1 8 November an article appeared in the Melbourne  Sun  under the caption 'Kerr calls in top PS men', and the date line showing Canberra, in the following terms: 
The Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr, yesterday summoned the Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood  - 
That would have been the caretaker AttorneyGeneral  and two top public servants to Government House 
The public servants are the Solicitor-General,  Mr Maurice  Byers, and the Secretary of the Attorney-General 's Department, MrC. W. Harders. 
The summons followed publication of advice given by the Labor Government to  Sir John  before he dismissed  Mr Whitlam  from office. 
The advice, prepared by  Mr Byers,  told  Sir John  he would contravene the Constitution if he sacked  Mr Whitlam. 
It also said  Sir John  had no constitutional authority to dissolve Parliament on the advice of the minority party in the House of Representatives. 
A Government source said last night that  Sir John  told  Mr Byers  and  Mr Harders  yesterday that he was 'seriously embarrassed' by publication of  Mr Byers'  comments. 
It is understood that  Sir John  discussed the matter with  Senator Greenwood, Mr Byers  and  Mr Harders. 
Earlier the former Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby,  said the advice was given to  Sir John  on 6 November - 
Make note of that date-  5 days before  Mr Whitlam  was sacked. 
In his statement accouncing his decision to dismiss the Government,  Sir John  said he - 
This is a quote from something from which I quoted earlier-  should be surprised if the law officers expressed the view that there is no reserve power in the Governor-General to dismiss a ministry which has been refused Supply by the Parliament' and to commission a caretaker ministry. 
One always has reservations about the authenticity, about the veracity, of a newspaper comment, but I have in my hand a copy of the opinion of  Mr Byers.  It is dated 4 November 1975. Incidentally, it was commissioned by the Government and it explains precisely why the opinion was sought. It states: 

 Mr R. J. Ellicott, Q.C., M.P., at the Attorney-General's request made available to him a copy of a Press statement relating to the Governor-General's powers. We have been asked by the Prime Minister to provide an opinion upon the legal propositions which that statement contains or assumes. 
It then paraphrases the legal proposition. The opinion continues: 
The statement expresses  Mr Ellicott  's view that  His Excellency  is legally obliged to take certain steps because of, and as a result of, the current dispute between the House and the Senate. 
I do not propose to weary the Senate with all the detail, but this is the actual document that was handed to the Governor-General on 6 NovemberI repeat, 6 November- 5 days before he issued his statement of reasons. In paragraph 9 on page 13 of the opinion  Mr Byers  said: 
The Senate's resolution indicates an intention to defer passage of the Appropriation Bills until either the Ministry resigns or the Governor-General acting against its advice dismisses it and, upon advice of Ministers in a minority in the Representatives, dissolves it. The Ministry has not resigned and will not do so. That leaves only a forced dissolution.  Dr Jennings  (Cabinet Government, 3rd ed. 1969) observes (at page 403) that 'No Government has been dismissed by the Sovereign since 1783', and points out that there was no dismissal in 1834 of Lord Melbourne's Government (pages 403-405) . . . 
The opinion goes on to describe the forms of dissolution that had take place during the period between 1861 and 1932. Paragraph 10 of the opinion reads: 
We have referred to forced dissolutions only to indicate that their very rarity and the long years since their exercise cast the gravest doubt upon the present existence of that prerogative. 
I interpolate that the word 'prerogative' in fact means reserve power. Further on  Mr Byers  said: 
If such be the section's purpose and intended operation, how is it possible consistently with the Constitution that a reserve power of uncertain existence and unknowable constituents must be exercised in a way necessarily denying effect to the one constitutional provision expressly directed to the solution of deadlock between the Houses? We do not find it possible ourselves to accept that view and to the extent that  Mr Ellicott  does so he is, we think clearly wrong. 
Those short extracts that I have quoted from the actual document that was conveyed to the Governor-General by  Mr Enderby  make it quite clear that at least there were grave doubts raised by at least one law officer in respect to the action that was ultimately taken by the GovernorGeneral. 
I spoke to  Mr Enderby  about this matter last Thursday and I have his permission to convey to the Senate the substance of our conversation. First, the Government asked for this opinion on  Mr Ellicott  's statement because the main thrust of  Mr Ellicott  's statement was in fact, as it transpired, coincidentally the very action that was taken by the Governor-General on 1 1 November.  Mr Byers  was asked by the AttorneyGeneral to draw up an opinion and this is the voluminous opinion that  Mr Byers  drew up. On the morning of 6 November- I understand that it was in the mid-morning-  Mr Enderby,  the then Attorney-General, received a telephone call from the Governor-General asking him to present himself to Government House that day for the purpose of discussing alternatives and, of course,  Mr Enderby  agreed.  Mr Enderby  met the Governor-General in the afternoon. As  Mr Enderby  was about to leave his office to go to see the Governor-General,  Mr Byers  walked into  Mr Enderby  's office with this opinion.  Mr Enderby  looked at it and said that he disagreed quite strongly with a number of the views, which I have already retailed to the Senate that were conveyed in  Mr Byers'  opinion.  Mr Enderby  said that he would take the opinion with him and present it to the Governor-General but that he would also express his own views because it would have ultimately been the joint opinion of the two senior law officers, namely, the AttorneyGeneral and the Solicitor-General, to the Government of the day and that advice would have been subsequently conveyed to the Governor-General. Subsequently that was cut short. 
This was on 6 November. When  Mr Enderby  arrived at Government House and met the Governor-General he wanted to give the original copy of the opinion to  Sir John  Kerr.  Sir John  Kerr did not want to take it, but  Mr Enderby  pressed it on him. Incidentally  Mr Enderby  struck out the signature of  Mr Byers  on the document because there was provision on it for his own signature as Attorney-General.  Mr Enderby  struck out  Mr Byers'  signature and pointed out to the Governor-General that while this was the personal opinion of the SolicitorGeneral, it was not a joint opinion and that he himself expressed strong views in terms of, first, the powers of the Senate and, secondly, the powers of the Governor-General in the circumstances that then existed which were diametrically opposed- I repeat, diametrically opposed- to the action that the GovernorGeneral in fact took. Yet the Governor-General was prepared to say in his statement of reasons:  1 should be surprised if the Law Officers expressed the view that there is no reserve power in the Governor-General to dismiss a Ministry . . . 
I am attempting to find the correct words to use. There is a grave discrepancy or a grave inconsistency between what the Governor-General says in his statements of reasons for his decision and facts which can be authenticated. This is a very grave matter indeed and one which cannot be fobbed off by the Opposition members or by anybody else outside the Parliament as being of no moment. I ask honourable senators to remember that the action taken by the 
Governor-General to dismiss an elected Government was a serious one, unprecedented in modern history. Therefore, it is critically important. It is critically important that this matter be probed in respect of the Governor-General's conduct prior to 1 1 November and his actual conduct on 1 1 November. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, I want to direct your attention to an article that appeared in the Melbourne  Age  newspaper of Friday, 14 November 1975. It is written by Allan Barnes and is entitled 'Critical look at Kerr documents'. I want to refer briefly to only 2 sections. It is a critical analysis of the position. It gives the reader some background information to the events leading up to 11 November and then analyses particularly the reasons stated by the GovernorGeneral for his decision. This is what  Mr Barnes  says, among other things: 
The fact that  Sir John  had the letter ready to hand to  Mr Whitlam-  and had  Mr Fraser  waiting in a nearby room to be sworn in as caretaker Prime Minister- indicates that  Sir John  had made up his mind well before he saw  Mr Whitlam. 
Then there is  Sir John's  statement of his reasons for sacking a Prime Minister- who still, incidentally, had a majority in the House of Representatives- and appointing a man who could not command that majority. 
In his summary of reasons,  Sir John  said: 'If the Prime Minister refuses to resign or to advise an election, and this is the case with  Mr Whitlam,  my constitutional authority and duty require me to do what I have now done- to withdraw his commission and to invite the Leader of the Opposition to form a caretaker Government . . .' 
The questionable point about that sentence is  Sir John  's use of the present tense- 'This is the case with  Mr Whitlam'-  in a document clearly prepared before he had met  Mr Whitlam  on Tuesday and, on  Mr Whitlam  's statement, when he had never been asked if he would resign. 
What right did  Sir John  have to presume that  Mr Whitlam  would have refused to resign if it was put to him bluntly that the Governor-General thought that was the only course? 
Why didn't  Sir John  put his point of view to  Mr Whitlam  on Tuesday and allow him to consider other options including a double dissolution or resignation? 
Later in his explanation,  Sir John  said 'it is most desirable ' that the cartaker  Prime Minister should guarantee Supply. He said  Mr Fraser  would be asked to give his guarantee. 
Yet  Sir John  dismissed  Mr Whitlam  before he even saw  Mr Fraser  to seek this guarantee. Surely he should have received that assurance first. Or was there, in fact, prior consultation with  Mr Fraser  on that point? If so, why isn't it mentioned in the statement? 
I know that my time is short. I propose to proceed with this matter further on another occasion. I say that the Governor-General cannot expect to be immune and hide behind the office that he holds to avoid questioning and the obligation to answer these pertinent points that must be raised in the interests of the future of this nation. When I said that there was a grave inconsistency between what  Sir John  Kerr said on the one hand in his statement and the facts as I have presented them, that is a very soft way of saying what is said by the Anglo-Saxon people in the courts of this country, that is, that the GovernorGeneral in fact lied to this nation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Order! I think that the honourable senator's time has expired. Is there a seconder to the amendment that has been circulated on behalf of the Opposition? 
-I was about to say that I wished to ask a question without notice but I correct that and say that my question was without notice about 9 days ago. I am asking it again because of the inordinate delay in receiving an answer. I direct my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General in the terms in which I asked a similar question on 24 February. It has been widely reported that the Government requested the Attorney-General to draw up a legal opinion with respect to those sections of the Crimes Act 1914-73 relating to sedition. Are these reports true? If they are, is this an attempt by the Government to stifle legitimate critical analysis and objective criticism of the extraordinary and unprecedented action taken prior to and on 1 1 November 1975 by the holder of the position of Governor-General of Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Did the Government request the Attorney-General to draw-up a legal opinion with respect to that section of the Crimes Act 1914-73 on the matter of sedition, as has been widely reported 
If so, is this an attempt by the Government to stifle legitimate critical analysis and objective criticism of the extraordinary and unprecedented action taken prior to and on 1 1 November 1975 by the officer holder of the position of Governor-General of Australia. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that last week the Victorian Government agreed to take over financial responsibility for 26 people affected by the Federal Government's cuts in the National Employment and Training Scheme? Does the Minister know that these 26 people are migrant teachers who have been trained in the English language so that they can teach in disadvantaged schools in Australia? Does the Minister consider the training and employment of migrant teachers to be an essential program that is worthy of Federal Government support? Further, will the Minister inform the Senate how many foreign language or migrant teachers in Australia are leaving their courses because of the NEAT scheme cutbacks? 
I seek leave to table the report of the Australian delegation to the sixty-second conference of the InterParliamentary Union held at London in September of last year. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Omega is the only worldwide navigation system, whose continuous Very Low Frequency signals can be used by submarines to determine their position, while remaining completely submerged. 
That in particular the missile-firing submarines of the U.S.A. can improve their destructive potential by using Omega signals. 
That it represents a major escalation of the arms race, and directly involves Australia even further in nuclear war strategies. 
That therefore an Omega station built in Australia would be a prime nuclear target. 
That such a station would therefore represent a further deterioration of Australia's independence and initiatives towards a non-aligned and peaceful foreign policy. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Australian Government will reject any proposal to build an Omega station on Australian soil. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-ls the Minister for Social Security aware that social workers employed by the Department of Social Security in rural areas have not been receiving payment for travel for some months, thus inhibiting their ability to help people in need in isolated areas? Will the Minister consider reintroducing these payments to enable the social workers to perform their functions adequately? 

 - Mr President, my question may require the attention of the Minister representing the Prime Minister and 3 other Ministers, namely, the Minister representing the Treasurer, the Minister representing the Minister for Health and the Minister for Science. However, I will direct the question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and leave it to his good judgment as to how he handles it from there. I ask: Is the Minister aware that more than 168 million litres, or in the old measurement, 35 million gallons, of wine were sold in Australia last year and that of that total the sales of red wine accounted for 36.1 million litres? Is the Minister aware that red wine contains a headache producing substance known as histamines and that the rougher the red the higher the content of this unpleasant substance? 
It is a serious question. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in today's Sydney  Daily Telegraph  entitled 'Wine growers fight hangovers', which indicates that research is being undertaken by the Australian Wine Research Institute and the South Australian Institute of Technology with  the object of, as the article says, 'taking the headache out of wine'. Having regard to the deleterious side-effects that this substance has on the consumer of red wine, will he seriously consider giving both physical assistance by way of making the expertise of officers of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories and financial assistance available for this important field of research? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade. Does the Government take seriously the outrageous and hysterical utterances by the Deputy Prime Minister that Australia must exploit and sell its uranium to foreign interests or suffer the consequence of having it taken from it by force? Was the Deputy Prime Minister referring to Japan in this context? As Australia has both signed and ratified the nuclear nonproliferation treaty, is not our nation bound by the international obligations inherent in that treaty, which prohibits the sale of uranium to any nation which has not signed .and ratified the treaty. 
I will make an explanation. I did not realise I would have any opportunity to do that.  Senator Harradine  tonight retailed to the Senate information that he believed was advantageous to his case, on the one hand, and more particularly to the disadvantage of the Party to which I belong and to which he used to belong. I happen to remember  Senator Harradine  's history, which goes back prior to the information he retailed to the Senate tonight. It goes back before 1968, and it was in 1968 in particular. I recall very vividly - 
I have been asked for an explanation of why I cannot withdraw. I did not expect that privilege. I recall that in 1968 I was sitting on the executive that heard  Mr Harradine,  as he was then, make a plea as to why he should sit on that executive. I recall very vividly- it is indelibly imprinted on my mind- that when he was asked whether he was in fact a member of the Executive of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in South Australia at one time his reply was: 'I can't remember'. He would either remember or not remember. That proves conclusively to me one thing. He is what I said. I have no retraction to make because I believe he is exactly that and, more so, he is a bloody liar. 
That  Senator Brown  be suspended from the sitting of the Senate. 
Question put: 
That  Senator Brown  be suspended from the sitting of the Senate. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: Did the Prime Minister during the last election campaign make an unqualified commitment to maintain tax deductibility on home mortgage interest rates as introduced by the Labor Government? I further ask: Does he consider that the new proposals which exclude all taxpayers other than first home owners in their first 5 years of home purchase is a repudiation of that commitment? 
I  present the following petition from 152 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Omega is the only worldwide navigation system, whose continuous Very Low Frequency signals can be- used by submarines to determine their position, while remaining completely submerged. 
That in particular the missile-firing submarines of the U.S.A. can improve their destructive potential by using Omega signals. 
That it represents a major escalation of the arms race, and directly involves Australia even further in nuclear war strategies. 
That therefore an Omega station built in Australia would be a prime nuclear target. 
That such a station would therefore represent a further deterioration of Australia's independence and initiatives towards a non-aligned and peaceful foreign policy. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Australian Government will reject any proposal to build an Omega station on Australian soil. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is the Government aware that the new American Ambassador to Australia,  Mr James  Hargrove, was with the United States military intelligence during World War II? Does the Government know of connections between the new Ambassador and the notorious American Central Intelligence Agency? Is the Government aware that the new Ambassador will take over the post vacated by the former American Ambassador, namely Marshall Green, as head of what is described as the 'country team' which is the nerve centre of the Central Intelligence Agency's operation in Australia? Further, what measures is the Government prepared to take to protect Australia and its people from the covert conduct of this sinister and clandestine organisation which has wrought such havoc in other countries? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that section 83AAD of the Social Services Act is administered in such a way that payment of the supporting mothers benefit is conditional upon the would-be beneficiary taking action to enforce an existing order of maintenance of any kind? Are there not cases in which a woman otherwise entitled to a supporting mothers benefit would not get it because she did not take the requirement enforcement action as no legal aid was available to her? Finally, under such circumstances, what recourse does such a woman have to social security entitlements that she may well need? 
It is not my intention to delay the passage of this Bill. I think it is fair to say that there is general agreement on both sides of the House that this legislation, which will have a beneficial effect on those persons involved, is long overdue. It is fair to say also that this is not the fault of honourable senators on either side of the chamber. I believe that this legislation embraces the principles which were either in legislative form or in advanced draft legislative form when the previous Government was in office, prior to 1 1 November last year. For that reason alone, I naturally support the Bill. It is a genuine attempt to simplify- if I might use that term- a very complex piece of legislation. To that extent, one could, I think, say that it is hoped that there will be some greater refinement in due course to further simplify this legislation so that there can be embedded in the legislation a permanent formula which will guarantee the maintenance of the value of the pensions payable and the benefits otherwise payable, consistent with the movement in money values and the cost of living from time to time. However, I was interested to read at page 1860 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 4 May, when the debate on the second reading of this Bill took place, a comment made by  Mr Calder,  the honourable member for the Northern Territory. He said: 
I make a point to the Minister concerning members of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefit Fund who join as married serving men, whose wives subsequently die, who marry again and who leave the Services. It seems to me that there is an anomaly in the fact that the man who was a member of the DFRB Fund paid his money to that fund on the understanding that the pension would go to his wife, whether it was his first or his second wife. 
He went on to point out: 
I have not been a member of the DFRB scheme and have not studied it very closely but I hope that somewhere along the line the pension of the man who joined, whose wife died, who took another wife and left the forces would not be lost on the desert air. After all, we are endeavouring to assist servicemen and their dependents. I just make that point and support the Bill. 
In response to that matter raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  in his reply, which is reported at page 1 862 of  Hansard,  said: 
The last point to which I turn is that raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  It has been brought to my attention already that a number of people have been disadvantaged because remarriage has occurred and the claim of the relevant spouse to the DFRB pension or the DFRDB pension has subsided. I acknowledge that. The House may recall that when the Superannuation Bill went through this House recently provision was made to overcome that difficulty. 
That Superannuation Bill, of course, was the Bill affecting public servants. The Minister continued: 
I have issued instructions to my Department that an appropriate amendment be prepared to make a  mutatis mutandis  alteration to the legislation so that in the future members of the 2 Service funds and members of the Commonwealth Public Service will be placed in exactly comparable circumstances. 
Those comments attracted my attention in particular. I have been pursuing a matter on behalf of a constituent for the last 3 years. The debate on the second reading of this Bill affords me an opportunity to cite to the Senate the circumstances of the representations I have made on behalf of this constituent. I trust that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  who is handling this Bill in this place may be able to indicate to me what the Minister meant in his reply to  Mr Calder's  question. I would like to know what the Minister really means. I should like to know also whether the circumstances of the representations I have made over a period of 3 years and which are still in train- the matter is before the current Minister for Defence but I have dealt with 3 Ministers for Defence to date without receiving any satisfaction- are being considered. The Ministers with whom I have dealt have come from both sides of the chamber, so I am not making a criticism of any party in particular. I am hoping that the Minister- in response to the matter I am raising today- will make it his business to ensure that a satisfactory answer will be provided to me in the not distant future, if not today. I am sure that the Minister will do this. 
I now deal with the particulars of the case to which I have just referred. The matter first came to my attention in July 1973. For purposes which must be obvious to members of the Senate, I prefer not to mention the name of the gentleman concerned. He is a retired major. He had 35 years' service with the Armed Forces. He was with the 2/2 Pioneers in the Middle East. He served in New Guinea and also in the south-west Pacific. He had a total period of active service during the 1939-45 war of 5 years, together with 30 other years which means that in total he gave 35 years' service. He has a distinguished record. I am not attempting to use that as the basis of merit to justify any special consideration for this person. From what I can gather, he acknowledges that he is only one of many in the same circumstances. However, I think it is fair to say that he served this nation well both in war and in peace. In a letter dated 20 July 1973, which was written as a consequence of a letter sent by the former member of the defence forces to whom I have referred, the Secretary of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority,  Mr R.  J. Perriman, said: 
The Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973, which received Royal Assent on 19 June 1973 and applies to all who were members of the Defence Force as at 1 October 1 972 provides for extended widows benefits. 
There is provision in the new Act for payment of widows benefit in the case where a recipient member marries after the date of his retirement; however, these provisions apply only to those who were members of the Defence Force on 1 October 1972. 
As you retired on 28 February 1 970, your pension is payable under the provisions of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1 948-7 1 as amended from dme to time. Section 65 (4) of the Act stipulates that: 
Where a male pensioner marries after his retirement, pension shall not, upon the death of the pensioner, be payable to the widow or in respect of any child of the marriage'. 
I regret to inform you therefore, that in the event of your marriage, your widow would have no entitlement under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1 948- 1 973. 
It was as a result of that letter that the gentleman to whom I have referred contacted me. I asked him to furnish me with details of his circumstances. In his letter giving me particulars, he said: 
I am a DFRB pensioner. I am a widower. I wish to remarry. The lady of my choice is- 
This is critically important: 
A DFRB pensioner, (b) She is a widow. She receives $78 a fortnight  (after tax)  pension but will lose this on marriage. In the event of my death she will not receive any pension. In view of this we deferred our marriage until the result of the Jess Committee was known. I had put this case to them and it was favourably received and your Government included a provision in the DFRB Act 1973 to enable pensioners to marry up to age 60 years. 
Though I initiated this proposal I am not eligible for the benefit as I retired in 1 970. 
If the lady was to live as my de facto the fund would pay her more than $22,500 over the next 10 years, she is only 50 years of age now. 
I am 60 years of age on the 25 September 1973 and we will be happy for her to forgo her pension for the opportunity to live a normal married life providing she is provided for in the event of my death. Both her late husband and I contributed to the fund, my wife died during my service so received no benefit. 
Whilst I feel that this benefit should be extended to all pensioners under the old Act I consider that a case for special consideration exists where 2 pensioners are involved. 
In other words, the gentleman was a DFRB Fund contributor and pensioner. His wife died before he left the Services and, therefore, the entitlement that would have passed to his wife had he predeceased her obviously would not have had to be paid. Under the provisions of the Act as it then was, the lady whom this gentleman now wishes to marry, notwithstanding that her late husband was a DFRB Fund contributor and predeceased her which entitled her to the DFRB pension, would have forfeited her pension if she had married this ex-serviceman. She would have had no entitlement to a DFRB pension if her second husband had predeceased her. In other words, there were 4 losers. This probably is a unique anomaly but, nevertheless, is a real situation. 
I immediately conveyed all that information to the then Minister for Defence, the Honourable Lance Barnard, on 25 July 1973 and  Mr Barnard's  private secretary replied to me on 1 August. I subsequently received a letter from the Minister. I will not read the whole letter. In part he said: 
I recognise, of course, . . .'s difficulties and I have a great deal of sympathy with the case he has presented. You may recall that during the debate on the relevant retirement benefits Bills in the House of Representatives on 30 May, 1973, 1 mentioned that if any anomalies arose in relation to the rights of widows, I would be pleased to have them examined. The review is currently under way and you may  assure him therefore that the circumstances of his particular case will be receiving the most careful and sympathetic consideration. 
That letter was written on 12 September 1973. 1 received a  futher  letter on 8 April 1974 from the honourable Lance Barnard. I had jogged his memory between the date of the previous letter and the receipt of this letter. He said: 
The review is not yet complete. The position is that a number of proposals tor changing the reversionary benefit provisions of the public service Superannuation scheme have been put to the Government for consideration. It is important, of course, that there be a firm measure of consistency in the treatment of widows under both the Superannuation and DFRB schemes and . . .'s case will be re-examined as soon as a decision has been reached in regard to the Superannuation proposals. 
I shall let you know the results as soon as I am in a position to do so. 
There have been some adjustments to the superannuation provisions relating to public servants. I received a further letter from the Honourable Lance Barnard on 26 November 1974. He reminded me that he wrote to me on 8 April concerning my representations and then went on to say: 
I explained that a general review of these provisions was awaiting the outcome of certain proposals put to the Government for changing the reversionary benefits arrangements of the public service Superannuation scheme. I understand that these matters have not yet reached finality. As soon as the Government's intentions in regard to the Superannuation proposals are known, however, the way will be clear to proceed with the investigation of the various DFRB aspects listed for attention. 
I shall keep you informed of developments. 
I wrote again on 1 8 February 1 975 because I had not heard anything of a satisfactory nature and asked the Minister: 
Could you please advise me if there have been any further developments in the subject raised by . . . 
I received a reply on 28 May 1975 simply indicating: 
Any proposed changes to the DFRB reversionary benefits arrangements will, of course, require Cabinet approval and amending legislation. I shall write to you again about . . . 's case as soon as the outcome is known. 
The matter then passed into limbo for some time until the gentleman contacted me again as a consequence of a report published in the  Australian Financial Review  which dealt in some detail with the provisions of the proposed amending legislation in respect of Public Service pensions. 
I wrote to the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  on 16 February incorporating the whole of the file to which I have just referred to bring him up to date, and I pointed out: 
Apart from the obvious reason for reviving the matter with you I was also prompted by a Press report in the Melbourne 

 Age of 13 February on the proposed new superannuation scheme for Commonwealth employees which among other things said, 'this also means that pensions paid to spouses of dead public servants will not end if they re-marry '. 1 believe . . .'s case stands on its own and the DFRB Act 1 948-7 1 should have been amended accordingly. 
Whilst the abovementioned quote from the report is not necessarily analogous to . . .'s case, it appears to me to embrace the same principle in general and add weight and justification for the DFRB Act to be amended as suggested. 
Would you be good enough to give this matter your most urgent and favourable consideration. 
On 22 March 1976 the Minister replied and among other things said: 
.'s case, as I understand it, was primarily concerned with the provisions which cancel the DFRB pension of a widow on her remarriage and exclude an ex-serviceman's widow from eligibility for benefits where the marriage was contracted after his retirement from the Defence Force. 
These matters were listed for examination in the course of a general review of the DFRB reversionary benefits structure initiated by the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Lance  Barnard. The review was deferred, however, pending the outcome of proposals for incorporating amended reversionary benefit arrangements in the new Public Service superannuation scheme. 
That was true. The letter continued: 
As a result of the recent announcement by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer of the Government's plans to introduce a new superannuation scheme with effect from 1 July 1976, 1 have asked for a full report on the DFRB review to be furnished as soon as possible for the Government's consideration. 
My speech has been a little longwinded and I regret the time I have had to take, but I sincerely believe that the circumstances of this case, which I believe is not unique, warrant the detailed submission that I have made on behalf of this constituent. It is germane to the question, in part if not completely, asked by the honourable member for the Northern Territory,  Mr Calder,  and I am hoping that the response by the Minister to that question as recorded on page 1860 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 4 May 1976 may have some bearing upon the case I have referred to the Minister. I will not be critical if the Minister does not have a ready answer to my question because I have been pursuing this matter for at least 3 years and through 2 Ministers. I have not got particularly far. But I ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to take this matter to the Minister for Defence in the hope that he may be able to give us some satisfactory reply in due course. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I am interested to know how field staff and others are to be recruited for the work associated with the taking of the census. Will the facilities of the Commonwealth Employment Service offices throughout the States be employed to recruit the necessary staff? If not, why not? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Victorian Government last week agree to take over financial responsibility for 26 people affected by Federal Government cuts in the NEAT Scheme. 
Were these 26 people migrant teachers being trained in the English language so that they can teach in disadvantaged schools in Australia. 
Is the training and employment of migrant teachers an essential program worthy of Federal Government support. 
How many foreign language, or migrant teachers, in Australia are leaving their courses because of cutbacks in the NEAT Scheme. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that, in answering a question put to her during her recent appearance on  Monday Conference  about the role of the Government back benchers' committee on health and welfare, the Minister replied that consultation with the health and welfare committee is a constant matter? She said: 
They are the committee that work with me and on whom I rely for a great deal of advice and consultation. 
In view of this apparently close relationship between the Minister and the Government back benchers' committee on health and welfare under  Senator Baume  from New South Wales, can the Minister explain the statement by the honourable member for Hotham, reported in the Press on 24 May 1976, that the first news he, as a member of this committee, had of the Government's intention to foist the Australian Assistance Plan on to State governments was the Minister's Press statement of 21 May 1976 which was issued in Darwin? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, either in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister or Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I am not sure of the administrative arrangements within those portfolios. I ask: has any inquiry been made into newspaper and radio reports of recent days on the matter of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation's recruiting and using a young female student in Adelaide to spy, inform and pimp on her fellow students? If no inquiries have been initiated, will the Minister have an investigation carried out to ascertain whether the Press and radio reports are correct? If the reports are confirmed, will the Government consider having this unsavoury practice stopped immediately? 
I present the following petition from 19 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned students and staff at Christ College respectfully showeth: 
That the Commonwealth Government Tertiary Educational Allowance Scheme, be raised from $30 per week to $48 per week. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick  will carry out this petition. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. All honourable senators will be aware that the Prime Minister was interviewed on  Monday Conference  this week. The Prime Minister was asked this question by  Mr Moore: 
Now is your strategy to reduce real wages, the standard of living of the workers? 

 Mr Fraser replied: 
It is a question of rates of growth. Over the past 3 years there has been a substantial shift in real wealth away from profits, away from business into wages and real wage's have increased. As a result of that, there has been less profits. 
I ask the Minister: Can any interpretation be placed on the reply from the Prime Minister to that question other than that the Government's whole economic strategy and the thrust of that strategy are designed to reduce wages and salaries of all employees? 
I seek a little clarification in respect of the matter raised by my colleague and the answer given by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster).  I understood the Minister to say that there was need to transfer some 20 drivers from the car pool to the bus service because of the increased demand for staff in that service. Was this the real reason or was it that a ceiling was placed on the number of persons employed by the Department in the exercise of what I would call dubious economies. Whilst taxi services are being used, the Department has a great capital investment lying idle- 30 to 32 cars at a time-in the garages. If the transfer was made to achieve economies it was certainly dubious economics. I ask the Minister: Was the transfer of the 20 or thereabout car drivers to the bus depot for the purpose of servicing the increased demand there because of the ceiling placed on employment in the Transport Operations Section or was it a combination of that and dubious economies in reducing the use of car drivers and in using taxi services instead? 
-I present the following petition from 327 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That distress is being caused to social security recipients by the delay in adjusting pensions to the Consumer Price Index months after goods and services have risen, and that many medications, formerly a pharmaceutical benefit, must now be paid for. 
In addition, State Housing Authority waiting lists for low rental dwellings for pensioners become never less, and funeral costs increase ever greater. 
Your petitioners call on the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Adjust social security payments instantly and automatically on announcement of increases in the quarterly Consumer Price Index. 
Restore pharmaceutical benefits deleted from the free list. 
The States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974, eroded by inflation, be updated and increased to overcome the back-log. 
The funeral benefit be updated to 60 per cent of a reasonable funeral cost. This benefit, when introduced in 1943 at 200 shillings ($20.00), was seven times the pension at that time of 27 shillings ($2.70) per week, or more than twice the basic wage of 97 shillings ($9.70). 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation. Have pension increases been given recently to Papua New Guinea service personnel who receive repatriation pensions as a result of service with the Australian forces? Can the Minister give details of these increases? 
i ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether it is a fact that the Minister for Primary Industry has recently held discussions with the Australian Wool Industry Conference on the implementation of the Australian Wool Corporation's marketing report. If so, when will the decision be announced as to what is intended by the Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware that the pay section of Telecom Australia has stated that it has no authority to make deductions from employees' pay for Medibank intermediate and private insurance yet it can make deductions for Hospital Benefits Association intermediate and private insurance? Will the Minister take whatever action is necessary to enable employees of Telecom Australia to have deductions taken from their pay for Medibank intermediate and private insurance? 
-I identify myself with the eloquent comments made by both the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  and my own Leader  (Senator Wriedt).  I express support for the motion of condolence on the passing of  Chairman  Mao Tsetung. With the permission of the Senate I shall read into the Senate  Hansard  a decision of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, my own branch. I had the privilege of conveying this decision to the Ambassador of the People's Republic of China this morning. It was a decision made last Friday night. It states: 
This meeting of the Administrative Committee of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party places on record a motion of condolence to the Government and the people of China on the death of  Chairman  Mao, and requests  Senator Bill  Brown ... as former  Chairman  of the Party, to sign the book of condolences on behalf of the membership of this Branch, and that a copy of this resolution be sent to the Ambassador of the People 's Republic of China. 
I was privileged to do that this morning. I endorse the comments made so eloquently by the 2 leaders. 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to statements by the honourable member for Murray, claiming, first, that the Government has handed the Australian Assistance Plan back to the States and is to allow additional finance for those States which decide to continue with the Plan; and secondly, that additional finance has been made available to the States so that they can now finance the AAP on a State basis, it then being up to each State to decide whether the Plan actually continues? As these statements appear to be incompatible, can the Minister say whether either is true, and if so, which statement affects Government policy? 
It would have been rather a unique and novel event if  Senator Sheil  had spoken this evening on matters other than trade unions. I cannot recall him ever speaking about any subject, irrespective of the subject matter of the Bill he was discussing, without his finding a way to launching an attack on the trade union movement. He is concerned about unions having the audacity and temerity to interest themselves in political matters. As  Senator Sheil  sees it, this is outrageous. What he seems to forget in the first place is that the people whom he is continually attacking are the people who produce all the real wealth of this nation. Make no error about that fact. Let us understand this point, and let us understand it clearly: If those persons who are the manipulators of the money market were not able to employ the labour necessary to change the raw materials into finished products, those people would starve to death. Let me say loudly and clearly that the working men and working women of this country are those who produce the real wealth of Australia. Yet you continually attack them. You complain that they have the temerity to take political action. Do you think that they are people separate and distinct from the rest of the community? Do you not think that they are entitled to take political action? 
-I defend their right to do that. I appreciate your saying 'no' and I respect your honesty. But, quite seriously, if you think in terms of your position, you will acknowledge that you are a member of" an association. I presume that you are a member of your profession 's organisation,  Dr Sheil?  You are either a member of the Australian Medical Association or a member, as I think you might be, of the other organisation- the General Practitioners Society. Irrespective of which organisation it is, you are a member of such an organisation. I have observed the AMA and the General Practitioners Society at close quarters in public debates and I have seen the political action that they have taken on behalf of their members. I cannot ever recall your standing up in this Senate and condemning the AMA or the General Practitioners Society - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order!  Senator Brown,  please address the Chair. 
I was addressing my remarks through you,  Mr Deputy President,  to  Senator Sheil.  I was not prepared to go around the Cape; I wanted to speak directly to the honourable senator. I am sure that most persons who have heard  Senator Sheil  speak before will realise the obvious hate that he has for trade unions. 
Of course you have. It shows out every time you stand on your feet in this place. I would expect people who have heard your contribution to accept you for what you are and to treat you accordingly. 
Not much time remains to me this evening. I wish to direct my remarks to the Budget as that is what this debate is supposed to be all about, although one would not have thought so from listening to the contribution from  Senator Sheil.  For 3 years the Labor Government was in office, but never in power because it faced a hostile Senate. A continuous and sustained campaign was maintained against that Government which was twice democratically elected by the Australian people in 18 months. The whole thrust behind the attitude of the Opposition was its desire to remove the then Government from office. It asserted that when it held the reigns of government again it would cure the twin ills of inflation and unemployment. That was the main thrust of the then Opposition's total argument for those 3 years. 
This Government has now been in office for approximately 10 months. What is the result? No good purpose is to be served by Ministers continually rising to answer questions in this place and prefacing their replies in a continuous parrot-like fashion by saying, in effect, that the previous 3 years Labor was in power and certain things happened. The Government must know that the honeymoon is over. It has been in office for 10 months. As I indicated, the main thrust of the argument by the Parties opposite for 3 years was that because of their know-how and ability to manage the financial affairs of this nation they would cure inflation and unemployment. Those were 2 of the major promises among many other promises that were made. In that respect, it is interesting to recall an article from which I will quote briefly that appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 12 June 1972. It is by Peter Cole-Adams. Interestingly, it is headed: 'The Fraser Doctrine of the Disposable Promise'. How true that description appears today. Among other things, the article states: 
In other words, while a politician might find it appropriate - 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. No doubt the Minister is concerned, as we all are, about the sharp increase in food prices for the month of August. A 1 .4 per cent increase in the consumer price index was registered for that month, according to the Statistician. As the consumer price index increase for the September quarter is expected to exceed 3 per cent and for the December quarter is expected to exceed approximately 5 per cent- the former by reason of the big increases in food prices and the latter consequent upon the commencement of the Medibank levy on 1 October- I ask: Will the Minister give serious consideration to consumer price adjustments to pensions before next May and thus prevent the hardships pensioners will otherwise suffer through the reduced purchasing value of the pensioner dollar? 
-I present the following petition from 10 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. The Minister recently announced that since January 1976 $3m had been allocated in grants under the homeless persons assistance program. I understand that only $1.6m of the amount allocated was spent in the 1975-76 financial year. Does this mean that $ 1.4m of the 1976-77 Budget allocation of $2.8m already has been allocated to capital grants and recurrent operating costs? 
I realise the importance which the Government places on the passage of this legislation tonight. My suggestion is not a criticism of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton).  We accept and understand the position in which he is placed. It is 9.30 p.m. The Government requires another Bill to be passed this evening. Is it possible for consideration of this Bill to be adjourned for half an hour so that some communication could be made with the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to seek some assurances from him? That is no reflection on or criticism of the Minister for Industry and Commerce. If that information could be given to the Committee this evening a lot of people would be much happier in their own minds. 
-I seek the indulgence of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  and the advice of the Chair as to whether it is appropriate for me to move that the  Chairman  report progress and ask for leave to sit again this evening? 
-The Senate is in the process of debating three of 5 Bills which will have the effect of disabling the proven and efficient Medibank health insurance scheme which was introduced by the Labor Government. The whole thrust of the Government's argument has been religiously reproduced parrot fashion in this chamber. I shall read from the second reading speech, on the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2). In it the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  quoted a statement by  Dr Catchlove. 
-I thank the honourable senator. No initials were included in the second reading speech.  Dr Catchlove  was speaking on behalf of the Australian Hospital Association and he said: 
The Government proposals for reorganising Medibank have, we believe, made the first real attempt to come to grips  with the enormous escalation in health costs, while maintaining the principle of universal health insurance. 
This is the publicly stated reason why the Government is interfering with what was seen by the Australian community to be a very simple and clearly understood scheme whereby everybody was covered for standard ward accommodation. If people wished to extend their coverage to intermediate and private ward accommodation they had the opportunity to do precisely that, and at the same time to claim tax deductions in respect of payments made to the private funds. I repeat that that is the only stated public reason for this action. My belief, and I believe it is borne out by examples, is that the true reason for the Government's assault on Medibank has nothing to do with health insurance and nothing to do with the health of the community. It is purely and simply an ideological question and it points up the philosophical and ideological difference between my Party and the present Government.  Senator Townley,  along with other honourable senators, simply mouthed religiously in a parrot-like fashion outrageous assertions based on the false assumption that Medibank itself is responsible for the escalation in the cost of health services. 
-Senator Townley implied that by innuendo. I ask honourable senators to consider what the Medibank scheme was all about. It was designed to provide a reservoir of funds to pay for the health services of the community, both medical and hospital. Medibank has no influence on costs. One has only to take into account the recent decision by the doctors in respect of their fees. I do not question the right of doctors to receive a reasonable salary commensurate with their profession and their responsibilities. I do not question their right to have a continuing movement in their salaries commensurate with that applying to other persons in the community in order to meet the ever-increasing cost of living. But Medibank is not responsible for that increase. Honourable senators will recall that in recent times doctors agreed to increase their charges by 7.5 per cent. This must add to the already costly services of the medical profession. I doubt very much whether this has been taken into account by the Government when making its decisions to date. Apart from that 7.5 per cent increase in their charges the new arrangements provided by the Government in this legislation will enable doctors to charge the difference between the standard fee and the actual fee and this will net them an additional 1 5 per cent. 
I have dealt with the medical side and now I want to look at the hospital side. I obtained from the Parliamentary Library a copy of appropriate extracts from  The Medical Journal of Australia  dated 7 August 1976. This is a special article entitled 'Hospital Staffing and Hospital Costs'. It was produced by Professor R. R. Andrew, M.D., F.R.C.P., F.R.A.C.P., of the Department of Medicine at Monash University, Melbourne. I wish to quote briefly from this article and I also seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in  Hansard  the tables contained in it which are of critical importance in order to substantiate what I say. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="069232197609234_20_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069232197609234_20_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069232197609234_21_2.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. The article by Professor Andrew states: 
A comparative study of costs per bed per day in teaching hospitals affiliated with Monash University compared with large non-teaching metropolitan hospitals (1964-1974) shows they are much higher in teaching hospitals. There is no evidence that this is due to the additional costs arising from the clinical schools. Research in the teaching hospitals and the accompanying high professional standards and demands on services are major factors accounting for the difference. Over the decade studied, the resident staff have increased by 77 per cent and other salaried staff by 24 per cent. The index of expenditure for the three teaching hospitals in the decade has increased by 386 per cent. 
The article goes on to say: 
Hospital bed costs over the last 20 years or so have shown exponential growth (Tables 1 and 2). 
Those are the details that the Senate agreed to have incorporated in  Hansard.  The article goes on to state: 
The causes are numerous: increasing sophistication of medicine; higher capital and maintenance cost of apparatus; increasing expectations by patients; and greater demands by doctors who determine most of the expenditure. 
I make one other brief quotation. It is: 
There is no doubt that in all hospitals rapidly rising salaries are the most significant factor. 
Then table 3 is referred to. The article continues:  the intern salary has risen from $2,406 to $9,672. At the same time the highest specialist (full dme) salary has increased from $9,663 to $28,808 per annum. These are increases of 302 per cent and 198 per cent respectively. Increasing numbers of professional staff employed add greatly to total expenditure. In this regard, the aggregate of the resident staff of the 3 hospitals studied (Table 4) has risen from 49 in 1947-1948 to 266 in 1974-1975, while over the same period the paid full time salaried staff (Table 5) has increased in number from 67 to 296, increases of 443 per cent and 341 percent respectively. 
If one takes into account those 2 sources of delivery of health services to the community and has regard to the substantial increases in those service costs, one can understand why there has been such an increase in the cost of health services.. It cannot be laid at the door- I repeat, cannot be laid at the door- of Medibank as a health insurance scheme.  Senator Townley  would have us believe that if we reduced the number of claims made by people for these services we would automatically reduce the costs of the services. There is no evidence- in fact, the evidence shows the reverse situation- of over-use or misuse of the scheme by patients. I will separate the medical system on the one hand and will deal only with the hospital system. If there has been over-use of the hospital system- I am not suggesting this has been the case, but this is the allegation by the Government- it cannot be laid at the door of the patient, because no patient can have himself admitted to a hospital. He has to be admitted at the request of the doctor. A criterion is set down by the hospital to ensure that a patient is entitled to be admitted. So we return to one aspect, and that is the medical system. Generally speaking, that is the general practitioner. 
-I said that generally speaking it is the GP. Usually the GP refers the patient to the specialist, as I understand the system. An over-use would be calling into question the competence of the medical practitioner. If he enjoys the competence which he could be expected to have, surely he would realise that the patient did not require the treatment which was being sought. There is no substance in the Government's claim that the escalation in costs is attributable either directly or indirectly to Medibank. We talk about actual economies of a health insurance scheme. It is not a health scheme, it is a health insurance scheme. It is a scheme simply designed to provide a reservoir of funds for the payment of services by doctors and hospitals. It is nothing more or less, irrespective of the system which is used- whether it is private insurance or the system we introduced. In many respects it could be said that our system was underwriting the private insurance scheme and was propping up an inefficient- I repeat, inefficient- medical and hospital system, the private enterprise system. If we are being perfectly frank about the matter, at least our system enabled people to have access to services which they might not otherwise have had. 
Let us look for a moment at the relevant costs of the 2 systems. Some honourable senators opposite may say that this is old hat. Let me assure them that it is not. Medibank was the most economical and effective means of insurance, as was proved in the very limited period that it was in operation. I refer now to a report on the services carried out prior to the introduction of Medibank. Incidentally, this committee was established by the former Liberal-Country Party Government. It was chaired by  Mr Justice  Nimmo. It reported that the administrative charges for the servicing of voluntary funds, on average, was about 15 per cent and that the charges of some ran as high as 22 per cent. In other words, the purchasing power of those health insurance services was reduced by an average of 15c in the dollar, and as high as 22c in the dollar in some instances. Put another way, for every $100m collected by the voluntary health insurance funds $15m had to be written off as administrative charges. 
What was the position with Medibank? Remember that these figures relate only to the first year of operation and remember the circumstances of the introduction of Medibank, to which I propose to refer a little later. It was shown that the administrative costs of Medibank were no more and no less than 4 per cent. In other words, 96c out of every dollar spent for the services of a doctor or a hospital had purchasing value. Put another way, for every $ 100m that the Medibank insurance scheme derived $96m was available to purchase medical and hospital services. The figures speak for themselves. One of the advantages that Medibank enjoyed, in my view, was that everybody was automatically covered. Nobody had to do anything. If a person wanted intermediate or private ward cover there was an opportunity for him to insure himself. Medibank must be looked at in the light of economy of scale and efficiency of operation. One must look behind the stated public reasons of the Government for interfering with such an efficient and effective operation. The reasons which the Government has given publicly are not the real reasons. 
I refer to the position after 1 1 November when the caretaker Prime Minister, in the course of his policy speech on 27 November, said many things in relation to Medibank. I assume I can say this, because it would appear to be right. He said among other things: 'We will maintain Medibank and will ensure that the standard of health care does not decline '. 
-That is precisely what he said. It would be fair and reasonable to assume that when he said that, he wanted the people to believe that the Medibank to which he was referring was the universal health insurance scheme introduced by the Labor Government.The people were entitled to believe that. I think that is a reasonable observation to make. Prior to his saying that, our proposal for such a scheme had been the subject matter of public debate for about  Vh  years. From memory, I think we actually had it in our policy speech in the 1969 election. We had it in 1972, 1974 and 1975. While we were in government- never in power- it was the subject matter of extensive and detailed debate both in this place and outside by all interested parties when a White Paper was produced. I think a Green Paper was produced. In other words, I cannot remember any matter the subject of legislation of the National Parliament receiving such widespread consideration. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was reminding the Senate of the promise that the Prime Minister made during his election speech on 27 November. He said: 
We will maintain Medibank and ensure that the standard of health care does not decline. 
He obviously intended that the Australian community should believe that he was referring to the universal health insurance scheme that the Australian Labor Party produced. I was pointing out also the extent of the exposure and public scrutiny which our health insurance program received prior to the introduction of the legislation which brought about what is now known and what has been known for over 12 months as Medibank, It was subjected to  Vh  years of public debate and at least 3 elections- those in 1972, 1974 and 1975. From memory, it may even have been part of our 1969 election policy. So it would be fair to say that the Australian community knew and understood what we intended and that it was entitled to believe that what the Prime Minister promised was that Medibank, as it was known, would not receive the kind of treatment that it has received. How different is its treatment by this Government from the way in which we dealt with it. 
The Medibank Review Committee was established in indecent haste. Regrettably, no one outside the Government knows- it may well be that only the Cabinet knows- precisely what recommendations or proposals were made by that Committee. It tickles my fancy when I think of recent statements by the Prime Minister about the need to reduce the degree of secrecy in government. Why should he have prevented the proposals or the report from receiving the same exposure and public scrutiny as our proposals received prior to the introduction of Medibank? I do not criticise the members of the Committee, but they may well be the object of criticism because of the belief that the Government's proposals stem from their recommendations. We would not know whether they do. I think that the members of the Committee are entitled at least to some redress on that score. 
Now I want to refer to the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security on the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2). 1 refer again to the statement by  Dr Catchlove,  which is the basis upon which the Government has relied to substantiate or support its disabling alterations to Medibank, as it was known. He used the words 'while maintaining the principle of universal health insurance'. This sort of argument has been reproduced by a number of honourable senators in the course of their contributions, namely  Senator Sheil, Senator Messner  and  Senator Walters.  I think it is necessary, in order to understand precisely what we are talking about, to look at the precise meaning of the words 'universal' and 'universality'. I believe that their real meaning was the understanding that the Australian people had of our scheme and what the caretaker Prime Minister, as he then was, on 27 November promised to maintain. This morning I went to the Parliamentary Library and selected  Webster's Third New International Dictionary, Unabridged, 1966.  I took extracts in the following terms: universal . . . entire, whole  . . including or covering all or a whole collectively or distributively without limit or notable exception or variation. 
Then I looked up the word 'universality', because this is the key to my argument. It is said to mean the following:  the quality or state of being universal (as in extent, occurrence, or application). 
It is not a question of being pedantic and it is not a question of indulging in semantics. Those are the true meanings of 'universal' and 'universality'. Our program was known and advocated as a universal health insurance scheme. Once anything was done to disturb that universality, no one could still claim, as the Minister claims and as the rest of the Government supporters claim, that the present scheme and the basic concept of the universality of Labor's original universal health insurance scheme are one and the same thing. 
-They are not. That being the case, not only has the Government been prepared to distort the truth and by outrageous assertion to claim that the costs of Medibank will, if not in whole, at least in part be responsible for the ever-escalating costs of medical and hospital services; but it has used the same technique to misrepresent the meaning and intention of our original scheme which was a universal scheme. On neither count can the Government justify the substantial alterations which destroy the original scheme and make it just a hotchpotch collection of alternatives which inevitably will lead to an increase in the costs of insurance because of the additional or increased costs in administrative charges to service those alternative schemes. In other words, the Government is destroying what are generally referred to as the economies of scale. 
I now want to refer briefly to some of the comments made by  Senator Sheil.  As recorded at page 838 of  Hansard  of 22 September he said, amongst other things: 
I am delighted that the Opposition has picked up my implacable and consistent opposition to Medibank. After the last  2Vi  years of debates on the subject I should be surprised if even supporters of the Government had not dropped to my attitude to Medibank. 
It would seem that  Senator Sheil  does not concur with the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  or the Prime Minister. He said: 
Nevertheless in just over a week now the Government is going to take us through the jaws of what I call the Medibank monster'. I should have thought that the Opposition, the perpetrators of nationalised health, would have been more pleased with the action the Government has taken than its members have shown in the debate. They speak as if we were dismantling Medibank. 
First of all, I want to deal with the part relating to nationalised health'. Do I have to repeat that what we are talking about is not the provision of a health scheme as such? It does nothing more and nothing less than provide the funds to pay the accounts of doctors and hospitals. It has no influence over or beyond that precise reason for its existence. To introduce the term 'a nationalised health scheme' is to misrepresent and, I believe, in a calculated and deliberate way, to distort the truth and confuse people.  Senator Sheil  has said that we stated that the Government was dismantling Medibank. I make this comment: It is obvious that the present Government was not prepared to make a frontal attack, in other words, to propose legislation to abolish Medibank. What the Government is doing quite effectively- one must give credit where it is due- in these 3 Bills plus the 2 levy Bills will in fact disable Medibank to such an extent that it will finally be dismantled and destroyed. That is quite clear. 
In order to appreciate this, one has only to cast one's mind back to the debates which have taken place over the past 3 years. One can see from them the stance of the Opposition, as it then was -now the Liberal-National Country Party Government- coupled with interests outside this place, namely, the private funds, the Australian Medical Association and the General Practitioners Society. I ask honourable members to think back over their performance over the past 3 years during our quest to endeavour to honour the undertakings which we gave to the people on 2 occasions. Obviously honourable senators on the Government side did not accept that we received a mandate from the people to introduce a universal health insurance scheme. I am sure that honourable senators on the Government side believed that if they fought us and if they were able to defeat our intended provision of a 1.35 per cent surcharge on taxable income, that would be the end of our scheme. 
We were not to be denied our scheme. We resorted to the use of Consolidated Revenue. On reflection, while it is true that this happened only by chance, nevertheless it proved to be the most effective way of underwriting the charges imposed by doctors and hospitals for the services provided for the people. Why should this not be so? It proved to be the most effective and progressive form of taxation. I see no reason why health services should be separated and dealt with differently from the provision of funds from Consolidated Revenue for defence, for schooling, and one could go on ad nauseam. One might say that this is the most progressive form of taxation and that it is the most appropriate form. Those who are able to pay do so according to their means. Those who are unable to pay are able to derive the benefit as a consequence of those who are in a position to make the appropriate payment. In the Senate  Hansard  at page 847  Senator Missen  repeats these outrageous allegations. 
It was  Senator Messner.  I thank  Senator Baume  for his correction. He is very helpful today which is very unusual.  Senator Messner  stated: 
The rapid escalation of costs, the lack of self-discipline inherent in the system and the Opposition's paranoid concern for controlling people, in their health care - 
And so he went on. He implies that the rapid cost escalation is directly attributable in some strange way to Medibank. That argument cannot be sustained, nor can it be sustained that we had a concern over controlling people in their health care. With the introduction of Medibank for the first time we provided a scheme which enabled people to have access to standard ward treatment and medical services which they had not been able to afford under the previous arrangements of private health insurance schemes. So it is wrong to use such language. The honourable senator also referred to the universality principle. I think I have dealt with that matter sufficiently. 
Let us look at the position now. I think it was at about 20 May this year that the Government decided to act eventually upon some proposals or recommendations from the Medibank Review Committee which nobody knows about, except probably Cabinet. It is quite clear that from the moment it was suggested that there be modifications I say this with respect to the Minister- he was not quite sure where he was going. I do not blame him for that because I am sure that those who were behind him and expecting him to produce certain results, likewise were not quite sure how to give effect to their intentions. But if honourable members think back over the months from last May, June or July until now, they will see that there have been many changes or alterations. There have been statements and counter statements, like orders and counter orders, and so we have what can be described as the Medibank muddle. That describes it perfectly. There is an article in the Melbourne  Age  which I think points up this matter quite sharply. It is dated 16 September, written by Jo Wiles, and states: 
Medibank queries jam funds' phones. Thousands of Victorians - 
I assure honourable senators that this position is not peculiar to Victoria because Victorians are no less intelligent than people in other States- puzzled about the Government's new Medibank scheme, are jamming health office switchboards. HBA, the State's biggest health fund, is being swamped by 1400 calls a day. Medibank 's central inquiry office at Moonee Ponds is getting 1300 calls a day. Medibank offices and the major private funds- HBA, Manchester Unity, ANA and La Trobe- are telling people not to panic 
This happened only 6 days ago. The article continues: 
Most of the callers say they don't know the difference between the ordinary levy and Medibank Private insurance. Confusion reigns supreme'. That's how one private fund yesterday described the chaos. 
It is now September, so 4 months have passed by since May when the Government first announced its intention to do certain things. But it has changed its mind so often that honourable senators can understand why the situation has given rise to such confusion. I think 2 pamphlets have been produced by the Government. The first one was out of date almost before the printer's ink was dry. The second pamphlet raises the question of whether it truly reflects the intention of the new program. I think it is about 22 pages long. I have spoken to a number of quite intelligent and average people. They say that anybody who can understand that pamphlet would, to say the least, be unique. There have been newspaper and radio and television advertisements, not just by Medibank, but also by the private fund organisations. I think it is intended to spend something in the vicinity of $lm of taxpayers' money to explain to the Australian, public the simplicity of this innovation of the Government. That speaks for itself. I ask: Does one have to say any more? I do not think any honourable senator from either side can rise in his place and suggest that this confusion just does not exist. If anyone does, then I think that only adds to what I have already said about the outrageous and false assertions which have been made by supporters of the Government as justification for their support for these changes. A further interesting article appears in the Melbourne  Age  of 12 June 1976. 1 think it sums up what this matter is all about. It is entitled: 
The Fraser doctrine of the disposable promise. 
It is by a  Mr Peter  Cole-Adams. The article states: 
When he says he proposes to do something definite, as likely as not he '11 do something different. 
Can honourable senators think of any other language that could more adequately and succinctly describe what has happened not only to Medibank but also to many other promises? One other brief extract from the article is: 
In other words, while a politician may find it 'appropriate' to promise us all sorts of things to woo our votes, he may find it quite inappropriate to deliver the goods once the ballot forms have been filled in. 
In my view that describes in clear and unmistakable terms the Fraser philosophy. However, this situation is not peculiar to Medibank. As I said in the short time in which I had to speak on the Budget debate, the main ground for the conduct of the then Opposition during the 1972-75 period in pursuing a course designed to destroy a government which had been democratically elected twice within 18 months was its claim: Elect us and we will correct unemployment, inflation and a great range of other things'. This is not the appropriate time for me to talk about unemployment and inflation but those matters speak for themselves. However, the same sort of treatment has been given to Aborigines, the Australian Assistance Plan, growth centres, wage indexation and pensioners. Undertakings were given by the Government during the course of the election campaign that it would ensure that the income of pensioners would at all times be commensurate with the movement in the cost of living. One can prove that this has not been the case at all. There has been 6 months delay between adjustments. In the September quarter there will probably be a 3 per cent increase in the consumer price index. This figure could be exceeded. If we then take into account the anticipated increase of 5 per cent in the December quarter, it means that the cost of living will have increased by 8 per cent over the next 2 quarters, but pensioners will receive no increase between 1 November 1976 and 1 May 1977. So much for the undertakings given to them. 
In summary, it could be said that the assertion by the Government that there was need for these changes so that it could come to grips with the enormous escalation in health costs cannot be sustained. That reason cannot sustain the argument for the alteration of Medibank. The suggestion that patients have been responsible for overuse of services also cannot be sustained. If it is a question of over-use of hospital treatment not only the doctor who recommended admission can be held responsible but also the hospital, because the patient would have to comply with the criteria set down for the admission of the patient. There is no evidence to suggest that there has been over-utilisation by patients to the extent claimed, if there has been any at all. 
This brings me to the Medibank scheme itself. Medibank has nothing to do with health services as such. Our Government attempted to do something about the delivery of health services by establishing community health centres but health services are separate and distinct from the provision of money to pay doctors and hospitals for the services they provide. In the final analysis this is what Medibank will do, irrespective of the way in which it is done, although the way chosen by the Government will be much more costly. The Government's proposals, will transfer to people a burden over and above what they were previously required to carry for their medical and hospital treatment. It was suggested that the introduction of tax indexation and family allowances would improve the living standards of people. It may, but only until 1 October. Once the Medibank levy is imposed and people feel the effects of the Government's attitude to wage indexation and the response of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to the Government's attitude- all of which means that wage indexation really has not been given full effect- it will be found that the people who are least able to bear the cost of these expensive services will be worse off after 1 October than they were prior to 1 October under the original Medibank scheme. Everybody concedes this. Therefore, when these Bills are debated in the Committee stage we propose to move certain amendments. Being realistic, we do not anticipate that we will be successful because of the number in this and the other place but I can assure honourable senatorsand this can be recorded in  Hansard  for- all Australians to see- that when, not if, we are returned to government in 1978 we will restore health insurance to the people of Australia based on the original concept of Medibank, with improvements that may be found necessary to increase the value and efficiency of the system. 
I never cease to be amazed by honourable senators opposite. It appears that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  conveniently overlooked the fact that the accumulated assets of the private health insurance funds stood, I understand, at about $250m. They are the collective accumulated assets. She very conveniently overlooked the fact that there is no doubt that some of those accumulated assets have been employed by the funds to undercut the rate of contribution which normally would have been charged to members of the funds. At the same time the object of the exercise of the private funds is to encourage persons to take out private insurance. It is quite clear, as plain as a pikestaff, that that is the whole intention of the Government. It is advocating this. It is on record that Government members have said this. This was part of the major intention. After the funds have undercut Medibank, by way of deceit, in my view- by utilising accumulated assets to undercut Medibank- after approximately 12 months, if it is that long, the funds will increase their fees. They will do so once they have a clientele in their web. In the interim, Medibank must be disadvantaged. The private funds will have every justification, as a consequence of the increases in doctors fees and of the ever increasing charges for hospital accommodation, to increase their fees. 
We have shown our concern for people who are ill and who had no opportunity to be covered by any fund prior to the introduction of Medibank. Either the Nimmo report or the Henderson report indicated that over 1 million persons were not covered by any form of insurance prior to the introduction of Medibank. We are saying in effect that if the champions of the free enterprise system are so confident of it and of its style of operation being successful, why do they have to underwrite it by subsidies from the public purse? That is a clear question which needs to be answered. 
-Very briefly I want to refer to something which is germane to the matter that has been raised by my colleague  Senator Grimes.  It exercises my mind in the way in which I read the main features of the health insurance levy in the explanatory memorandum which has been circulated with the Bills. I am concerned about 2 references on page 4 of the memorandum as follows: 
. for the 1976-77 year qualification for relief will be measured by circumstances existing in the 9 months period from 1 October 1976 to 30 June 1977; 
The next explanation is: 
. regulations may be made granting relief to other groups of people. (Regulations are to be made to confer relief from the levy on people entitled to Pensioner Health Benefits.) 
I have had some experience with the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances and my view is that the Act should provide clear indications, to the extent that it is humanly possible, of the persons who should be entitled to relief from the levy. I say that for this reason: At least the matter will receive the scrutiny of Parliament in the sense that it is a piece of legislation rather than being subordinate in the sense that it is contained in regulations. I think the Government will be wise to reconsider this matter in the light of that situation. 
I present the following petition from 68 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in the Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That we vehemently oppose the re-introduction of the Cadetship', which brutalise students in their formative years, and which confirms the 'war ethic' in young people, instead of establishing humanitarianism and a positive belief in peace and aid to others. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, reconsiders its decision to re-introduce this scheme which will have the abovementioned brutalising effect on the students involved, and will add unnecessarily to Government expenditure. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 135 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That we object most strongly to the Government's systematic erosion of the Medibank system of universal health care. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should reaffirm its election promise to the people of Australia that it would support Medibank on the universal basis upon which it was introduced by the previous Government. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 41 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembed. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Is it a fact that because the Rolls Royce in the Victorian car pool was unavailable for the Governor-General to attend the grand final of the Victorian Football League on Saturday, 25 September 1976, the Rolls Royce from the Sydney car pool was freighted to Melbourne by road for that purpose? If the answer is in the affirmative- I understand the car was used for approximately 4 hours only- why was not one of the many available LTDs in the Victorian car pool used? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services and it follows the question I asked yesterday. I take this opportunity of thanking the Minister for his expeditious response to my question. I am sure that the Minister has not deliberately misled the Senate but my information does not accord with his reply, in part anyway. I asked among other things why one of the many available LTD cars in the Victorian pool was not used to avoid the necessity of transporting a Rolls Royce from Sydney to Melbourne for the purpose of the Governor-General attending the grand final of the Victorian Football League. 
I seek leave to make a statement on a matter of misrepresentation by the Sydney based newspaper the  Sun  last Thursday evening. 
-I present the following petition from 5 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the recent budgetary allocations endanger the quality of Australian education, especially for disadvantaged groups, and, in particular, for migrants, Aboriginals and tertiary students from poor backgrounds. 
Your petitioners believe that all persons admitted to institutions of tertiary education in Australia have a right to adequate living conditions and that it is the responsibility of Government to ensure that sufficient funds are allocated to protect that right. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
That the quality of education in schools and tertiary institutions be not eroded but extended through the provision of adequate funds. 
That in view of the sub-standard living conditions forced upon many tertiary students as a consequence of a totally inadequate student assistance scheme, there is an urgent need for a substantial increase and indexation of grants provided under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme to the level of a living wage, and, further, that the needs-based grants scheme be in no way jeopardised by any other program of student assistance. 
That in order to preserve the quality of higher education in Australia and so as to prevent discrimination against disadvantaged groups there should be no introduction of fees for overseas students, second degree students, higher degree students or any students. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Last Wednesday, 6 October, I asked a question about a Rolls Royce being freighted from Sydney to Melbourne for the Governor-General to use in attending the Victorian grand final football match. The Minister replied on the same day in these terms: 
When a booking was received recently for a Rolls Royce limousine the Department considered that one of the two held in Sydney ought to be sent down. 
I asked a further question on the same matter on Thursday, 7 October, and the Minister replied in a similar vein as follows: 
A booking was made for a car for that date. 
I ask the Minister whether he is aware that the Official Secretary of the Governor-General,  Mr David  Smith, is reported in the Sydney  Sun  newspaper on the evening of Thursday, 7 October, in bold type, as follows: 
The Governor-General 's official secretary,  Mr David  Smith, said that there had been no official request for the Rolls to be transported from Sydney. 
I now ask the Minister How does he reconcile his answers to me of 6 and 7 October with the quotation that I have just given, that is, the comment of the Official Secretary of the GovernorGeneral which indicated that there had been no official request for a Rolls Royce to be transported from Sydney? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I acknowledge that as the Minister represents another Minister in the other place he may not this evening be in possession of the information I seek. But I should appreciate his obtaining the information at the earliest opportunity and informing the Senate in due course. I am confident that he will do so. Is the Minister able to confirm the reported offer of $5 1/2m for a piece of land near Man's Beach between Woodside and Yarram in the Gippsland district of Victoria for the establishment of an Omega base? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Who requested and who authorised the presence of armed Commonwealth Police at the students' rally in Ballarat on Thursday, 30 September 1976? I also ask why armed Commonwealth Police were on guard outside the office of  Mr Short,  the honourable member for Ballaarat on that same day. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. By way of preface I indicate that on 26 November 1975 the caretaker Prime Minister, who was the Leader of the Opposition, said, amongst other things, when speaking in regard to primary industry: 
We will redress the situation by a number of proposals. 
He also said: 
We will establish a rural bank for long term finance. 
As late as 19 October 1976, which was last Tuesday, the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  in a speech to the Federal Council of the National Country Party in Canberra, referring to the introduction of measures that are essential to long term survival for the growth of primary industry, had this to say: 
I am now engaged in planning a national rural bank. I am hopeful that such a bank or its equivalent will be in operation before or as part of the next Budget. 
I ask: Is it the intention of the Government to honour the undertaking given by the Prime Minister some 10 or 11 months ago or is the opposition by established banking institutions inhibiting that genuine intention? I am prepared to be charitable and say that the undertaking given by the Prime Minister was genuine. I repeat: Is that intention being inhibited by the opposition of the established banking institutions to this long term arrangement of a rural banking system? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I asked the Minister this question on 13 October. I would like to restate the question because it may have been my fault that it was recorded incorrectly. I asked: Is the Minister able to confirm the reported offer of $500,000 for a piece of land near Man's Beach between Woodside and Yarram in the Gippsland district of Victoria for the establishment of an Omega base? The Minister replied to my previous question by saying that he would seek the information for me. I ask: Has the Minister obtained the information I seek? If not, will he use his best endeavours to obtain an answer to my question at the earliest opportunity? 
-The matter I wish to refer to briefly in this debate on the first reading of a money Bill is a matter that I have been pursuing for nigh on 4 years. I refer to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971 as amended, section 55 (4) of which stipulates that where a male pensioner marries after his retirement, pension shall not upon the death of the pensioner be payable to the widow or in respect of any child of the marriage. The latest amendment to the Act that I have been able to locate was made in 1973. In the course of the debate on the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill 1976 in the House of Representatives on 4 May 1976 this provision was adverted to by  Mr Calder,  the honourable member for the Northern Territory. The member for the Northern Territory said, as recorded at page 1860 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 4 May 1976: 
I make a point to the Minister concerning members of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund who join as married serving men, whose wives subsequently die, who marry again and who leave the Services. It seems to me that there is an anomaly in the fact that the man who was a member of the DFRB Fund paid his money to that fund on the understanding that the pension would go to his wife, whether it was his first or his second wife. 
Then the honourable member went on to point out that he had not been a member of the committee of inquiry into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits scheme. The point he raised was that he was concerned- and I repeat I have been pursuing this over 3 years- that the second wife of a member of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund was denied the pension rights that would have been payable to the first wife. 
During the debate on this matter in the Senate on 6 May I cited the comments made by  Mr Calder  and the Minister's reply which is recorded at page 1 862 of the  Hansard.  The Minister said: 
The last point to which I turn is that raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  It has been brought to my attention already that a number of people have been disadvantaged because remarriage has occurred and the claim of the relevant spouse to the DFRB pension or the DFRDB pension has subsided. I acknowledge that. The House may recall that when the Superannuation Bill went through this House recently provision was made to overcome that difficulty. 
The Bill to which the Minister was referring at that time was the Superannuation Bill, which affected public servants. The Minister gave an undertaking to have this matter referred to the Department for appropriate amendments to place persons covered by the 2 Service funds and the members of the Commonwealth Public Service in exactly the same position. The case I cited and which I have been pursuing for over 3 years is very important. It is not peculiar to this one constituent; it has many applications. 
The member concerned had 35 years in the armed Services including distinguished service overseas in the Middle East and in the islands during the Second World War. He was paying into the DFRB Fund. His wife predeceased him. He retired after 35 years and his wish was to marry the widow of a former colleague. This meant 2 things, the first being that if the widow were to remarry she would immediately be disentitled to the DFRB pension for which her husband had made payments over many years. Of course that is the arrangement under the Act. I do not think one could quarrel with that; indeed it would appear as though one could not. However, the fact that the former serviceman had retired, his wife predeceasing him, and the fact that the widow would be disentitled to the pension flowing from the death of her former husband involved a 2-way effect. The pension of the former member, who is still alive and who has already made his contribution to the DFRB Fund, cannot flow on to a second wife. The wife of his former colleague, who served and paid into the DFRB Fund, was receiving, and I presume is still receiving, the DFRB pension; but should she remarry, she will immediately lose the pension and cannot enjoy the security that would otherwise be available to her because of this section of the old Act of 1 948-73. 
It seems so wrong. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  who represents the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  in this place, in his reply on 6 May to my submission undertook to convey my views to the Minister. True to his word, he did so. I received a letter from the Minister dated 22 March 1976. The Minister seemed to be able to cite the representation I had made, and among other things he said: 
. as I understand it, was primarily concerned with the provisions which cancelled the DFRB pension of a widow on her remarriage and exclude an ex-serviceman's widow from eligibility for benefits where the marriage was contracted after his retirement from the Defence Force. 
That is precisely the crux of the issue. In June 1976 I again received a letter from the Minister, because I had brought to his attention a reference to the alterations to the superannuation scheme which would affect public servants. The Minister said: 
As I indicated during the debate in the House of Representatives on the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill 1976 I have issued instructions to my Department to prepare appropriate amendments to the Defence Force retirement benefits legislation so that in future members of the Service schemes are placed in comparable circumstances with members of the Commonwealth Public Service schemes where a recipient spouse remarries. 
Two things claimed my attention. The first was that it is about 6 months since this issue was last raised by me on 6 May and by  Mr Calder  in the House of Representatives on 4 May. It must be 3 years at least since I originally raised the matter. Therefore I am concerned that there has been no finality on this issue at this point of time. The second is that the Minister referred to preparing appropriate amendments to the defence force retirement benefits legislation so that in the future members of the Services are placed in a comparable position with public servants. 
What concerns me is whether there are any impediments which the Commonwealth Government could not overcome to ensure that persons who are eligible within the meaning of any amended Act may not have immediate entitlement. In other words, would there be a degree of retrospectivity? I suppose that if the Act were amended in 1976 serving members would enjoy a degree of retrospective entitlement notwithstanding the fact that they were currently serving and had been serving for X years prior to the relevant month in 1976. To me that seems to be reasonable and logical. If that is accepted by the Government, I hope 2 things would happenfirst, that the Minister would be encouraged to hasten the preparation of the legislation to correct what is not just an anomaly but is so wrong that it begs for appropriate amendment and, secondly, that a person who retired- the constituent to whom I was referring did retire in I think 1970 or 1971- would be entitled to the benefits of the amended Act. Accordingly, I trust that this matter will be brought to the notice of the Minister so that the two things can be accomplished: The expeditious amendment of the Act, and the application of the amended Act not only to those persons who may be able to take advantage of it in the future but also to those who have made their contributions in the terms of their service to this country and their financial contributions to the DFRB scheme over the years during the course of their service. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
-I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
that many people in Australia are denied justice because of their lack of means; 
that at the same time there is a reduction of funding of legal aid; 
that the activities of the Aboriginal Legal Service, the Australian Legal Aid Office and the professional, State and voluntary services are sabotaged by lack of adequate financial support. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should provide an allocation in the next Budget for: (a) the Aboriginal Legal Services and (b) the Attorney-General's Department to support the other forms of legal aid, of an amount of not less than the equivalent of 1 per cent of the amount allocated to the Department of Social Security. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In a letter to me on 4 June 1976 the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  wrote: 
As I indicated during the debate in the House of Representatives on the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill 1 976 - 
That was in May- 
I have issued instructions to my Department to prepare appropriate amendments to the Defence Force retirement benefits legislation so that in future members of the Services schemes are placed in comparable circumstances with members of the Commonwealth Public Service schemes where a recipient spouse remarries. 
I ask: What progress has been made in respect of the preparation of these appropriate amendments to the DFRB legislation? Further, will the Minister treat this as a matter of urgency because of the extreme personal difficulties it is causing to many retired servicemen and their wives? 
My question comes properly within the province of the Minister for Health, but it is framed around a statement attributed to the Prime Minister relating to the new hospital agreements, so I am in a quandary as to whether or not my question should be directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. 
-I shall try both. I ask: Is the report in the Melbourne  Sun  today correct in attributing to the Prime Minister a statement that the Federal Government had a $34m cheque ready to hand to the Victorian Government but the money could not be paid over until Victoria had signed the new hospital agreement with the Federal Government? If the answer is in the affirmative, why is the Victorian Government refusing to sign the new hospital agreement? 
-When the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  was closing the second reading debate, he referred to points that had been made by  Senator Button,  my colleague from Victoria, who led for the Opposition in the debate. The Minister would have expected  Senator Button  to be present tonight. I apologise for his absence, which was not a matter of discourtesy. He had an unavoidable commitment in Melbourne. So, I am sure that the Minister and honourable senators generally will understand the reason for his absence. 
I am not sure that I should dignify the contribution that was made by  Senator Hall,  because it was one of the most pathetic I have ever heard from him in the time he has been in the Senate. I wish to clarify 2 comments he made. He challenged the Opposition to indicate whether we supported the statement made by Premier Wran the other day about the need to amalgamate unions and to reduce the multiplicity and fragmentation of trade unions in Australia. I remind  Senator Hall  that the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which was formed in 1926, had as one of its major objectives industrial unionism, which meant inevitably the amalgamation of unions. I can only find one platform of the political wing of the Labor movement going back to 1973, but from memory I can assure the Committee that for many years the Australian Labor Party has had a proposal such as this: 
It is proposed that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and Regulations be amended to enable, among other things, a speedy method of amalgamation of unions subject to its endorsement by a majority of members who vote in a plebiscite. 
I also point out to  Senator Hall  that in recent weeks- in fact, I think in recent days- my Leader, the Honourable Gough Whitlam, on more than one occasion in the course of speeches he has made at various functions has put quite strongly the need for the Australian trade union movement to be rationalised and to be constructed along the lines of the West German trade union movement, to which reference has been made this evening. 
I also remind  Senator Hall  that during the period from 1973 to 1975, when there was a Labor government, we . proposed legislation which would have facilitated the very matter about which he was challenging us this eveningthe amalgamation of trade unions. Interestingly enough, when the Labor Party first announced its intention to do this the then Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Lynch,  the present Treasurer, was loud in his plaudits and support for our proposal. There was not one employer organisation, whether it be a chamber of manufactures or a chamber of commerce, which did not indicate its strong support for this proposal. Of course, the ACTU supported it. Before legislation could be discussed in the House of Representatives certain individuals from certain trade unions visited Canberra and spoke to  Mr Lynch.  For reasons best known to people other than members of the Labor Party,  Mr Lynch  changed course. Interestingly enough, one gentleman who travelled to Canberra to see  Mr Lynch  has been mentioned already this evening in the course of the second reading debate. He is the  president  of the Federated Clerks Union of Australia,  Mr Maynes.  I will leave honourable senators to place their own interpretation on that. 
I think it would be reasonable to say that  Senator Hall,  notwithstanding the fact that he was not in the Liberal Party fold at the time, joined with the then Opposition to oppose the proposals for the facilitation pf amalgamations that we introduced in 1973. So  Senator Hall,  on reflection, would have to agree with me that he could not make the grade outside the Liberal Party. If his speech this evening was an attempt to ingratiate himself with the Liberal Party, then he certainly fell far short of what I would imagine his colleagues would expect from him after his history in the political movement. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer the Minister to the recent report in the Melbourne  Age  detailing 8 community centres in Melbourne's western suburbs which are closing as a result of the axing of the Australian Assistance Plan. Has the Minister discussed with her officers or her Victorian colleague any way by which these centres could remain open for the 4000 clients who use them each week? Has any decision been made on the ownership of equipment and furnishings bought by these groups with Australian Assistance Plan funds? If no decision has been made, will the Minister treat the matter as an urgent one so that the 500 volunteers who work in the centres will know whether it is possible to maintain the service for a further period? 
-Firstly, let me say that I am pleased that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has proposed this amendment to refer the matter to the Standing Orders Committee. I do not say this with any ego, but I gave this matter my attention last evening and I discussed it with some of my colleagues with the intention of encouraging, I hoped, sufficient honourable senators on this side of the chamber to give consideration to the very measure on which the Leader of the Government has taken the initiative. Before I finish on that point I should like to say that, on examining the matters that arose out of the ques- . tions and answers and the subsequent statement made by you,  Mr President,  I have been interested in attempting to ascertain on what reference I could rely to determine. the procedures for the tabling of documents and the order for the printing of documents and from what authority we derive them, apart from standing orders, if any. 
I attempted also to ascertain whether there was any reference to this in the previous editions of  Australian Senate Practice  which, might I say at the outset, I believe to be a handbook or a manual of invaluable merit not only to people who grace this chamber but also to students of politics and other interested persons who endeavour to obtain some understanding of the forms, the procedures and the conduct of this Senate in this day and age. It is only the compilation of all those events of yesteryear, since the beginning of the Senate, that have been drawn together in the way in which the  Clerk  of the Senate has done it, which has produced what I would describe as a manual or a handbook not only for students but also for practising politicians. Let me mention the matter that exercised my mind, apart from the questions and answers. I refer to the Senate  Hansard  of 1 8 February and the statement that you,  Mr President,  made on that occasion when you said, amongst other things: 
I lay on the table in manuscript form the fifth edition of the Australian Senate Practice by the  Clerk  of the Senate. 

 Mr President, you then said: 
I recommend to the Senate that the fifth edition of  Australian Senate Practice  be printed as a parliamentary paper. 
I think that is the very question Which creates this dilemma referred to by the Leader of the Government about the device, on the one hand, and what may be considered to be the proper functions and role of an author in another field. 
What concerns me is the implied authority and status of this document once it receives what I suppose most people would consider to be the imprimatur of this House of Parliament to the printing of the document. It does not worry me so far as it purports to describe the customs, practices, procedures and precedents that have been established over the years. I am afraid that on examining certain aspects not only of this edition but also of previous editions- but the last edition in particular- I find that in fact the book extends beyond what one could expect to see in a manual where it incorporates a personal opinion or alternatively a dogmatic assertion about matters of high constitutional debate presently in train in the community. I am wondering whether that will detract from the value and the efficacy of this production as a manual or a handbook. I do not, for one moment, question the reference made by you,  Mr President,  last evening, which in effect described the reply of the  Clerk  of the Senate, because that is the only way it can be done in this place. However, it concerned me on 2 accounts. One was the reference to the statement which read: 
I acknowledge- and the published work itself indicatesthat I have followed the practice I have adopted in the preparation of all five editions of  Australian Senate Practice,  that of correcting and revising the text during the printing stage. While proof-reading, I have always kept the work up-to-date with new matter, precedents anc! practices, and I nave also changed the language and made additions if I thought I could better express a meaning. I emphasise, however, that the revisions made have in no way changed the essence of the book. 
Firstly, I looked to see what authority anyone would have to change matter or to include new matter, in particular, in the document that has been tabled and approved for printing. Standing order 356, of course, is not very helpful. I then examined the only other reference I could find, which was the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908-1963 as amended in 1974. I ascertained that there were no regulations or rules which accompanied that Act and which would enable some liberal interpretation of the practice that has been followed in the past following the order by the Senate to print the document. As I said earlier, I then examined the fourth edition of the  Australian Senate Practice  which refers to this section of the Standing Orders.1 examined also the latest edition- the fifth edition- and they are much the same. It seemed to me that that was the first problem with which we were faced. The proposal put forward this evening by the Leader of the Government in the Senate to refer the matter to the Senate Standing Orders Committee is the right thing to do. 
I have raised this other question, not wanting to get into an area of argument but rather because I think the Senate should ascertain and establish the status of this publication, having regard to the fact that if it is approved by the Senate for printing that is done by way of standing order 365. That view is fortified by the Act. 
The distribution list of papers processed in this way is quite extensive. This book will go to people who are students of politics, to universities and to newspapers. One newspaper has picked up this matter already. I think this in some way highlights my worry. Rather than the fifth edition being seen as I believe it should be, it is being seen as simply another contribution to the debate on the great constitutional question which arose on this day last year. I quote briefly from an article by Laurie Oakes, the Chief of the Sun's Canberra Bureau. In the Melbourne  Sun  of today 's date he said: 
There is still fierce argument over whether the GovernorGeneral,  Sir John  Kerr, acted properly in sacking a government which held a comfortable majority in the House of Representatives. 
He also said: 
Anyone who thought these issues had been settled by the result of the 13 December election last year should be disabused of that illusion by the publication of 2 important books this week. 
One of them- the fifth edition of  Australian Senate Practice  by the  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr J.  R. Odgers, concludes that both the Upper House and the Governor-General acted within their legitimate powers. 
The other-  The Makers And The Breakers  by Richard Hall and John Iremonger- arrives at the view that both  Sir John  Kerr and the Liberal-NCP senators acted improperly . . . 
The interesting thing is that both books draw evidence from the conventions at the end of the last century which drew up the Constitution. 
And they arrive at diametrically opposed conclusions. 
I am not speaking for the purpose of attracting any disagreement or argument about what happened last year or whether the opinions of  Mr Odgers  or of the persons who wrote the book referred to in the article are right or wrong. That is not the point which I am making. I am concerned firstly that the Standing Orders and the Act which provides for the printing of documents must be looked at closely. The second and, I think, fundamentally important and pertinent point is the status of the fifth edition of the  Australian Senate Practice.  If it is to be seen in the light described by Laurie Oakes I think it will be a tragedy. I believe it will be seen in that way. I believe that it, together with the other germane matters which have been raised, ought to be considered by the Standing Orders Committee. I make that contribution for no reason other than to attempt to have the issues originally raised yesterday and the subsequent matters raised today referred to the Standing Orders Committee. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of statements by the Victorian Minister of Consumer Affairs,  Mr Maclellan,  which criticised the Federal Government for allowing dangerous toys into the country?  Mr Maclellan  said: 
The Federal Government lectures us about these toys then allows them in under customs regulations. 
Is the Minister aware of concern being expressed at the potentiality of many of these toys to injure and maim children? In view of these criticisms, can the Government outline the measures it will take to stop these toys from entering Australia? When will such measures be implemented? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. In answer to a question by  Senator Georges  earlier this afternoon the Minister said that reasonable steps to obtain employment have to be taken by unemployed persons in order to be eligible for the unemployment benefit. Are reasonable steps to obtain employment a prerequisite for all payments of unemployment benefit? Is this requirement applied individually to all persons applying for the unemployment benefit? Will this criterion apply individually to all school leavers? Does not the Minister agree that such discretionary powers cannot apply to a section of the community collectively? In the light of confusion in the minds of many thousands of Australian school leavers and parents, will the Minister make a public statement clarifying her instructions about eligibility and entitlement to unemployment benefit? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether he is aware of a report by  Mr S.  Rawling  of the Australian National University Careers Office which shows graduate unemployment at a level of 10 per cent, which is twice the national average. Further, the report states that the major reason for this high level of unemployment is a decline of Public Service appointments from 17 per cent in 1975 to 8 per cent in 1976. Can the Minister outline proposals relating to Public Service  intake for 1977? Will the intake be increased to offset graduate unemployment which represents individual hardship and, one might say, a waste of human resources? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of the Government's announcement that it would do everything in its power to prevent the identifiable effects of devaluation upon the consumer price index flowing into wages, I ask: What measures does the Government propose to adopt other than putting submissions to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? Will not any further erosion of the purchasing power of employees reduce even further the level of consumer spending and thus the demand for manufactured goods? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: If a school leaver approaches the Commonwealth Employment Service, is he or she entitled to register for employment? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. It is in respect of a question I asked of the Minister on Monday. I was not here yesterday and I have not had a chance to check  Hansard  this morning to see whether there has been a reply to that question. But I shall repeat the question: If a school leaver approaches the Commonwealth Employment Service, is he or she entitled to register for employment? I think that is a reasonably simple question and I trust that we can have an expeditious answer as thousands of school leavers will be directly affected by the response. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and relates to the Government's recent review of the tariff structure consequent upon the devaluation of the Australian dollar and the subsequent decision either to remove temporary assistance or to reduce tariff levels in selected areas where such reductions will not have adverse effects on local industry. Because the Government's decision has attracted widespread interest, I ask: Has the Government prepared for publication a list of the affected items, said to be in excess of 900? If not, will the Government do so at the earliest opportunity? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I ask: If the Director-General of her Department finds that a school leaver has applied consistently but unsuccessfully for work during the months of December of this year and January of next year will that school leaver be paid retrospectively from the date when the Director-General determines that he or she had fulfilled all conditions in the Social Services Act for entitlement to unemployment benefit? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the Government's recent review of the tariff structure consequent upon the devaluation of the Australian dollar and the subsequent decision in selected areas to either remove temporary assistance or reduce tariff levels where such reductions will not have adverse effects on local industry, has the Government prepared a list for publication of the affected tariff items said to be in excess of 900; if not, will the Government do so at the earliest opportunity. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he is aware of serious allegations made by  Mr Gordon  Bryant MHR and  Mr Jim  Dunn, who is well known to members of this chamber, relating to the deaths of 6 Australian journalists in East Timor. As I am led to believe that  Mr Dunn  is to present his report to the Government, I ask whether upon receipt of  Mr Dunn's  report the Minister will have the report tabled in the Parliament. Will the Government institute forthwith a public inquiry into the deaths of the Australian journalists, as a gesture of genuine endeavour to establish who in fact was responsible for their deaths? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs whether he is aware that in 
December 1976 the Industries Assistance Commission, which is to commence an inquiry on 14 March into the furniture industry, a $500m industry employing some 25 000 employees, gave an undertaking to the industry to inspect factories in the Sydney area before the inquiry began. The IAC advised the industry on 9 February 1977 that insufficient funds were available for air fares to Sydney for the planned 2-day inspection by the 2 commissioners. Did the Minister receive a telegram from the Australian Council of Furniture Manufacturers, an employer organisation, and the Federated Furnishing Trade Society of Australasia, an employee organisation, protesting against this decision and offering to pay the air fares and any accommodation required by the commissioners? Will the commissioners now travel to Sydney by car in lieu of aeroplane to honour the undertaking given in December regarding the inspections? I am intrigued to know what the cost difference would be between the differing travel arrangements. Has this happened to other industries? Finally, how can the IAC be expected to give effect to its statutory responsibilities if it is deprived of necessary funds to service its activities? 
-This urgency motion provides an opportunity for the Senate to examine in some depth, although rather briefly, the Government's industrial relations policy and performance as it presents obstacles to the achievement of the co-operative and co-ordinated approach required to overcome the economic problems confronting the nation. I shall attempt to express my views about this in 2 ways. The first relates to what I describe as the overt actions of the Government. They are rather clear, at least in part, insofar as it has produced legislation in the form of amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which would introduce what has been described as the Industrial Relations Bureau. I do not propose to canvass that aspect because I think that sufficient has been said about that by my colleagues. There are also the subsequent amendments, which I understand are still being prepared, to the Trade Practices Act which would affect the operations of trade unions. That is one aspect. The more important and much more sinister considerations, I think, are what I describe as the covert acts of this Government which certainly impede and prejudice any likelihood of the sort of cooperation which is critically essential for the establishment of relationships between the 2 major ingredients in our economy which would enable capital and labour to find a way through the economic morass in which this country finds itself at present. To do that I think it is necessary to go back to square one and remind ourselves of what the caretaker Prime Minister said in his policy speech on 27 November 1975. Among other things he said: 
We will work positively in co-operation with trade unionists. 
This applies to the subject matter before the Senate today. I would have thought that of critical importance to that proposal would be an understanding of trust between the Government and trade unionists. Referring to his hope of a government, he said: 
It will support wage indexation. 
He referred to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission being given much greater opportunity to maintain its guidelines for wage indexation and tax indexation. He said: 
Our reforms will maintain the purchasing power of wages and ease the pressure for excessive wage demands. 
He rounded off by saying, among other things: 
An improvement in industrial relations is fundamental to prosperity. 
I could not agree more. I am sure that the trade union movement would completely agree with that pronounced policy of the caretaker Prime Minister who was seeking a mandate and endorsement from the Australian people. He received it. Whether we like it or not, he did. Within 2'/4 months- my colleague  Senator 
Button has already referred to this- the Government briefed counsel to appear before the Commission. The effect of the brief was to deny the unequivocal undertaking given by the Prime Minister on 27 November 1975 of continuing support for wage indexation as it then existed. More importantly are the statements by the Prime Minister on  Monday Conference  on 24 May 1976.1 think this is the real crux of the issue.  Mr Robert  Moore, the interviewer, asked many questions of  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. The title of the program was 'The First Six Months- With the Prime Minister'.  Mr Moore  said: 
I'd like to take up one small passage from  Mr Lynch  's statement on Thursday night which hasn't been commented on as much as I would have thought, and he said this: 'Sustained recovery can hardly come about so long as real wages are maintained at the inflated level which over the past 3 years they have attained '. 
This the question to the Prime Minister: 
Now, is your strategy to reduce real wages, the standard of living of the workers? 
The Right Honourable Malcolm Fraser replied: 
It's a question of rates of growth. Over the past 3 years there's been a substantial shift in wealth away from profits, away from businesses into wages and real wages have increased. As a result of that, there's been less profits . . . 
So, first of all, we have the unequivocal undertaking in the policy speech of the Prime Minister,  Vh  months later we have the submission made by the Government in opposition to full wage indexation and 6 months or thereabouts after the policy speech we have the statement by the Prime Minister which I suggest shows the real overt policy of the Government in industrial relations. What has really happened since the first case on wage indexation after this Government came into office? I shall read from a document which is the submission by the Australian Council of Trade Unions to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on 19 April 1977, put by R. J. Hawke, the  president  of the ACTU. These facts cannot be refuted. He said: 
The decision of the Commission on the September quarter 1976 CPI was handed down on 22 November 1976, which gave wage increases to compensate for price increases which had already occurred in previous months. The $5. 70 increase did not become operative until the beginning of April 1977. Thus there has been in fact a wage freeze operating in this country for the last 4 months in a period when the very considerable inflation which has been hitting the Australian community has been caused not by wages but by the misguided decisions of the Australian Government. 
And let us put that fact of the recent four month wages freeze into the larger perspective of the full period of wage indexation. Since indexation was introduced in April 197S, money wage increases have not kept pace with the increase in consumer prices. From March 1975 to December 1976, average weekly earnings increased by 23. 1 per cent, whereas over the corresponding period the CPI increased by 26 per  cent- that is real wages have not simply been frozen but have declined by almost 3 per cent. 
It is important, therefore, to put into this context the proposition for a 3 month wages freeze and the Prime Minister's observations about the $3.70 of March 31. The purchasing power of average weekly earnings was reduced by about 5 per cent in the December quarter 1976. On the basis of conservative estimates there will be a further 2 per cent to 3 per cent reduction in the purchasing power of wages in the March quarter 1977. To impose a wage freeze in these circumstances would be grossly inequitable. In the last 6 months there has been a savage reduction in real wages as the purchasing power of average weekly earnings has fallen by almost 8 per cent in this time. 
Admittedly it has been the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which has made that decision but that has been done at the behest of this Government in the strong submissions which have been made by counsel briefed by it to oppose full wage indexation contrary to the clear, unequivocal undertaking given by the Prime Minister. At the same time, what has happened to profits? The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in an address to the Sydney Chamber of Commerce on Friday 1 1 March 1977 stated: 
Because dry statistics do not, perhaps, have sufficient impact, let me give you some specific illustrations of the extent to which pre-tax profits have risen: ICI up 63.3 per cent in the year ending last September -  that is 1976- 
Hamersley up 80.2 per cent in the year to last December; National Bank up 29.7 per cent in the year ending last September and, BHP, on an after-tax basis, up 41.3 per cent in the half year ending December last. 
I am sure honourable senators will agree that those figures speak for themselves. How, under any circumstances, could the trade union movement be expected on this occasion to accept such a proposal when the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Sinclair)  was very swift to indicate that he was sure that there were certain perishable primary products which could not be subject to the price freeze. There are numerous other instances which can be cited but I shall not waste my time now. They are there to be seen by people who take an interest in these things. The trade unions were not able to obtain guarantees that the price freeze would occur for the next 3 months. It has already been shown that wages have already been frozen for at least 4 months and that they have not kept abreast of the consumer price index. In fact, wages are approximately 8 per cent below the present level of the consumer price index. Therefore the trade union movement was entitled to ask for some additional information before it was prepared to be a complete party to any agreement between the heads of government, employers, commercial interests and other interested groups in the community. 

 Senator Lewis referred to industrial disputes and lost time through strikes. I am not sure about  Mr Hamer.  I think he is a resonably honest gentleman. A report about him appears in the Melbourne  Herald  of 25 February 1977 under a Washington dateline. The report, which is attributed to him, states: 
Reports of strikes and industrial unrest in Australia were exaggerated, the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer,  said today. I believe we are our own worst enemies', he told an American news conference. 
The vast majority of businesses do not suffer from work stoppages. A clear majority of factories have never known a strike in their history. ' 

 Mr Hamer is saying that; not a member of the Australian Labor Party or of the trade union movement. Let us take into account the facts which  Senator Lewis  produced. They show that there has been a substantial decline in industrial disputation. There has been a substantial decline in excess pressure for increases in what I describe as legitimate wages, having regard to the ever increasing movement of prices. It can be shown that over the last 12 months wages have not kept pace with prices. This brings me to the next point. I ask: What is this latest ploy? I describe it as the overt not the coven action in relation to the industrial policy of the government. What is this last exercise all about? I can find no words better than those attributed to  Mr Kenneth  Davidson in the Melbourne  Age  of today. I think most people consider he is a respected commentator on economic matters. The article is found on page 4 of today's Melbourne  Age.  It is entitled: 
 Freeze ' was a political ploy. 
Among other things he stated: 
The basic reason  Mr Fraser  and some of his Public Service advisors were attracted to  Mr Hamer's  vague idea in the first place was that they saw the possibility of creating an emotional climate where the unions would be forced to accept even bigger cuts in real wages or at the least the blame for the avalanche of prices increases which are already in the pipeline as a result of devaluation. 
Finally, he stated: 
Basically, the freeze has never been seen as an economic exercise but as an exercise in transferring the blame for the inevitable deterioration in the economy from the Government to the trade unions. 
In my view that in a nutshell is precisely what the Fraser Government's industrial policy has been designed to bring about- a confrontation in the hope that it will enable the Government to shift attention from its own mismanagement and to blame it on the unions and so bemuse the people into believing that if it had not been for the unions taking what is the proper stand and the stand they are entitled to take on behalf of their members, this so-called wages-prices freeze or this myth- it cannot be described as anything else- may otherwise have succeeded. It just does not seem physically or financially possible. It is a contradiction in itself. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and I refer to an article in the  Pharmacy Gazette  of April 1977 entitled 'Another  Major Australian  Flu Epidemic'. In part the article states: 
A  major  influenza epidemic is anticipated for Australia this coming winter. 
But a significant number of people will be attacked, predominantly by the Victorian strain, and it is probable that quite a few deaths will take place. 
What is more, no shortage of supplies are anticipated. This is because the CSL in Melbourne this year knew in plenty of time what to expect, and production was geared accordingly. 
What concerns me is the anticipated supply. Will the Minister assure the Australian community that maximum support will be given to the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in Melbourne to guarantee adequate supplies of vaccine to combat this anticipated epidemic? 
-Will the Minister for Social Security release to Senate Estimates Committee D explanatory notes on expenditure under the National Welfare Fund, as she did in September last year? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It arises from an article which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  of today's date entitled Spy alleges "deception against Australia" Pine Gap mystery deepens'. It is necessary for me to quote briefly from the article. It will I am sure, help the Minister who seems to indicate that he does not read the newspapers. Amongst other things, the article states: 
The claims coincide with recent information given to the  Financial Review  in Canberra that the Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr, was briefed by a senior Australian defence official on 8 November 197S, about allegations from the CIA that the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  was jeopardising the security of the American bases in Australia. 
It goes on to say: 
The briefing to the Governor-General on 8 November followed a briefing given in Washington earlier on the same day by the then head of the East Asia Division of the CIA,  Mr Shackley  to the Australian security intelligence representative in Washington- 
-It was 8 November. 
-In 1975. I ask the Minister: Because of the grave implications these statements have for the Governor-General particularly in regard to his actions prior to and on 1 1 November 1975, will the Prime Minister draw this article to the attention of  Mr Justice  Hope who has been inquiring into the intelligence and security services, for him to make an investigation and report? I further ask: If  Mr Justice  Hope decides that the matter warrants his attention, will the Prime Minister ensure that the Governor-General is recalled from overseas to facilitate such investigation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I understand that the Government has finalised the purchase of the Fawnmac group of pharmaceutical manufacturing companies. If my assumption is correct, why did the Government allow this organisation to increase its wholesale prices sharply on 14 items on 14 April 1977, the day after the Prime Minister stated that the price freeze was in operation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I invite the attention of the Minister to an important and responsible editorial in this morning's edition of the  Australian Financial Review  entitled 'CIA: Fraser cannot just sit on his hands'. I shall quote briefly from that editorial. It states: 
The allegation (not as yet denied by any government authority) that the CIA has tapped overseas telephone and telex messages is a particularly serious one. 
The Australian business community ought to be especially concerned about the commercial implications of this. 
If it is true that the CIA has access to all communications by telephone and telex between Australia and the rest of the world then the US agency has access to information of considerable commercial value. 
In view of the serious nature of these allegations that the CIA has been tapping telephone and telex messages from Australia and the fact that such information would be a grave intrusion, providing United States business interests with major advantages over Australian businessmen, will the Government cease doing nothing and establish a full investigation to ascertain the truth or otherwise of these allegations? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
Has the Government finalised the purchase of the Fawnmac pharmaceutical manufacturing company. If so, why did the Government allow the company to sharply increase its wholesale price of some fourteen items on 14 April 1977, the day after the Prime Minister stated that the price freeze was in operation. 
-Is the Minister for Social Security satisfied that where Aboriginal applicants are considered to be ineligible for unemployment benefit because of the application of the work test they are advised of their right to apply for special benefit if they have no other form of income or pension? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It arises out of the Press statement by the Prime Minister on 24 May 1977 entitled 'Allegations of CIA Activities in Australia '. The portion of the statement to which I refer is at the top of page 3. 1 quote: 
The Royal Commissioner on Security and Intelligence,  Mr Justice  Hope, who was appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in August 1974, has recently completed a most extensive series of investigations and reports on all aspects of Australian intelligence and security.  His  investigations included the activities of foreign intelligence services in Australia. There is nothing in the Royal Commissioner's reports which give any substance to the allegations relating to CIA activity which have occupied so much attention over the last 4 weeks. 
Were the original terms of reference for the inquiry into the intelligence and security services of the Australian Government such that they would enable  Mr Justice  Hope to investigate also foreign intelligence services in Australia? If not, I ask: When were the terms of reference extended to cover the activities of foreign intelligence services in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. No doubt he will recall that yesterday I asked a question seeking certain information in relation to the terms of reference of the royal commission into the Australian security and intelligence agencies. The Minister was good enough to undertake to obtain a reply. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. As the original terms of reference of the royal commission into the intelligence and security services of the Australian Government were confined to the Australian services and as the Minister himself said yesterday in reply to my question that the royal commission had stayed strictly within the original terms of reference, I ask: How could the Prime Minister say in his Press statement of 24 May 1977 entitled 'Allegations of CIA Activities in Australia' that the investigations of the royal commissioner,  Mr Justice  Hope, covered activities of foreign intelligence services in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I ask: Is it true that orders to cut 43 staff from the Community and Social Welfare Branch of her Department in Victoria are still proceeding despite the Minister's allocation of 96 additional staff, and that staff members' demotions and removals will be implemented on this coming Monday, 6 June? Is it true that staff have refused to be shifted until the position is clarified by the Director? Finally, is it a fact that this will overload staff, including welfare staff remaining in the Branch, who are already overloaded with demands for their services because of the existing inordinately high levels of unemployment? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. This morning I was approached in Kings Hall by some constituents from Victoria who are age pensioners in receipt of pensioner health benefit cards and concession cards for travel. Whilst I acknowledge that the concession card relates to travel on trams, trains and buses within Victoria, I was informed that until today it had been accepted for the purposes of public transport in Canberra. I ask: What instructions have been issued and by whom to deprive age pensioners of this former concession in Canberra? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. I understand that on 3 February 1976 the Government announced its intention to sell its 41.6 per cent interest in Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. I ask: Has the Government sold its interest? If so, how were the shares disposed of and who bought them? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
As the original terms of reference of the Royal Commission into the Intelligence and Security Services of the Australian Government were confined to the Australian Services and as the Minister for Administrative Services said on 3 1 May 1 977, in reply to a question asked by  Senator Brown,  that the Royal Commission stayed strictly within the original terms of reference, how could the Prime Minister say in his press statement on 24 May 1977 that the Royal Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Hope's, investigation included the activities of foreign intelligence services in Australia. 
I present the following petition from 276 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the delays between the announcements of each quarterly movement in the Consumer Price Index and their application as a percentage increase in age and invalid pensions is excessive, unnecessary, discriminatory and a cause of economic distress. 
That proposals to amend the Consumer Price Index by eliminating particular items from the Index could adversely affect the value of future increases in aged and invalid pensions and thus be a cause of additional economic hardship to pensioners. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Require each quarterly percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index to be applied to age and invalid and similar pensions as from the pension pay day nearest following the date of announcement of the CPI movement. 
Give an open assurance to all aged and invalid pensioners that any revision of the items comprising the Consumer Price Index will in no way result in reductions in the value of any future entitlements to pensioners. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I say at the outset that I appreciate and accept the undertaking given by the Minister to attempt to clarify the confusion that exists both inside and outside this Parliament in respect of the proposed tax indexation system. I refer the Minister to a document circulated yesterday by the Prime Minister's Press Secretary which contained an assertion that in 1978-79, $884m will be saved as a result of tax indexation. I ask the Minister to ascertain whether this figure is contained anywhere in the Budget Papers. If it is, will the Minister indicate where that figure may be found? I further ask: What are the assumptions which the Prime Minister used to guarantee the $884m? Finally, will the Minister also ascertain whether the Treasurer does in fact agree with that amount? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. As I understand the arrangements, the managing company for the exploration and mining of the Ranger uranium deposits is the Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd. According to a memorandum of understanding between the co-venturers dated 28 October 1975, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission would provide 7216 per cent of the capital required for the project and Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australia each would provide 13% per cent. I ask: Has the Government sold or does it intend to sell its 722 per cent interest in this project? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I direct his attention to page one of the Melbourne  Herald of  18 April 1977, which carried an article entitled 'Nuclear Dump Plan ' by Peter Costigan. Among other things he said: 
Australia, the US and Canada are considering a plan to make Australia the dumping ground for the western world 's nuclear wastes. 
By-product* of nuclear reactors-including plutonium a vital ingredient of nuclear bombs- would be stored in a remote area like  the  Gibson desert. 
He went on to say: 
Talks on the pact, which began last year, are well advanced.  i am told that  Mr Costigan  said he was absolutely certain of his information. Had he not been certain he would noi have written the article. Will the Minister tell the Senate whether this allegation is true or false? If it is not true, why has the Government not repudiated such an outrageous suggestion and thus laid to rest the understandable concern every Australian citizen is entitled to have at the frightening prospect of our country becoming a dumping ground ibr the Western world 's nuclear waste? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I think it is about a subject that would also encompass the responsibilities of the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I am sure that the Minister will agree with me when I say that the United States of America is recognised as being the world's leader in nuclear technology. However, notwithstanding the validity of that statement, I ask: Is the Minister aware of a 73-page report by a congressional sub-committee which reveals that the United States has been accumulating thousands of tons of nuclear waste for more than 30 years and that even if all nuclear activities were halted today there would be an immense problem in finding a permanent safe storage for all that accumulation? Congressman Ian Ryan, the  Chairman  of that sub-committee, went on to say: 
You have a staggering problem of both cost and environmental danger in regard to what to do with the temporarily stored, the nuclear waste much of which is in liquid form, you know like 74 million gallons of the stuff, which has a life of anywhere from 1,000 years to 250,000 years. 
How can the Prime Minister and the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development claim that safe methods of disposal and storage of nuclear waste materials are available in the light of that congressional report? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In answer to a question from  Senator McAuliffe  yesterday  Senator Cotton  referred to a highly qualified person upon whom and an organisation upon which he relied for his response to  Senator McAuliffe.  The organisation is W. D. 
Scott and Co. Pty Ltd and the person is  Mr Shrapnel.  Is  Mr Shrapnel  the Sydney business economist? If he is, is the Minister aware of a statement in the Melbourne  Herald  last nightthat is following the answer to  Senator McAuliffe  's question yesterday morningentitled '$A still too high: Forecaster sees 5 per cent cut'. The article reads as follows: 
The Australian dollar is still overvalued and will probably be devalued by another 5 per cent over the next six to nine months, according to Sydney business economist,  Mr Philip  Shrapnel. 

 Mr Shrapnel, in a briefing to clients for 1 977-78, said if the exchange rate was adjusted for changes in costs and prices, Australia was only about S per cent more competitive than before the November devaluation. 
This meant that the value of the dollar was still too high to secure import-competitive industries against imports and to generate employment, he said. 
What credence does the Minister place in the observations of this highly qualified person about the present value of the Australian dollar? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. As a result of the Budget cutbacks in Federal funds available for State hospital systems, is it true that at least in one State, namely the Minister's own State and mine, Victoria, home dialysis treatment for kidney disease sufferers is in jeopardy? 
As the cost to the community is approximately $ 1 8 a day to provide a patient with home dialysis treatment compared with a hospital admission minimum cost of $140 a day, should not the Government be channelling more, not less, funds into this economical method of health care? Is it not true that this Government changed the Labor Government's initiatives in this area which had involved full federal funding of home dialysis treatment? If so, can the Minister explain how reducing Federal Government spending on hospitals, which forces hospitals to cut back on such services, will save the community money? 
I think my question would be appropriately directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Federal Government taking an active interest in the inquiry being conducted by  Sir Gregory  Gowans, Q.C., into the several extraordinary land deals between the Victorian Housing Commission and other persons? If not, why not, having regard to the fact that a large proportion, if not the whole of the money which has changed hands, involving astronomical commissions to some individuals, would be money from Commonwealth Government grants to the State Government of Victoria for urgent public housing? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she has given any recent instructions to block the payment of special benefit for the seven day waiting period to workers stood down as a result of the Latrobe Valley dispute, even though those workers fulfil the hardship criteria laid down by the DirectorGeneral last year. If not, will she give urgent instructions through her Department that the special benefit is still payable according to the guidelines to those who would otherwise suffer hardship? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer the Minister to the letter in this morning's  West Australian  which suggests that following the consumer price index rise of 2 per cent for the September quarter the Government should not adopt a policy of full wage indexation. I ask the Minister: Did not the present Prime Ministerthe then caretaker Prime Minister- in the election campaign in 1975 give an unequivocal undertaking that his Government would maintain full wage indexation? If so, will the Government now revert to that promise? 
-I rise to oppose this Bill in this place in the limited time that has been made available to the Opposition. As a practitioner in the field of industrial affairs I propose to exercise every power that I have to oppose this legislation outside this chamber. I am probably one of the few members of this SenateI doubt whether there is anybody else- who is still practising in this field. I am  President  of the Victorian branch of the Federated Furnishings Trade Society of Australasia and also Federal Vice  President  of the Society. I make no apology for what I say. I join with my colleagues to protest at the contempt and complete disregard which has been shown for the normal forms and procedures of this Senate. Last evening a complex piece of legislation, some 28 pages, was introduced into the Senate. This morning a motion was moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  to apply the gag to this important debate. At 4.30 p.m. this afternoon, irrespective of what has been said or what is unsaid, this Bill will be bulldozed through the Senate. I remind the listening public that we have had a display of shabby double standards in this chamber today, which- is not peculiar to this chamber. 
I refer now to the misleading comment that was made by  Senator Wright  about a Bill to amend the Trade Practices Act. I do not say his conduct was shabby.  Senator Wright  said that this Bill lay on the table for six or seven months or thereabout. In order to tell the Senate what  Senator Wright  did not say, I quote from page 2217 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 20 October 1977, from a speech made by the shadow Minister,  Mr Willis: 
The amendments to the Trade Practices Act, which were extraordinarily complex and which were amended time after time, were finally passed through this House. When I rose to speak on the part of that Bill dealing with industrial relations I was faced with 12 pages of amendments handed to me across the table, amongst which were details of amendments affecting the industrial relations section of the Trade Practices Act. 
That is even worse than what we have experienced today with this Bill. I turn now to the remarks of  Senator Walters.  I think we reached an all time low when, by snide innuendo,  Senator Walters  suggested that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions was feigning sickness at some given time. I repeat that we have reached a pretty low standard.  Senator Walters  also mentioned the maritime unions. I remind the Senate that in 1968, nine years ago, the Senate saw fit to establish a select committee on the securities and exchange industry.  Senator Rae  was one of the chairmen of that committee and presented its report to the Senate. After its investigations that committee unanimously recommended, which means that it had the support of both government and opposition members on the committee, that the Government take urgent legislative action to regulate the industry to outlaw the malpractices, bordering on corruption in that industry. Those malpractices, that corruption cost not only big but also small investors, who have never had any opportunity to recoup their losses, millions of dollars. Yet nine years later, have we ever seen even a draft Bill or a statement of intent to introduce a Bill to regulate those malpractices? This is clear evidence of the shabby double standards in which the Government indulged. I turn briefly to that part of the second reading speech to which  Senator Tehan  referred. It points up and fortifies what I have said before about the Government's double standards. It appears at page 4 of the second reading speech of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I think the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  reiterated it in this place. It states: 
One of the fundamental tenets of the Government 's industrial relations policy is that each member of the community has both rights and obligations: Those rights must be protected and the obligations must be met. 
It is true that people have rights and people have obligations. People employed in industry have a right to expect and in fact to receive the appropriate rates of pay applicable to the classification of work that they perform. They also have a right to enjoy those physical conditions of employment which accompany rates of pay in their industry in respect of hours of work, overtime payments, penalty rates, annual leave, sick leave, et cetera. I concede that they have that perfect right. What they expect to have by way of right in respect of the payment of wages, rates of pay and physical conditions of employment are those standards which have been achieved by people who associate in an organisation of employees. Opposition members would be the last to say that they are not entitled to those rights, but we also believe they have an obligation to make their contribution towards securing and sustaining those rates of pay and conditions of work. 
The mere fact that they have been won does not mean that the employees will always have them unless they are prepared to take a position to protect them. We believe that they are entitled to make a contribution to preserve what they are enjoying and likewise to contribute to the ever increasing and on-going work to ensure that the standards are maintained consistent with relative standards within the community. It is fair and reasonable to say that there are rights and obligations. Certain clauses of this amending Bill provide an opportunity for people to avoid their obligations. I am not talking about people who have a genuine conscientous objection to contributing to union funds. Believe it or not, I have been associated with the union movement now since 1935. 1 do not speak as one on the outside. I speak with personal experience as a shop steward, an organiser, and a State and Federal secretary. I have always found that a person who has a genuine conscientious belief which prevents him from joining an organisation of employees is prepared to say: 'I cannot join the union because . . . but I wish to make a subscription to charity equal to the union contribution'. We have no quarrel with that, but this legislation purports to enable any person to be a freeloader. 
-We will talk about free persons in a moment. The legislation will enable a person to be a freeloader who may enjoy all the hard won conditions and rates of pay but never contribute towards them. Of what value to a union, which may be the only organisation that can represent an employee in an industry before both State and federal industrial courts, is a contribution to some charitable organisation? 
-He is a freeloader. If honourable senators opposite are so concerned about the freedom of the individual, I ask them to hark back a few years and think about what happened during the period from 1965 to 1972. Youngsters, 20-year-olds, who were deprived of a vote - 
-It is all right for you to say Oh, God',  Senator Tehan.  You were not one of them. 
I heard you say it distinctly. What I am saying is that this Bill again points up the Government's double standards. It conscripted youths into the armed services against their wishes. It was not concerned about their rights or freedoms. In fact, when they had the temerity or audacity to stand up for what they believed to be their right, the Government pursued them relentlessly as if they were common criminals until such time as it was able to apprehend them and gaol them as common criminals. What double standards the Government has. 
I was invited to speak on Sunday night to a meeting in Albury organised by the Young Labor Association. The meeting was attended by representatives from both sides of the border and non-members of the Australian Labor Party. Among other things, I referred to the imminent announcement of a general election this side of Christmas. I said: 
From now until then we can expect further provocative and inflammatory statements by the Prime Minister and his stalking horses (chiefly Sinclair and Anthony) and further repressive legislation bulldozed through Parliament. 
That was said on Sunday night, and four days later what happened? Do not think for a moment that I claim to be a seer or a clairvoyant. I do not have to be. I went back through the record and tabulated it for the purpose of this meeting. In November last year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  did his best to buy into a dispute in Victoria over the Newport power station. Subsequently,  on more  than one occasion he attempted to intrude into a matter which was peculiar to Victoria only, namely, the tanker drivers dispute. In April this year he pushed through legislation creating the Industrial Relations Bureau. This is known to be a pet project of the Prime Minister. As he has said all along, the object was to smash so-called militant unions. In May this year it appeared that he would attempt to take advantage of the air traffic controllers strike, and the Government prepared emergency legislation. That legislation was not introduced before the strike was completed or the Parliament could be recalled. Let us have an understanding about whether that legislation, had it been law at the time, could have been invoked. If honourable senators opposite are prepared to be objective about this, they will realise as well as I do that there was no way in the world that the powers of that emergency legislation which was subsequently introduced could have been applied to the air traffic controllers strike for the simple reason that nobody in this country has the skills required to control air traffic at civilian airports. Not only was it repressive legislation, but also was it quite selective. Of course in August it was introduced into the Parliament. 
The time allotted for consideration of this important legislation is limited, but I want to say more before I finish. Today's Melbourne  Sun  reports a meeting of the Municipal Officers Association and a statement by its industrial officer,  Mr Ken  Minster, that if the State Electricity Commission sacked strikers or employed outside labour MOA men would strike after securing the plant. In other words, notwithstanding the fact that the Victorian Government has revived the 1948 Essential Services Act with all its powers that go far beyond any other piece of legislation bar probably the Atomic Energy Act 1953-1973, and notwithstanding the repressive, excessive powers contained in the Essential Services Act, other workers in the Latrobe Valley are prepared to say that if certain things happen they will join the SEC maintenance workers in the Latrobe Valley. I cite that matter for one reason. One thing is consistent about conservatives. Of course honourable senators opposite are conservatives. Conservatives can never appreciate the important lessons to be learned from history. The most significant lesson appropriate to this legislation is that the more repressive the law, the greater the resistance. As it has been in the past, so it will be again. 
There has never been any piece of legislation in respect of pains and penalties which could ever be held to have in fact settled an industrial dispute. If anything, such legislation has precisely the opposite effect. What it does do- thank goodness for this-is to galvanise what might be divided people within the work force and the trade union movement into one force. Those people have a philosophy of mateship which h onourable senators opposite would not understand. It is as simple as this: A hurt to one is a hurt to all. One thing I am sure will happen, as sure as day follows night, is that if there is ever an attempt to introduce any of these repressive measures against any individual, group of individuals or officers of unions we will find again happening in 1 977 or whatever year it may be, precisely what we saw happen in 1968 when the present Governor-General, then the presiding officer of the Industrial Court gaoled one trade union officer. 
Let me relate briefly a matter from my own experience. I was invited to speak at a meeting of unionists at the Morwell oval in the Latrobe Valley. About 5,000 workers were there. The gentleman who presided at that meeting- he was 100 per cent solid in support of the action of the trade union movement- was a member of the Electrical Trades Union. He was known to be not only a supporter but also a member of the Democratic Labor Party. So, it could be said that while we may have been diametrically opposed politically, on an issue such as this we were one. As it was then, I repeat: So it will be in the future. 
This Bill, as I see it, is nothing more nor less than a continuation of a scenario that was commenced some two years ago to attempt to justify the need for a general election before time. It is a recipe, regrettably, for industrial disputation and confrontation that this country has never witnessed before. I am reasonably confident that the Federal Government along with the Government in Victoria- the Federal Government cannot be said to be sensible or it would never have entertained the idea of introducing such legislationwould not be stupid enough to attempt to implement this legislation in terms of the law and to apply it to the field of industrial relations. 
In directing a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, I refer to the minute of the Department of Foreign Affairs, made public yesterday, of discussions held between  Mr Justice  Fox and Foreign Affairs officials on 29 September. In view of the two facts that  Mr Justice  Fox has reported, namely, that there is general opposition overseas to the United States and Canadian propositions that there could be no reprocessing of uranium supplied by those countries without the specific approval of supplier countries and that there is concern overseas that the International Atomic Energy Agency may not be able to administer nuclear safeguards satisfactorily, how does the Australian Government intend to maintain the fictional assurances given to the Australian people that Australian safeguards will be met completely by overseas takers of our uranium exports? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National  Resources  upon notice, on 3 November 1977: 
How will the Australian Government ensure that Aus.tralian safeguards will be completely met by overseas takers of our uranium exports, in view of  Mr Justice  Fox's report of 29 September 1977, recorded in a Foreign Affairs Departmental minute made public on 2 November 1977, that: (a) there is general opposition overseas to the United States and Canadian proposition that there could be no reprocessing of uranium supplied by these countries without the specific approval of supplier countries; and (b) there is concern overseas that the International Atomic Energy Agency may not be able to administer safeguards satisfactorily. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: What duties of investigating officers in her Department will be temporarily deferred while the officers are engaged in their mission to cut down the numbers of people receiving the unemployment benefit? Further, what effect does the Minister think this disruption will have on pension and benefit claims and appeals? 
-Does the Minister for Social Security recall saying in answer to a question by me on Thursday, 23 February, that the concentration of field officers on unemployment benefit eligibility would have no effect on appeals conducted through the Social Security Appeals Tribunals? Is it not a fact that pan of the field officers' functions is to get evidence and facts for appeals to the Tribunals? If so, who will be doing this work while the present investigations continue? 
-I support the Opposition's amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time. I do not propose to traverse the same ground as that covered by my colleagues, but it would be appropriate to point out that the amendment states:   . . the Senate deplores the actions of the Government: 
in not having a medium or long term economic strategy, including a viable manufacturing policy upon which to base general and consistent guidelines necessary for, among other things, the proper functioning of the Industries Assistance Commission; 
I believe that that is a statement of fact, and it is one that I find capable of being supported completely. Paragraph (b) of the amendment states:  in threatening the basic independence of the Industries Assistance Commission, by its emphasis upon narrow and variable  guidelines,  and by its consistent failure to appreciate the advisory role intended for the Industries Assistance Commission. 
In regard to the second part of the amendment, I recall vividly that prior to the last Federal election the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made very critical public statements about Industries Assistance Commission reports that had been presented from time to time. I do not think that anybody, even honourable senators opposite, would disagree with that comment. 
I do not quarrel with some clauses in the amending Bill. For instance, the amendment to section 22 of the principal Act deals with policy guidelines for the Commission and amends the original legislation, namely, the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973. From my point of view, at least the first part of the amendment to section 22 is an improvement to the Act. I quote the relevant clause: 
Section 22 ofthe Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) and substituting the following paragraphs: 
achieve sustained growth in the Australian economy through balanced development of Australian industries with a view to providing increased opportunities for employment and investment; 
Certainly I could not quarrel with that. It continues:  (aa) improve the efficiency with which the community's productive resources are used, while ensuring that any measures to achieve changes in the structure of industry are taken only after having due regard - 
I emphasise those words: 
. to the capacity of the economy to sustain those changes and to absorb any members of the workforce displaced by those changes; 
I would be less than honest if I did not say that I believe those are commendable amendments to the principal Act. However, I am concerned when further in the Bill I read proposed new subsection (3) of section 22, which states: 
The Minister may, by notice in writing to the Commission, give directions as to the priorities - 
Again, I emphasise those words: 
. to be observed by the Commission in having regard to the matters mentioned in sub-section ( 1 ) or contained in any notice under sub-section (2) and the Commission shall comply with any such directions. 
Surely that must impinge upon the independence of the Commission. The language that is usedshall comply with such directions'- obviously must impinge upon the independence of the Commission. I wish to concentrate my attention on clause 10, which states: 
After section 23 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 23A. Where the Minister has referred to the Commission for inquiry and report any matter relating to the giving, continuance or withdrawal of assistance to an industry or to a particular group or groups of primary or secondary industries, the Commission, in its report on that matter- 
shall report on the level of assistance required to ensure that the level of activity and employment in the industry or group or groups of industries to which the report relates is not less than that which existed at the time when the  reference  was made; 
I have looked closely at this matter. I believe that either it will be impossible for the Commission so to report or, if the Commission can find ways and means to report in accordance with the direction, it will be disastrous for one industry of which I can speak from first-hand knowledge. Approximately 18 months ago the Australian furnishing trades industry was referred to the Industries Assistance Commission for inquiry and report. I have been involved with the industry for about 40 years, and I am presently the State  President  of the Victorian branch of the Federated Furnishing Trade Society of Australasia and Federal Vice  President  of the Society. This matter has been of concern to the union over a long period, and we have had reasonably good co-operation and consultation with the employer organisations. We made a submission to the Commission in about April last year and, as a consequence of the additional reference to the IAC by the then Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Howard,  of the footwear, textile and clothing industries, we made an approach along similar lines and requested an extension of the reference made in respect of the furniture industry. We asked that particular attention be given to the social consequences of any alteration to the level of tariff assistance that the industry might be enjoying at the time.  Mr Howard  replied along the lines that he felt it would be appropriate for the industry itself to take the initiative and carry out an impact study so that detailed information could be placed before the Commission which would be of advantage to it in determining the form of its final report. 
I will be relying heavily upon a document entitled 'Furnishing Industry Workforce: Its Future in a Changing Economic Environment ', which is a submission made to the Australian Government and the Industries Assistance Commission in March this year by  Mr K.  F. Carr for the Federated Furnishing Trade Society of Australasia. The document is the result of" an extensive survey carried out across five States of the Commonwealth. Some 90 factories were surveyed and 1,368 members of our organisation were interviewed. Among other things, the data provided relates to age, sex, country of origin, language skills, educational levels, qualifications, experience in other industries, longevity in the furniture industry, and intra-industry mobility. 
The consequence of this work has been illuminating to ourselves and to the employer organisations which have been associated with us in it. We learnt more about our industry as a result of the basic information which was derived from the survey. Interestingly enough, the information we were able to compile, when compared with figures of the furnishing industry work force taken from the 1971 census and reproduced in the Industries Assistance Commission Annual Report 1974-75 at page 60, indicates that our survey sample which was taken from a crosssection of the national work force was accurate despite the fact that it did not include any respondents from Western Australia. 
I earlier indicated that I was concerned about clause 10 which proposes a new section 23a. I quote from the document. At page seven, paragraph 1.22 entitled 'Characteristics of Tradesmen in the Furnishing Industry', states: 
More than 70 per cent of workers in the furnishing industry are employed as tradesmen, nearly 52 per cent of these having served a formal apprenticeship in one of four highly specialised trades- upholstery, wood machining, French polishing and cabinet making. 
I shall dwell for a moment on that matter and quote from a paper entitled 'Structural Change in Australia'. It was prepared by the Industries Assistance Commission in Canberra and is dated June 1977. The reference is found at page 48 under a section entitled 'Adjustment to Change '. It highlights the problems we see. In fact, our survey accords with an observation made in this paper. It states: 
Difficulties in the process of adjustment to change are found most frequently when change happens very rapidly, or when the economic activity subject to change has a very specialised process of production, or is a large employer in a particular region. Production may be specialised in terms of machinery and equipment, or in terms of the skills it requires from its labour force, none of which may be readily transferable to other activities. In such cases adjustment by employees to declining fortunes in that industry would necessitate retraining, probable short term loss of earnings, and possible removal to another region to find a new job. 
The Commission rounds off that section by stating: 
A first step in assessing the likelihood and significance of such adjustment problems involves an examination of the adaptability of labour and capital in the economy by referring to their observed capacity to adjust to change. 
It so happens that the furnishing industry is experiencing precisely what the Industries Assistance Commission observes in this paper; that is that the production of furniture is highly specialised in both machinery and equipment and in the skills it requires from its work force. As a consequence it is found that employees of the furnishing industry are not readily transferable. There is a certain mobility intra-industry but, as can be shown from the other facts and information provided in this document, employees would have great difficulty in relation to interindustry mobility. I turn to page 24 of the submission which deals basically with the level of imports as they affect the industry to which I am referring. Paragraph 4.6 refers to a table 2 1 which shows that imports increased by 703 per cent between 1971-72 and 1976-77. and by 63 per cent between 1975-76 and 1976-77. The table shows the imports of furniture and parts, bedding, mattresses, mattress supports, cushions and similar stuffed furnishings. In 1971-72 the value of those imports amounted to $686,000. In 1972- 73 the value was $8,640,000; in 1973-74, $18,942,000; in 1974-75, $24,413,000; in 1975-76, $32,787,000 and in 1976-77, $53,623,000. The last figure is a preliminary figure. It is significant that since the rise of 1 1 8 per cent in imports between 1972-73 and 1973- 74 the value of imports has risen each year by a progressively increasing percentage. The submission states: 
We are particularly concerned by the alarming rate of increase during the last financial year, given the enormous value of the goods involved. There is no evidence to suggest that this upward trend will abate, given present tariff levels. 
That is the point I come back to in relation to the clause to which I referred earlier. I shall deal with the substantial increase in imports in recent years affecting the furnishing industry. Paragraph 4.9 of the submission refers to effective tariff rates as they affect this industry. It states: 
In its Annual Report 1969-1970, the Tariff Board defined low cost' production as that requiring effective protection of 25 percent. 
That reference is taken from the Tariff Board 's annual report of 1969-70; chapter 2, page 6. The paragraph continues: 
According to the IAC 's Annual Report 1 976- 1 977, the average effective rate of assistance to the furniture industry in 1973-74 was 23 per cent, placing it below the upper limit set by the TariffBoard. 
That was set in 1969-70. Paragraph 4. 10 states: 
Furthermore, the rate of assistance to the industry has fallen substantially over recent years from an average effective rate of 4 1 per cent in 1 973-74. This represents a fall of 44 per cent in assistance rates between 1968-69 and 1973-74. Table 22 
I shall be asking for leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard-  compares  this change in assistance rates to the furniture industry with those experienced by the other nine industries included in the IAC's list of the 10 most profitable manufacturing industries for the period 1973-74 as shown in their Annual Report 1976-77. 
Table 22 shows the other industries and the effective tariff rate of assistance with the changes made during those years. I ask for leave to have that table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="076232197803086_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank honourable senators. Two things have been proven; firstly, the substantial increase in imports over recent years and, secondly, the effective tariff rate for the industry at the moment. A criticism was made. We have been concerned by some utterences- I think this is fair comment- or comments which were made by the Commissioners inquiring into our industry. They seemed to be concerned about what they described as the fragmented state of the industry in Australia and asked us how it compared with the industry in other parts of the world. We were fortunate enough recently to obtain information from a Furniture Industry Research Association paper,  The Furniture Industry in Western Europe: A Statistical Digest, 1977.  It shows that the structure of the furnishing industry is similar in all Western industralised countries, irrespective of government policy and population; that this is a result of the nature of the market, which calls for not only a wide variety of articles but also a wide variety of styles of articles. Rather than weary the Senate with the details, I seek leave to incorporate the tables shown on page 27 of the submission to the IAC. That clearly establishes that the Australian furniture industry is identical in nature to its counterpart in highly industralised, Western Europe. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  What is the nature of the document that the honourable senator wishes to incorporate? Are there any diagrams? 
-No, just tables. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="076232197803086_41_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="076232197803086_42_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. I should like to make one or two additional references. On page 28 the same document, at paragraph 4. 1 6, reads: 
The indexed growth rate of the furnishing industry (excluding sheet metal) increased from a base of 100 in 1 970-72 to 1 7 1 . 5 in 1 974-75. This compares favourably with the average growth rate for all manufacturing industries, which rose from 100 in 1971-72 to 157.1 in 1974-75. 
The basis for that information is to be found in the IAC publication  Furniture Statistical Handbook,  February 1977, table 26, at page 54. The statement reads further: 
More recent figures show that despite the poor growth rate throughout the manufacturing industry sector, the increased growth rate for furniture manufacturing, as of July 1 977 was still 27 points higher than the average, ranking second among durable goods and sixth among all manufacturing groups, including fuel and power. 
That information is from the ANZ Bank's Business Indicators, December 1977, at page 4, under the title, 'ANZ Bank Index of Quantity of Factory Production, (1963-64=100).' Let me refer briefly to the future prospects of the industry, as described in paragraph 4.1 7: 
The steady increase in demand for furniture in Australia can be demonstrated by the fact that the value of furniture supplied to the Australian market rose from$295m to $497.5m between 1971-72 and 1974-75. 
As the IAC has pointed out, we can assume that, despite declining levels of fertility, which will result in a slowing down in the rate of population growth in Australia, the overall demand for furniture will continue to expand relative to demand in other areas such as food, clothing, fuel and medical care. That reference is to be found in the IAC publication  Structural Change and Economic Interdependence,  July 1 977 at page 34. 
I have related that information to honourable senators to point out that despite the astronomical increase in the levels of furniture imports, despite the very low effective rate of tariff, despite the comparative relationship between our industry and the highly-industralised countries in Western Europe, despite our obvious degree of efficiency based on the index to which I referred to earlier, if proposed new section 23A were to be followed to the letter and, in fact, the level of protection, the effective tariff, that we are currently enjoying is to be maintained such as 'to ensure that the level of activity and employment in the industry or group or groups of industries to which the report relates is not less than that which exists at the time when the reference was made', it would be disastrous. I can say that from firsthand knowledge. 
Speaking as State  President  of the Victorian Branch of the union, I say that in the last 18 months we have lost just on 2,000 members. Last night I chaired a meeting of the Victorian Branch Committee of Management, to which reports were being made by organisers working in the field daily, week in and week out, visiting factories. I am not prepared to mention the names of the factories because that may be prejudicial to their business interests and to the future employment of our members, but it was distressing to hear the reports concerning our biggest manufacturer in Victoria and by and large- in terms of hard furniture- our biggest also in Australia. These factories have in the last six months reduced their staffs by 66 per cent. 
I repeat, as I understand it, if the proposed new sub-section were to be followed that would prove disastrous. I cited earlier the continuing level of imports from page 24 of the submission. Their value rose by 703 per cent between 1972 and 1 977, a period of live years, but in the last 12 months alone the increase has been 63 per cent. Honourable senators will appreciate the volume of furniture that can be purchased in South East Asia for the sum of $53m. One cannot equate that with an equivalent number of pieces of furniture purchased in Australia, based on our cost structure. Therefore, apart from the criticisms that my colleagues have levelled at the Government on the basis of this amendment, I am asking that this section in particular also be examined closely. 
Earlier I heard  Senator Thomas  speak about the need to replace our aid to Malaysia, to involve ourselves in greater trade with that country. I acknowledge that there must be a degree of reciprocity of trade between nations, but I happened to visit Malaysia as late as March and April of last year. I was in Singapore at about the same time and in March attended a conference of the Building and Woodworkers International. I was able there to see some of the working conditions in one of their big plants up near Kuantan on the south east coast, and observed little girls working there. I was told that they had to be more than 16 years of age to work in the plant, but they received something like $A10 for 40 hours work. It is just not possible for us to compete under those conditions. 
I went through Metrowood, a furniture factory in Singapore- and I am reminded of the question of false advertising that was raised by  Senator Gietzelt,  which I shall not discuss at the moment- and learned that the plant was manufacturing piece parts for assembly in Australia by an organisation known as Campaign Furniture of Sydney. In the polishing shop, where tile work of staining and filling is pretty dirty, young girls were employed at approximately $A10 for 40 hours work. Our girls would, by comparison, receive at least $A10 for four hours work. I am reminded of the first submission that my colleague made, if I might just quote this in conclusion. 
Time will not permit my going into that now. In rounding off our submission to the Commission in Sydney, in April last, we said: 
We do not argue with the generalisation that competition is healthy and operates to eliminate inefficiences in production and marketing, but this is a generalisation and the context in which we all accept it is that competition takes place on approximately equal terms. 
I am satisfied that we are as efficient in terms of production per unit of labour, but in no way in the world could it be said that we are as efficient in terms of the actual costs of labour. We also have to take into account some of the advantages the employers enjoy, particularly in places like Singapore and Malaysia. I am not critical of the governments of those two countries which, in endeavouring to attract industries to their countries to provide employment for their work forces are prepared to grant tax free holidays for a period of years of operation and concessions in respect of electrical energy tariffs and so on. I am not critical of that, but it certainly does not allow for comparative equality in competition- and that is what we are talking about. The matter I have concentrated on specifically points out that if it were to be followed to the letter in respect of the industry with which I am closely associated and which I know intimately then it would be disastrous for that industry, let alone what might happen to other industries. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Before I call  Senator Archer  I remind honourable senators that it is customary for honourable senators entering or leaving the chamber to pay their respects to the Chair. I am not seeking this courtesy for myself but for the person for whom I am deputising, the  President  of the Senate. I will not name people but I have seen honourable senators enter and leave the chamber without paying that respect. I leave it to their own discretion to comply with what is required under the rules and Standing Orders of this chamber. I call  Senator Archer. 
-by leave- On behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, I present a report on the reference relating to the introduction of a national superannuation scheme. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator BROWN(Victoria)-by leave-I have the honour to present to the Senate, on behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, a brief formal report on the reference relating to the introduction of a national superannuation scheme. This reference was originally given to the former Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, of which I was a member, on 7 April 1971 and remained in abeyance awaiting the report of the National Superannuation Committee of Inquiry under the chairmanship of Professor Keith Hancock 
The majority and minority reports resulting from that Inquiry recommended two basically differing schemes. These have been referred to the Government's advisers for examination. The Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare believes that further inquiry at this stage would merely duplicate the work already done by the Committee of Inquiry. Therefore, we have decided not to proceed with the reference. 
-The Labor Party supports this Bill which is designed to provide for the payment of a bounty on the production of certain polyester-cotton yarn. I think it is important at this stage to indicate- as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  indicated in his second reading speech- that this Bill emanates from advice following an inquiry by the Industries Assistance Commission. The relevant report is report No. 138 of 19 July 1977 which deals with certain spun yarns and wool textiles and other goods. The second reading speech states:  . . it has been decided to accord assistance by way of a bounty scheme providing for payment to Australian manufacturers of a bounty of Si. 15 per kilogram on yarn consisting of a mixture of polyester and cotton fibres, in which the polyester fibres are not less than SO per cent by weight, being single-fold combed yarn not coarser than 20 tex with at least one ply of 10 tex or coarser. 
The Opposition welcomes this Bill because it will provide, as indicated, at least short term assistance to a section of Australian industry experiencing some disadvantage from imports of this commodity. 
I think it is important that I should bring to the notice of the Senate the fact that this report emanates from a reference forwarded to the IAC by the Minister. The document presented is entitled: Industries Assistance Commission Report- Certain Spun Yarns and Wool Textiles and Other Goods'. It clearly indicates that this reference was given to the IAC in accordance with the appropriate section- section 23 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973- on 5 May and 24 May. According to my calculation, approximately ten months have passed since then and the Bill is now being debated in the Senate. It took only two months for the IAC to present its report. I think the Commission is entitled to be complimented on the expeditious manner in which it completed its inquiry and presented its report and recommendations to the Minister. However, I repeat that about ten months have passed since this reference was given to the IAC. Eight months elapsed between the presentation of the report and the preparation of the legislation. As I understand the situation, five months will elapse between the introduction of the Bill and the date it will come into operation. Clause 2 of the Bill, which refers to the commencement of the payment of the bounty, states: 
This Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on 1 October 1977. 
The difference between the date of the proposed operation of the bounty and the debate this evening is approximately five months. I emphasise that point because there are clauses of the Bill with which we do not agree. Whilst we are supporting the Bill, for obvious reasons, we are concerned about a number of anomalies. We trust that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  who is responsible for the Bill in this place, will be courteous enough to answer questions raised- I am sure he will- because a number of matters concern us. At page 20 of the IAC's report it states: 
There are two local producers with the equipment necessary to produce fine count combed yarns of cotton or polyester/cotton, namely Bradmill and Bond's Spinning. Bradmill 's capacity in this field is restricted to one of its mills only, at Kotara, NSW. Bond 's Spinning stated that the company could not produce polyester/cotton yarn without modifying its plant layout and air conditioning system. 
When the Minister is responding to this debate I ask him to indicate whether this means, in effect, that there is only one manufacturer currently producing this product which attracts the bounty. I ask that question because I will be referring in due course to clauses of the Bill which enable the Minister to exclude persons. Clause 12 (5) states: 
Where an applicant under this section was not, on 1 October 1977, engaged in the spinning of bountiable yarn at the premises to which the application relates - 
This refers to registration of premises- the Minister shall refuse to register those premises unless, in the opinion of the Minister, the registration of those premises will promote the orderly development of the production of bountiable yarn in Australia. 
I refer again to the IAC report. The comments on page 20 seem to indicate that at this stage there is only one manufacturer producing the product which will attract the bounty. We find it difficult to understand why the Minister would be charged with power to refuse an application for registration for the bounty from a company which complied with the conditions for the bounty other than that it was not 'engaged in the spinning of bountiable yarn at the premises to which the application relates', and was not so engaged on 1 October 1 977. That certainly does appear to be an anomaly. On page 22 of the report the Commission gives its reasons for its recommendations. It states: 
The Commission considers that a more suitable form of short term assistance pending consideration of the long term issues involved would be to provide a bountry at a rate broadly equivalent to the local producer's price disability per kilogram. 
I repeat: We believe that is commendable. The report continues: 
Assistance in this form would meet the present needs of the industry more quickly and would limit the level of assistance to the volume of production it could reasonably be expected to achieve. It would also avoid the high costs to users and consumers associated with the use of tariff quotas or an additional duty on imported yarns. 
That reasoning of the Commission in its recommendations to the Minister appears to us to indicate that the recommendations are designed to meet the present needs of the industry more quickly than some other technique which might otherwise be imposed. The Commission went on to state in its report: 
The Commission will recommend -  of course, it has recommended-  that a bounty be payable on the production of single fold combed, fine count (20 tex or finer) polyester/cotton yarn of a kind which if imported would be classifiable to item 56.05.9. 
That simply describes the particular product which will be bountiable. The report continues: 
It is proposed that the bounty be payable at the rate of $1.15 per kilogram on yarn produced on or after the announcement by the Government of its acceptance of these recommendations, but that the annual amount payable be limited to $600,000. The bounty should continue to apply until a decision is made on the Commission 's recommendations on long term assistance to the industry. 
I understand that that decision is likely to be made within the next 12 months. Even that recommendation raises questions in our minds. The Bill states that it is designed to do the following: 
To provide for the payment of a bounty on the production of certain polyester-cotton yarn. 
Clause 7 of the Bill states: 
The rate at which bounty is payable in respect of bountiable yarn is $ 1 . 1 5 per kilogram of the weight of the yarn. 
One could be forgiven for believing that in fact $1.15 per kilogram would be the bounty payment. But the recommendation of the Commission has two parts. It refers firstly to 'yarn produced on or after the announcement by the Government of its acceptance of these recommendations'. I presume that that would refer to the date of implementation of this legislation. The recommendation states secondly that 'that annual amount payable be limited to $600,000'. In my view, the Government could act on the recommendation in two ways. It could make provision for a payment at a rate of less than $1.15 per kilogram or it could exclude manufacturers of this bountiable product from an entitlement to that bounty. The report continues on page 23: 
The bounty is intended to allow the local industry in the short term to compete on reasonable terms with imports of combed fine count polyester/cotton yarn and should result in improved levels of activity and employment. 
The reference to 'improved levels of activity' and employment' are commendable. It would appear that that would accord with provisions of the Bill to amend the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973, which passed through the Parliament last week and received royal assent this week. I refer specifically to clause 8 of that Bill, which amended section 22 of the principal Act by providing the Commission with guidelines indicating that it should have regard to increased opportunities for employment and investment. This statement by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report seems to be consistent with that philosophy. However, that paragraph from the Commission's report which I just quoted has limitations. The Government may provide for a lesser amount than $1.15 per kilogram to be payable and have application only to those producers of this bountiable commodity on or after the announcement by the Government of its acceptance of the IAC recommendations. It is difficult to believe that the suggested improved levels of activity and employment would be possible under those circumstances. It is true that I cannot claim to have the expertise of a constitutional lawyer, although I did spend many years on the bench as a cabinet maker. Section 51 (iii) of Part V of the Constitution refers to: 
Bounties on the production or export of goods, but so that such bounties shall be uniform throughout the Commonwealth: 
Among other things that describes the powers of this national Parliament. I find it difficult to believe that the Bounty (Polyester-Cotton Yarn) Bill accords with the intention and the principles contained in that section of the Constitution. 
-That is the point I raise. It seems to me that a bounty in many respects is not dissimilar to a subsidy- for example, the superphosphate subsidy. I understand that I do not even have to prove that I am a primary producer to gain the advantage of the superphosphate bounty; I can do that simply by purchasing superphosphate. 
For whatever purpose I might wish. I might happen to be a market gardener in the domestic sense. But quite seriously, the point I am making is this: To derive the advantage of the superphosphate bounty one does not have to prove that one is a primary producer. In the Bill first of all one has to prove that one is a producer of this particular bountiable yarn, but one can be excluded from the payment of the bounty by a decision of the Ministeraccording to the way in which the Bill is framed- or, alternatively, even if one is accepted as a manufacturer of a bountiable product in accordance with the description of this Bill one might receive an amount less than the amount prescribed in clause 7 of the Bill. That clause states: 
The rate at which bounty is payable in respect of bountiable yarn is $ 1 . 1 5 per kilogram of the weight of the yarn. 
These are some of the questions and the anomalies which we believe invite- in fact, demand- clarification by the Minister. I repeat that I am sure he will pay us that courtesy. Clause 4 of the Bill prescribes the period to which the legislation applies. It states: 
For the purposes of this Act, each of the following periods is a period to which this Act applies: 
the period of 12 months commencing on 1 October 1977; 
the period of 12 months commencing on 1 October 1978; and 
the period of 1 1 months commencing on 1 October 1979. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Prior to the adjournment of the Senate last evening we were debating the Bounty (Polyester-Cotton Yarn) Bill 1978. In the course of my remarks I had stated my Party's view on this Bill, namely, that we were not proposing to oppose the Bill but that we did have some reservations about whether the Bill in fact would achieve the desired result and intention as described in the Industries Assistance Commission report. We are mindful of the fact that the IAC is purely an advisory body to the Government. Nevertheless, we have grave doubts as to whether the Bill will achieve the desired effect. That was to ensure the provision of a bounty at a rate broadly equivalent to the local producers price disability per kilogram. As the Industries Assistance Commission indicated, that would enable the local industry in the  short term to compete on reasonable terms with imports of fine count polyester-cotton yarn and it should result in improved levels of activity in employment. I raised a number of matters last evening to which I am sure the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  will respond in due course. When the adjournemnt of the debate was reached last evening I had stated the period for which the Act would apply. I refer to clause 7 of the Bill which states: 
The rate at which bounty is payable in respect of bountiable yarn is $ 1 .  1 5 per kilogram of the weight of the yarn. 
Regrettably this clause may well conflict with clause 8, sub-clauses (2) and (3). Among other things clause 8 describes the amount of money which will be available and the limit of the available bounty. Sub-clause (2) states: 
Where the amount available for the payment  of  bounty in respect of bountiable yarn in respect of which bounty becomes payable in a period to which this Act applies is insufficient for the payment in full of all valid claims in respect of that bountiable yarn, the bounty otherwise payable in respect of each of those claims shall be reduced to an amount that bears the same proportion to the amount of the claim as the amount so available bears to the total amount of all those claims. 
That simply means that if insufficient moneys are available for valid claims there will have to be what I suppose one can describe as a pro rata payment which obviously would be less than the amount described in clause 7, namely, $1.15 per kilogram of the weight of the yarn. That certainly causes us some concern. I repeat that that does not meet with the object of the provision of the bounty to provide a bountry rate broadly equivalent to the local producers price disability per kilogram. If that were the case, then the intention of the recommendation would not be realised because the local industry would not secure that level of support necessary to guarantee it and to ensure improved levels of activity in employment. I am sure this is something which will concern the Government. We are concerned also about a provision in clause 22. Whilst we agree with and commend the Government for the inclusion of clause 22, the Minister in his second reading speech stated: 
Clause 22 of the Bill continues the Government's policy of expanding, wherever possible, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decisions which affect rights or entitlements of persons under Commonwealth legislation. 
As I say, we commend the Government for that inclusion. However, I am mystified as to why limitations are imposed in clause 22 which states: 
Applications may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of- 
a refusal of the Minister to register premises under section 12, not being a refusal by virtue of sub-section 12 (5); 
Sub-clause 12(5) states: 
Where an applicant under this section was not, on 1 October 1977, engaged in the spinning of bountiable yarn at the premises to which the application relates, the Minister shall refuse to register those premises unless, in the opinion of the Minister, the registration of those premises will promote the orderly development of the production of bountiable yarn in Australia. 
My understanding of that sub-clause is that a current manufacturer of bountiable yarn who was not producing bountiable yarn on or prior to 1 October 1977 may be, and can in fact be, refused registration by the Minister. That applicant is denied the right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for a review of the Minister's decision. I ask the Attorney-General whether he would be good enough to clarify that position. 
One other appeal provision which I find a little puzzling is sub-clause (b) of clause 22. Clause 22 sets out the nature of applications that may be reviewed by the Tribunal. Sub-clause (b) refers to an approval of the Minister given under section 10 or a refusal of the Minister to give an approval under that section. Clause 10 states: 
1 ) Where an application for bounty in respect of bountiable yarn is lodged in accordance with the regulations, the Minister shall- 
if he is satisfied that bounty is payable in respect of that yarn- approve the payment of the bounty; or 
If the application is approved by the Minister as satisfying the requirements of the payment of the bounty I find it difficult to understand why there should be a provision under clause 22 for a review of the Minister's approval given under clause 10. Who would be making the application for that review? As I understand the position, the parties entitled to make application for a review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal would be applicants who had lodged applications for registration. I find it difficult to understand why a successful applicant would seek a review of his successful application. 
I have outlined a number of matters that the Opposition believes require clarification. Above all, the Opposition is greatly concerned that manufacturers of bountiable yarn can be excluded from an entitlement to payment. They can be excluded on a number of grounds. The provision we are concerned about, of course, is that described in sub-clause 12 (5). Approximately five months have passed since the Bill was deemed to have come into operation, on 1 October 1977. The Opposition believes it would be improper if a manufacturer who did not have any knowledge of the intention of the Government between 1 October 1977 and the introduction of this legislation last week in the other place and who decided to invest in equipment during this period- I understand that specialised equipment is required for the production of this type of yarn- should find that he is likely to be precluded from his right to make a successful application for the registration of his premises and so be entitled to payment of the bounty. 
I repeat that the Opposition supports the Bill, but it has grave concern as to whether it will achieve the desired results, because of the way in which the Bill prescribes the method of application of the bounty. The Opposition hopes that the Attorney-General in due course can allay its fears and that the intention of the report and recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission will achieve the desired result for the industry. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to clarify a question in relation to clause 5 which is described as 'restoration of widows' or widowers' pension previously cancelled on remarriage '. The clause seeks to amend section 48aa of the principal Act. The second reading speech says: 
The 1976 amendments made spouses' benefits available to a wider range of persons including, under certain conditions, a de facto spouse and the spouse of a marriage after retirement. 
I wonder whether this covers the situation of a married superannuate whose spouse predeceases him before retirement and who, after retirement, remarries. Would the second spouse be entitled to the pension that otherwise would have been payable to the first spouse if she had not predeceased the superannuate before his retirement? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. To render my question intelligible, it will be necessary for me to quote briefly from a letter from the Minister for Defence which was addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, and conveyed to him an answer to a question which I had asked back in May 1976. The letter states, in pan: 
On 4 November 1976 you undertook to provide  Senator Brown  with information concerning the review of DFRB/DFRDB reversionary benefits arrangements, a matter which he had raised earlier during the Senate debate on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) 1 976-77. 
As I mentioned in the Parliament on 4 May 1 976, 1 issued instructions to my Department to prepare amendments to the Defence Force legislation so that in future members of the Services schemes are placed in comparable circumstances with members of the Commonwealth Public Service superannuation schemes where a recipient spouse remarries. 
The Minister for Defence wound up by saying: 
I have been informed that the examination is nearing completion and that a full report will be available for my and the Government's consideration in the near future. I will be announcing the outcome as soon as I am in a position to do so. 
I am prompted to ask this question because of the Superannuation Acts Amendment Bill 1978, which seeks to amend the Superannuation Act 1922, the Superannuation Act 1976 and the Superannuation Amendment Act 1976. I ask: What progress has been made in respect of the preparation of these appropriate amendments to the DFRB legislation? Further, I repeat my request of 4 May 1976: Will the Minister treat this as a matter of urgency because of the extreme personal difficulties being caused to many retired servicemen and their wives? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science in the first instance; alternatively, I direct the question to the Minister in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware of a recent report about a pest by the name of servan 'i grapier which entomologists uniquely describe as a gum leaf, grass root eating grub, capable of devastating vegetable crops and pastures if protective measures are not taken? I am reliably informed that current pesticides are inefficient in controlling or eradicating this menace. Will the Minister give this matter his urgent consideration to ascertain: (a) where this pest has been sighted in Australia; (b) the dimensions of any infestations; and (c) what measures may be taken to deal with this serious threat to vegetable crops and pastures? 
-I present the following petition from 46 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That it is necessary for the Commonwealth Government to renew for a futher term of at least 3 years the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act 1974-77, renewed for one year expiring on 30 June 1 978. 
The demand for dwellings has not slackened as the waiting list (all States) of 12,060 single and 4,120 couples as at 30 June 1977, showeth. 
Your petitioners respectfully draw the attention of the Commonwealth Government to the Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Aged Persons' Housing 1975 under the Chairmanship of the Rev. K. Seaman (now Governor of South Australia) which recommended additional funds to State housing authorities to meet the demand for low-rental accommodation in the proportion of $4 for $ 1 with the proviso that the States do not reduce their existing expenditure and 
That the Act include married pensioners eligible for supplementary assistance and migrants as specified by the Seaman Report and that particular consideration be paid to the special needs and requirements of the prospective tenants in the location and design of such dwellings. 
Furthermore, your petitioners desire to draw the Government's attention to the hardship of many pensioner home owners caused by the high cost of maintenance. 
The Social Security Annual Report 1976-77 shows that 24.6 per cent, or 283,000 home owning pensioners, have a weekly income in excess of the pension of less than $6 per week. 
Your petitioners strongly urge the Commonwealth Government to establish a fund whereby loans can be made to means tested pensioners for the purpose of effecting necessary maintenance to their homes. Such a loan to be at minimal interest rates sufficient to cover administrative costs and to be repaid by the estate upon the death of a single pensioner before probate or upon the death of the surviving spouse in the case of married pensioners or where two pensioners jointly own the dwelling. Administration to be carried out by local government bodies. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct my question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Is it correct that this morning  Mr Hamer,  the Premier of Victoria, wrote to the Prime Minister complaining in very strong terms about the measures proposed by the Federal Government for uranium mining? I am given to believe that in the letter  Mr Hamer  stated: 
I am concerned at the possible future implications which could be far reaching in many other fields if the attempt to extend Commonwealth jurisdiction by such indirect means into areas for which it has no specific head of power were to be seen as a precedent. 
What action does the Government propose taking as a result of the complaints from  Mr Hamer? 
-I wish to raise a point despite your response,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  to the request by  Senator Walsh.  I would be reluctant to take this position if what you said was a ruling. 
With respect, the matter before the Committee at the moment is clause 2, concerning the date of commencement of the Act, to which the Opposition has moved an amendment seeking to stand over the date of operation of clauses 11 and 13 until such time as the Commonwealth and the States have had further consultation and reached agreement on a uniform code. It seems to me contingent in some respects upon the fifth proposed amendment of the Government. I should like clarification whether our interpretation of that proposed amendment could alter our views in respect of our proposed amendment. This is not a question of debating the Government's fifth amendment. It is a question of seeking clarification so that we can look at clause 2 of the Bill to see whether our amendment is still appropriate. I think that is a quite legitimate exercise. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development been drawn to reports of the findings of a United States Congressional committee last week, which are set out in a document entitled  Nuclear Power Costs?  This document shows that after two years of deliberations by the committee concerned: Firstly, the problem of burying nuclear waste is far from being solved and there are no solutions in sight to this problem; and, secondly, renewable energy from the sun could easily be produced if it were given the same government and industry priority as nuclear energy has been given. Will the Minister take urgent steps to see that this report is made available to all members of the Australian Parliament? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Prime Minister and refers to an article which appeared on the front page of the  Australian  on Monday of this week entitled: 'PM to push for tariff trade-off'. The article states, among other things: 
The Federal Government will agree to cut tariffs by 40 per cent over eight years if the major industrial nations guarantee to stabilise prices for commodities and agricultural produce. 
I ask the Minister: Is there any substance in this report? In my view, if there is, it would spell disaster for our manufacturing industries. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations whether his attention has been drawn to an article in the Melbourne  Sun  of Wednesday of this week the headlines of which state: Dixon in blast on jobless. 
In the article  Mr Dixon,  who is the Social Welfare Minister in the Victorian Hamer Government, is reported as follows: 
The Federal Government had failed to tackle unemployment realistically- 
The article continues: 
He said there was an urgent need for a White Paper setting out employment objectives and options. 'It's been very difficult proceeding in the dark- let's have light on the alternatives, ' he said. 
I ask the Minister whether the Victorian Government has made any request to the Federal Government along the lines suggested by  Mr Dixon?  If not, will the Government consider acting on what I believe is a very worthwhile suggestion, the production of a White Paper on unemployment and the alternatives? 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you and is prompted by the question that was asked by  Senator Lewis.  It concerns a rather delicate and difficult matter in respect of the sub judice rule. It would appear that it is both delicate and difficult from time to time Ibr the Chair to rule on this matter. It seems to me that there are probably three areas which could receive some consideration with regard to the application of the sub judice rule. I refer to a judicial inquiry as distinct from a royal commission and procedures in a normal court of law. I ask you whether you will bc good enough to have this matter referred to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration and. in due course, report to the Senate. 
-At this very late hour may I take a few brief moments to express my appreciation to the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  and other honourable senators, who have been very courteous in their remarks about my presence in this institution. Like  Senator Tom  Drake-Brockman, I want to express my appreciation to the officers of the Senate, to the attendants inside this chamber who look after our every need and want, and to those outside the chamber who service the Senate generally. On many occasions I have wondered at their tolerance and patience and endurance. Although we complain about being here until the early hours of the morning, we must remember that they too are here and they are expected to fetch and carry when we ask them to assist us. I have never receieved other than courtesy, co-operation, and the kind of service that one would expect from the sort of people that they are. 
One could go on in respect of the staff. In terms of the committees on which I have been privileged to serve, I have always found that the officers of the committee secretariats have shown the utmost courtesy and consideration. Likewise, we could not do without those folk in the place where we water and feed- the dining room- and those who are not in the front of the house, so to speak, but in the kitchens. There is another facilitythe coffee room- adjoining the dining room, and a tribute should be paid to the tolerance of the staff there. They need to be extremely tolerant, as I have observed from time to time with the frivolity that is engaged in, not often but occasionally, in that area. 
In spite of myself, and in spite of the politics of some people opposite, when I came to this place I could not help but find some friends amongst them. Believe it or not, I have been very surprised at the number of people with whom I have enjoyed a very warm friendship. Working on committees- one in particular that was referred to was the fact-finding mission in the South Pacific area- one really comes to grips with the people one is with. I have always been of the opinion that there are two ways of finding out what people are like: Either you live with them or you work with them. Without being egotistical, my judgment to date has never been proved wrong. 
I thank you,  Mr President,  for your consideration and courtesy at all times. I convey also my appreciation to your predecessor. At one time I had a rather nasty patch and I will never forget the assistance that was afforded to my wife and family. Anything they wanted was granted without any problem whatsoever. I understand that a gentleman by the name of Oscar Wilde said that experience is the name that men give to their mistakes. I trust that my presence in this place over the last eight or nine years will not be seen by history as a mistake. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
Is a pest,  Servanti  Grapier,  which entomologists describe as a green leaf-grass root eating bug, capable of devastating vegetable crops and pastures if protective measures are not taken. 
Are current pesticides inefficient in controlling or eradicating this menace. 
Will the Minister ascertain: 
where this pest has been sighted in Australia; 
the dimensions, if any, of infestations; and 
what measures may be taken to deal with this serious threat to vegetable crops and pastures. 
