My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, more specifically in his capacity as Minister-in-Charge of the Commonwealth Scientific and industrial Research Organisation. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the great amount of damage which a plague of mice is causing to agricultural crops in various parts of Australia? As poison appears to be an ineffective method of control, and as from past experience disease has usually wiped mice out, will the Minister request the officers of the CSIRO, as a matter of urgency, to take steps in co-operation with the States, if this is practicable, to infect mice, where they are in plague proportions, with a disease with a view to bringing them under control? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the congestion of air traffic, excessive noise and increased air pollution at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, will the Government give early consideration to the establishment of an inland international airport with feeder services to State Capital cities? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry as a matter of urgency request the Australian Wool Board to direct the International Wool Secretariat to make an early report to him giving the views of the International Wool Secretariat on the fall of wool prices over the last 6 months? 
 Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the  Temporary Chairman do now leave  the  Chair and  report to  the  Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly) - 
I oppose the motion now before the Senate. I will not waste a great deal of time in referring to arguments put forward by honourable senators on this side of the chamber when we debated this issue last year. The reasons were given then as to why the Government felt it was in the best interests of the wool industry to ease the ban on the export of merino rams. I wish to refer briefly to the events of the previous 2 or 3 years in order to illustrate the responsible manner in which the Government has viewed this matter, and the attitudes adopted by various wool industry organisations in Australia. After the matter had been discussed for quite a few years it was brought before the Australian Agricultural Council in 1964 or 1965. The Council decided to refer it to the Australian Wool Industry Conference, which in turn referred it to the Australian Wool Board. The matter then went to the International Wool Secretariat and was referred to prominent scientists experienced in genetics. 
All those people and organisations believed that it was in the best interests to at least ease the embargo on the export of merino rams, having in mind that it could be reviewed from time to time. The matter was referred back to the AWIC, which voted by 38 to 15 in favour of easing the ban. In other words, 70% of the delegates to the Australian Wool Industry Conference voted to ease the ban. It was put that qualifications as to the number to be exported should be reviewed annually and that the rams should be sold at recognised auction sales in this country. Honourable senators opposite have referred to certain organisations which opposed the easing of the ban. Although I do not necessarily disagree with it, it is well to remember that of the 14 State organisations represented on the Australian Wool Industry Conference, 11 organisations supported the easing of the ban. I might come back to this point in a few moments. 
Honourable senators opposite have attempted to ridicule the wool grower organisation.  Senator O'Byrne  mentioned that the AWIC had vested interests in that among its members were stud breeders. To the best of my knowledge there is not a merino stud breeder on the AWIC - there certainly was not when I was on it. That refutes the claim that it has vested interests on behalf of the stud breeders throughout the Commonwealth. It certainly does not have vested interests. There would be few if any stud breeders among the representatives on that body and I do not believe that there are any. 
Next it was suggested that the AWIC does not represent the wool growers throughout the Commonwealth. I refute this suggestion also. The AWIC formation is similar to that of any other organisation which has been set up to look after the interests of a particular industry. First there are the members of an organisation - whether it is the Graziers Association or the Wool and Meat Producers Federation it does not matter. They have their branches and from their branches they have State councils from which they form their Federal bodies. That is the procedure adopted in nil organisations and 1 believe that it is the system adopted in trade unions also. To the best of my belief 70% or more of wool growers belong to one of these organisations. So 1 do not think it can be claimed that the AWIC does not represent the wool growers of Australia. Do members of the Australian Labor Party believe that if they were in power they should take notice of the arguments of these fragmented organisations or individuals or do they believe that they would look to the industry organisations for advice on questions such as this? 1 believe fully in the concept al least of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. I admit that perhaps its composition could be improved to a degree in order to improve its efficiency, but I am sure that the concept of having a federal body, representative of members who can speak through their branches to the federal body, is a concept which, if we are fair minded, we approve. 
Tomorrow in Sydney the Australian Wool industry Conference will be meeting probably to consider the marketing question. lt is quite possible, and perhaps even probable, that ihe Conference will arrive at a decision on this question which vitally affects the wool industry. At this stage I am not speaking for or against the proposal for a marketing authority which is now being considered by the industry, but the point I make is this: If the vote at the Conference is 70% in favour of a change in the wool marketing system - just as there was a 70% vote in favour of easing the ban on the export of merino rams - will the Labor Party oppose that decision? I challenge honourable senators opposite to say now whether they will oppose it. Will they go out to branch meetings throughout Australia and state their opposition to the decision? This is a question which will put honourable senators opposite on their mettle because they will have to decide whether they believe in ihe AWIC. 1 believe that the Wool Industry Conference will come up with a decision soon. Opposition senators have committed themselves by attacking the AWIC and they will be put on their mettle in regard to a decision on marketing. 
In the situation in which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  found himself last year it was necessary for him to act responsibly. This he did by deciding in February to ease the ban. He said on that occasion that he proposed to ease the ban, but in view of some opposition lo his decision he did not take action for a considerable time. As has been mentioned here tonight, he suggested that those organisations and individuals who were opposed to an easing of the ban might contact the AWIC to express their views. So far as I am aware no representations were made to the AWIC by the retention committee. Why? There does not seem to be any answer to this question.  Yet  this was lbc organisation to approach if anyone was opposed to the scheme. As a consequence, the executive of the AWIC wrote to the Minister telling him that in its view it was not necessary to change its recommendation on this question. Reference has been made to a decision of the Graziers Association in New South Wales last week. Great emphasis was put by the Opposition on the fact that the vote in favour of retaining the ban was 62 to 32. But it must be remembered that that is the smallest margin in voting that we have seen for a long time. Last year I think the vote was about 70 to 17 in favour of retaining the ban, which is quite different from a vote of 62 to 32. This year the vote is about 2 to I in favour of retaining the ban whereas last year it was 4 or 5 to 1. So it can be seen that that organisation is changing its thoughts on this matter, despite all the opposition to a lifting of the ban. 
Included in the matter of urgency outlined was the question of a referendum. I believe that a referendum would be completely impracticable. Who would be given a vote? The Labor Party has not suggested who should vote. Would the fat lamb breeder be given a vote? Would the corriedale or polwarth breeder be given a vote? At present they are allowed to export their rams, so would they be given a vote on this vexed question? Would the man with 10 merino sheep be entitled to a vote? lt must be remembered also that in some cases it is hard to determine whether sheep are merinos. Perhaps be would be given a qualified vote. I think there is no doubt that it would be quite impracticable to hold a referendum. 
Some emphasis has been given to the suggestion that the Government has acted without consulting organisations which are interested in this question. I should like to mention that when a decision was announced by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Labor Party, was reported as having said that this action by the Government was reprehensible', that it was 'discreditable' and the 'greatest abuse of procedures in the Australian Federal Parliament'. Do honourable senators opposite believe that? If so, let us consider what happened when the Australian Labor Party applied a ban. The Senate will be aware that on this occasion the ban was applied by a notice in the Government 'Gazette'. 
 No, it was gazetted first and debated later. 1 propose to read from page 356 of the Hansard report of 29th November 1929. It states: 

 Mr Parker Moloney ; i consulted the Farmers and Settlers Association, whose secretary told me that that organisation, at a recent conference, had carried a motion, by a majority of five to one, in favour of the action taken by the Government. The soldier settlers are another body that I have consulted. i have had their representatives here for a month. 

 Dr EARLE PAGE ; Those men represent only one State; but i point out that there are federal organisations of farmers, graziers, and stockowners, who are willing to come to Canberra and discuss the matter with the Minister. They would be able to give him practical advice that would bc of real value. The late Government was always prepared to, and always did, consult the unions in regard to industrial matters; but i am informed tonight that the leaders of the organisations interested in sheep-grazing have not been consulted. i hope that, before taking further action, the Minister will get into touch with them. 
It can be seen that they conferred with the soldier settlers who at that stage might have been fruit growers or anything else. They were not necessarily wool growers. If they were wool growers they would have been in a very small way because they were not settled on the land until after the war. The Farmers and Settlers Association which was mentioned was mainly  a  wheat growers organisation. This is the sort of thing that the Labor Party throws at the Government. They did not consult any of the federal organisations but instead took it upon themselves to take action on their own. So I think it is almost contemptible for the Labor Party to come forward with this story now. 
Finally, 1 want to deal very briefly with what has taken place more recently. I refer to the unions' ban on the export of merino rams. If anything is reprehensible and discreditable, it is the unions' attempt to take the law into their own hands, almost to the point of anarchy. 1 believe that this defiance of law and order, particularly since the Labor Party supports the unions in this regard, is an attempt to take the law out of the hands of the Government of the day. I think that Australian wool growers ars very concerned at this action, and this is the reason why perhaps those who originally were prepared to support the ban are now prepared to vote the other way. New South Wales graziers and the United Farmers and Wool Growers Association recently have unanimously condemned the unions for taking this action. Only the week before last Riverina graziers not only reconsidered the question of the embargo and their continued support for the easing of the embargo, but also condemned the unions' ban on the export of merino rams and the Labor Parly's support of the unions in this regard. I hope that ways and means will be found by which the unions will ease the ban in order that the people with whom we trade will think more of Australia and give greater consideration to trading with Australia in the future than they have done in the past, because of the imposition of this ban. As honourable senators know, the whole question is to be reviewed at the end of the first 12 months after the easing of the embargo on the export of merino rams. At that time perhaps representations, if they are considered necessary, could be made for a review of the whole situation. I oppose the motion. 
Motion (by  Senator Willesee)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Can the Minister representing the Postmaster-General give any information about the intention of the PostmasterGeneral to institute a uniform telephone charge throughout Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Because of the request by the Australia-United KingdomEurope Shipping Conference for a  7i%  increase in the rate of freight, which seems to contradict the assurance given to the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes that freight rates would be held following the introduction of containerised cargoes, is the Minister aware of the concern being expressed by  some members of the Australia to Europe Shippers Association about whom the Commonwealth Government is supporting when it represents shipowners and shippers' interests? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, lt follows a question asked earlier about muttion exports to the United States of America. Will the 
Minister ask the Minister for Trade and Industry to make representations to the United States Administration to have mutton import restrictions lifted as each export abattoir meets the health standards required by the United States of America? 
 I realise the difficulty here,  Senator Anderson,  but I am advised that it has been the practice when dealing with appropriation Bills to allow discussion on administrative matters. However, I ask honourable senators to confine their remarks to the estimates and to keep fairly close to the Appropriation Bill before us. 

 - Senator Turnbull, if you used that remark, you will withdraw it. 


 Senator Turnbull, do you wish to proceed with your proposal to stand the clause over? 
Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The  Chairman  having reported accordingly.) 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. The question is: That in clause 9 the words proposed to be inserted be inserted. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
At end of clause add the following paragraphs: " (b) by omitting from sub-section (3.) the words ' may, in his discretion,' and inserting in their stead the word ' shall '; and (c) by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: -  (6.) There shall be a right of appeal on the determination of the Minister under the last preceding sub-section by a contributor to the jurisdiction which determined or would have otherwise heard his claim for compensation or damage.'.". 
In the event of that amendment being carried there is a consequential amendment in the following terms: 
After " amended " insert " (a) - ". 
Clause 16 relates to section 21 of the principal Act which is concerned with compensation payments. Section 21 of the original Act is" found on page 20. 
In amplification of the submissions which the Opposition makes on this matter I wish to refer, firstly, to proposed new subsection (1.) of section 21. Section 21 of the principal Act relates to Commonwealth benefit not being payable where the contributor is entitled to compensation or damages. Proposed new sub-section (1.) of section 21 states: 
Where, in respect of medical expenses incurred by a contributor, he has received or established his right to receive a payment by way of compensation or damages (including a payment in settlement of a claim for compensation or damages) under the law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory, and the amount of that payment is not less than the aggregate of the amount of Commonwealth benefit and the amount of fund benefit that would be payable in respect of those medical expenses if he had not received or established his right to receive that payment, Commonwealth benefit is not payable in respect of those medical expenses. 
In other words, proposed new sub-section (1.) of section 21 will provide that where a contributor has received, or has established his right to receive, payment by way of compensation or damages under a Commonwealth or State law and the amount involved is not less than the total of the Commonwealth benefit and fund benefit which would be payable in respect of medical expenses if he had not established his right to such compensation or damages, then the Commonwealth benefit is not payable in respect of such medical expenses. Proposed new sub-section (2.) of section 21 states: 
Where, in respect of medical expenses incurred by a contributor, he has received or established his right to receive a payment of the kind referred to in the last preceding sub-section- 
That is, compensation or damages - but the amount of that payment is less than the aggregate referred to in that sub-section- 
That is, Commonwealth benefit and fund benefit - 
Commonwealth benefit is not payable in respect of those medical expenses except to the extent of such amount as the Director-General determines, but not exceeding the amount by which that aggregate exceeds the sum of the amount of fund benefit payable in respect of those medical expenses and the amount of the payment of the kind referred to in the last preceding sub-section that he has received or established his right to receive. 
In other words, if the compensation awarded is less than what would normally be the amount of the Commonwealth benefit and the fund benefit, the Commonwealth will bridge the gap, as it were, between the award and the aggregate of the Commonwealth benefit and the fund benefit. Subsection (3.) of section 21 of the principal Act states: 
Where, at the time at which payment of Commonwealth benefit is claimed, it appears to the Director-General that the contributor may be entitled to receive a payment of the kind referred to in sub-section (1.)- but he has not established his right, either by way of settlement of the action or a court determination, to the payment of compensation or damages - the Commonwealth benefit is not payable, of course - the Director-General has a discretion to authorise provisional payment of an amount of Commonwealth benefit not exceeding the amount which but for this section would be payable. In other words, when a contributor makes a claim for Commonwealth benefit and, before he has established his right to compensation or damages, it appears to the Director-General that the contributor may be entitled to receive compensation or damages, the Commonwealth benefit is not payable but the Director-General has a discretion vested in him to authorise the provisional payment of an amount not exceeding the Commonwealth benefit which would normally be payable and when compensation is awarded, either by way of a court determination or settlement of the action, the contributor is liable to repay to the Commonwealth any amount by which the provisional payment exceeds the amount which is payable under proposed new sub-section (1.). 
I am given to understand that in some cases persons with compensation claims pending have been deprived of the provisional payment of Commonwealth benefit and the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  in another place who, as we all know, is a medical practitioner, advises me that he himself has had several of these cases. When I was a member of the St. George Hospital Board in Sydney some people who had a claim pending for compensation came to me and told me that they could not receive the 
Commonwealth benefit pending the settlement or determination of their claim. Naturally, until such time as the claim is determined the hospital or the member of the medical fraternity involved has to carry the financial burden of the amount of the fee outstanding. We say in our amendment that it should be mandatory for the DirectorGeneral to authorise provisional payments of the amount of Commonwealth benefit that would normally be payable. The provision, of course, still exists in the Bill whereby allowance is made for a person who receives a benefit while a compensation claim is pending or while settlement of the action is pending to refund the amount of that benefit upon the ultimate determination of the claim. 
We say this provision is quite reasonable and therefore we say that because that section is included the request for the amendment making it mandatory for the Director-General .to authorise provisional payment of the Commonwealth benefit which is now proposed by the Opposition will considerably improve the legislation. It will relieve the person involved of a great deal of financial concern and it will ease the burden on the hospitals and the medical fraternity which now have to wait a considerable time in some cases for settlement of their account Paragraph (c) of our proposed amendment adds at the end of clause  21  a new paragraph, paragraph  (6.).  It reads: 
There shall be a right of appeal on the determination of the Minister under the last preceding sub-section by a contributor to the jurisdiction which determined or would have otherwise heard his claim for compensation or damage. 
For the purposes of this section- 
That is section  21 - the Minister may determine that the whole or a specified part of a payment in settlement of a claim for compensation or damages shall be regarded as being in respect of medical expenses incurred by a contributor. 
Let us assume a worker has a claim before a supreme court, a compensation commission or a district court for, say,  $20,000  and the ultimate determination either by the court that has the jurisdiction or by way of settlement is  $10,000.  Some of it is for medical expenses, some for pain and suffering and some for all the other ancillary matters that are taken into account in the assessment by the tribunal of the amount awarded. But the Minister, after that determination is made, or after the settlement has been made, according to sub-section  (5.)  may determine that the whole or a specified part of a payment in settlement of a claim for compensation or damages shall be regarded as being in respect of medical expenses incurred by a contributor. It could well be that if a worker makes a claim for  $10,000  and he is awarded, we will say,  $5,000  by a court the Minister then may determine that the whole of the  $5,000  relates to medical expenses incurred by the patient. Should that happen, bearing in mind section  21 (1.),  he would then not have any right to Commonwealth benefit. We suggest that this is an arbitrary power that at present is vested in the Minister and that there should be provision in the Act, when the Minister determines such a condition, giving the right of appeal to the worker against the Minister's arbitrary determination. 
Minister's arbitrary determination and that that right of appeal should lie with the court of jurisdiction which determined the original application or, if the award was effected by way of settlement, with the jurisdiction which but for the settlement would have heard the action. We believe that the proposed amendments are fair and reasonable. They are just. They give a worker a right of appeal against an arbitrary determination of the Minister. Our amendments do not allow the DirectorGeneral' the exercise of a discretion in determining whether or not he shall authorise provisional payments of the Commonwealth benefit. In any event there is still provision in the section, if an award is made, for the amount of Commonwealth benefit to be repayable under the preceding sections. We suggest that these amendments would further improve the national health scheme. I put them forward on behalf of the Opposition. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate of the latest figures concerning our exports of meat under the quota system to the United States of America? Is it anticipated that the diversification scheme will have to be revised again prior to the end of November, when the 1971 quotas will be due for shipment? What effect is the drought in Queensland having on the shipment of beef from that State to overseas destinations? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that shipping freight rates on wool to the United Kingdom and Europe increase by 4 per cent from today and that it is estimated that such an increase will cost wool growers an extra $4m a year? Can the Minister explain why the provisions of the Trade Pracrices Act were not invoked in an attempt to prevent such increases? 
1 present from 1373 residents of Australia the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
Thai their concern arises partly from the fact that historians such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', Page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian gallup poll, published in the Melbourne Herald', 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature  aDd  radio and television programmes is so framed and se administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners,  as  in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that there is a great deal of concern in the wool industry because of a lack of information regarding average prices for wool sold since the commencement of the wool selling season which, among other things, is causing uncertainty and a lack of confidence in the store sheep market? Can the Minister give any information regarding the average prices for wool sold during the first 2 weeks of sales? Will he use his influence to ensure that the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation publishes at the end of each week the average price for wool sold at auction, including wool sold under the price averaging plan? 
I am surprised at the heat that has been engendered by the debate tonight. I am quite sure that when  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson moved the motion he did not think that such heat would be engendered. 
I do not rise to speak to the motion but rather to state what I believe should be done in the circumstances. I have in mind that we must always recognise that a committee of any organisation is a committee set up to give detailed consideration to the matter in hand. It then has to report to the substantive body which, in this case, is the Senate. The Standing Orders Committee is the special committee set up for the purpose of considering the Standing Orders. I hope that this matter and the other matters on the business paper that arc to come before us tonight will be referred to the Standing Orders Committee in the first instance. 
Senaton Cotton - Move that way. 
I move: 
That notice of motion No. 8, General Business, be referred to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration and report back to the Senate. 
I think this is the right way to do it. The Committee would then come back to the Senate with a unanimous report, a majority report or a minority report and we could consider it. In my opinion, this is how it should have been done. 
1 rise to support the motion that the Senate take note of the Budget papers and to oppose the amendment. Although the Opposition has been critical of the Budget I am surprised to find tonight that it is not putting up any speakers to criticise the Budget as it has done in the past. The Opposition is being shown in its true colours. Most contributions to this debate by members of the Opposition have offered destructive criticism rather than constructive suggestions. I regard the Budget debate as one of the most important debates of the Parliament. It provides an opportunity for the Government to place before Parliament details of revenue and expenditure over the preceding 12 months. lt is also the function of the Government to furnish details of financial proposals for the current year. The handling of finances by any national government is one of the most responsible functions it has to perform. 
Quite a deal has been said in this debate about whether the Budget is inflationary or deflationary. At a time when all members of this Parliament, irrespective of party affiliations, arc concerned about the effect of inflation on our national economy it is only natural that a great deal of comment should be made outside the Parliament by the Press and leading economists. The fact that the Government is budgeting for a surplus and is prepared to introduce measures to restrain inflation indicates that the Government proposes not to take deflationary action to the point where the economy will be harmed, but to control inflation as is considered necessary. 
At present our export industries are facing tremendous difficulties. I refer particularly to our primary industries. I hope that the Government will continue to maintain tight control of the economy so that inflation does not increase. This is of tremendous importance. Members of the Opposition have not put forward constructive measures. They have not said what they would do in the present situation if the Australian Labor Party were in power. 
I have been concerned with rural industries all my life and naturally I am particularly interested in this field. It must be remembered that the main reason for the present difficulties of the primary industries is the fall in export prices for our primary products. Statistics show that prices now being received generally for our export commodities are at about the level of those received in 1961. As costs have increased by about  2i  per cent each year our primary industries have faced great difficulties. This situation is also creating problems for secondary industries in the export field. 
At present wool producers are receiving about 30c per lb for their product, a fall of about 30 per cent over prices paid at this time last year. Restrictions on the growing of wheat have of necessity been imposed. It is clear that great difficulties confront primary industries irrespective of the political party in power. Even industries like the rice industry which have had a tremendous record of profitability in the past are running into trouble because of difficulties in finding export markets. Overproduction within Australia is another aggravating factor. One reads that the rice industry is facing problems that were not apparent a year or two ago. It must be acknowledged that the difficulties have been greatly aggravated by a very serious drought in many States, particularly in Queensland where primary producers are enduring one of the most disastrous droughts in history. These conditions have made it extremely difficult for primary industries. 
I think we should consider the action that might be taken to alleviate some of those difficulties. When suggestions are made to give financial assistance to primary industries a howl of protest is raised by the city Press. I have never suggested in this chamber at any stage that subsidies should be a permanent ingredient of any industry. For that matter, I have never advocated tariff protection as a long term measure. However, I think honourable senators will agree that the assistance given up to this year to primary industries has been largely directed to lifting profit in those industries. This has been a wise course, particularly at a time when export markets have been available to us. 
I refer particularly to the superphosphate subsidy. It has cost the Government a good many millions of dollars each year, but I am quite sure that the returns to the producers and the national economy, and in good times to the Treasury through taxation, have more than paid for the cost of the subsidy. The payment of subsidies must be studied very closely. By paying subsidies at a time of over-production the Government would probably create more troubles than are faced at the moment. But I am the first to acknowledge that some assistance must be given immediately to most of our primary industries. If assistance is not forthcoming very quickly many people at present in financial difficulty but still credit worthy will be forced unfortunately to leave the land. The people affected are not only those engaged in rural production, but also the workers in country towns. They are feeling the pinch a great deal at this time. 
Recently I attended a meeting at Forbes in central New South Wales. If my memory serves me correctly, a man engaged in the machinery business there said that at this time last year he had 84 employees but this year the number is down to 17. That decrease indicates the falling off in the sale of machinery, and probably also in sales of distillate and other products. I could list a whole range of businesses which are dependent upon profitable rural industries and which are affected at present. 
All these people are affected. Today the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  tabled in the Parliament a report which referred to the small number of unemployed in Australia. However, a disturbing feature is that in the last month as many people have become unemployed in rural areas as in all the city areas of Australia. That has increased the seriousness of the situation. Nowadays we hear a great deal about air pollution, water pollution, transport difficulties, health and other such matters. I do not think that at this time as a nation, when we are trying to build up our economy and improve our quality of life, we can afford to have an exodus from the country to the cities. That is another result of the decline in rural exports. 
In my speech in the Budget debate last year I referred to the danger of a fall in our rural exports at a time of cost inflation and during a period in which we need more than an inflow of capital to maintain our credit position overseas. Methods that might assist in this direction include long term loans at reasonable rates of interest to people in primary industries so that they might be enabled to get into production again. Many of them have extensive assets, but they lack the credit to enable them to replace stock lost as a result of drought and other reasons and to get back into production. I believe that the Government must come to their assistance by means of long term loans at reasonable rates of interest. 
I am very glad that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  announced just recently that the Government is making a detailed study of the rural position and the need for rural reconstruction, both from the point of view of the indebtedness of primary producers and from the point of view of land tenure, and that it is conferring with the States on this matter. This is a wise step that the Government  k  taking. From what I know, New South Wales is the only State that has available at the present time the machinery for rural reconstruction. If this assistance is to be given to these producers, I think it will be necessary for it to be done through the machinery that is available in New South Wales, namely, a rural reconstruction board. Because we must have a uniform system of assisting people, I hope that the machinery will become available in other States in order that we may be able to do this. 
There is one thing that I am very disappointed the Government has not done; that is, to give more direct assistance to local government. The cost of local government is one of the heaviest costs that rural people are forced to pay at the present time. In some cases rates have risen to such an extent that they now represent up to $1 per sheep or beast. Whereas when the rating system was introduced some years ago the idea was for the local council to construct the roads to the properties of rural people and the people along whose properties the roads went were probably the only ones who derived any advantage from them, nowadays the general public use these roads. 1 believe that our rating system as it applies to rural producers is completely out of date. 
The New South Wales Government has a local government grants commission, which 1 believe is the machinery through which the Government could give assistance^ - -perhaps on a dollar for. dollar basis or an even more favourable basis - in order that local councils might be able to assist rural producers. It is high time the public realised that the ratepayer is not available to provide the amenities now more or less demanded by many of the people who live in the towns and many of whom are not ratepayers at all. I hope that before long the Government will recognise this need. Whilst I appreciate that it is a State responsibility to find finance for local government. I believe that the need is so immense that the States are unable to do so. I hope that the Commonwealth Government will come to their assistance in this regard. So much of our production is sold overseas that I believe the Government, commodity boards and producers generally must make a maximum effort to expand our sales. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
In my remarks on this Budget which I commenced last night 1 had reached the stage of referring to attempts that must be made to lift the prices for our primary products. While we may be able to do something about reducing the cost of production this must of necessity be. of a fairly minor nature. The only other means by which we can bridge the gap between prices and costs is to attempt to lift our productivity which in rural industry at the present time is extremely difficult because of unprofitability in at least some rural industries. Real profitability - which is essential - will come only when we receive better prices for the products which we produce. No industry can operate profitably for very long on any form of subsidy. In my opinion subsidies must be used only to cover periods of difficulty. We have to create a demand for our products. 
Bearing in mind that we have to create this demand we must look to overseas markets, particularly in the developing countries which show, in my view, the best prospects of paying increased prices for Australian products. I am thinking particularly of the developing areas of South East Asia where there appears to he some prospect of our lifting prices and selling more of our products, I am aware, of course, that the Government and the rural producer boards are doing as much as they can but I think that we must place particular emphasis on the necessity to create demand in these areas. I know that it is the responsibility of an industry to promote sales of the goods produced within that industry, but any help that the Government can give by way of credit is of tremendous value particularly to our rural industries. 
Faced wilh the possibility that the United Kingdom may enter the European Economic Community Australia will in the future have greater difficulties than it now has in disposing of its products. As I have already said, we must look to other overseas countries, such as Japan where there appears to be some prospect of increasing Our export meat quota. I refer particularly to our beef quota, which is comparatively low in that country, whose people are becoming more conscious of the importance of meat in their diet. Other countries that might be considered are those of Eastern Europe where there may be prospects of improved sales. In the past trade agreements, particularly with Japan, have played a very important part in Australia's export trade. In an endeavour to increase the sales of our rural products we must place particular emphasis upon such trade agreements. 
I want now to refer to aid to developing countries. At a time when we have difficulty in disposing of our lower grades of woo) it would appear to me to be worthwhile to determine the possibility of providing finance and facilities to those developing countries which might be able to process some of our lower grades of wool. I have noticed that recently some countries have been given assistance in the production of synthetics. Of course, in those countries wages are lower than those paid in Australia. 
Costs are particularly important to primary industries at present. Costs represent the other blade of the scissors in the costprice squeeze. As I said a few moments ago. it is difficult to reduce costs, but some attempt must be made to do so, particularly in view of the current importance of our export products. An annual increase in costs of between  2i  per cent and 5 per cent is completely unrealistic, especially at a time when lower prices are being paid for our export commodities. Our growth rate over the last 2 or 3 years has probably been greater than we can afford, lt has placed an enormous strain on our financial and manpower resources and is an additional factor in the inflationary trend. I think the Government should set an example, particularly in public authority spending. 
Treasury Bulletin No. 68 shows that public authority spending has reached very high levels. Expenditure by all public authorities - I take it that that would include Commonwealth, State and local government enterprises - increased from SI, 854m in 1964-65 to $2,535m in 1968-69, and there was a further increase of about 10 per cent to 30th June last. The prospects in this field do not appear to be much better in the coming year. This places a tremendous strain on our resources and the Government must be more selective in choosing the areas of growth that are most important to us. 
I turn now to consider 2 areas in which 1 have been interested in recent years - our tariff and immigration policies. We are told that because of immigration our population increased last year by 185,000. For the coming year it is anticipated that about 180,000 migrants will come to Australia. Only a few years ago - I am not too sure how many- our annual intake through immigration was as low as 120,000. Leading economists say quite openly that our intake through immigration, added to our natural increase, while contributing to economic growth involves tremendous expenditure in the fields of education, housing, transport and health. Because of the high cost of bringing migrants to Australia and providing them with the necessary amenities it is questionable whether they are contributing to our economic growth, and whether we can afford economic growth of this nature. 
On the subject of tariffs, while I do not say that they are a major factor in our cost structure, they are one factor and should be kept under constant review. I am very pleased that over the past, couple of years the procedures adopted by the Tariff Board have been greatly improved in respect of reviews and general protection. A couple of weeks ago  Mr McEwen,  the Minister for Trade and Industry, said that further industries would be reviewed in the near future. Recently the Tariff Board has employed additional staff to assist in that direction, but there is still a great deal of room for improvement. A couple of months ago I contacted the Tariff Board requesting an indication of the number of industries that had not been reviewed in the last 10 years. After the Tariff Board had conducted an investigation its  Deputy Chairman  sent me a reply which I will read to bring home the point. The Board arrived at its decision after taking various matters . into, consideration. The letter states: 
You recently asked me if I could provide infor- mation about the number of industries whose tariff protection has not been reviewed by the Board for many years, lt is difficult to answer your question 1 in this form. This is partly because of the problems of definition, for example, how to define an industry, which would require a lengthy technical explanation which I expect you would prefer to avoid, and partly because the Board's detailed examination of this and related questions is still incomplete. However, a preliminary estimate is that some 75 per cent of highly protected industries have not been the subject of a Tariff Board inquiry within the last 10 years. This -figure of 75 per cent is calculated on the value of output rather than on the number of industries. 1 do not have a corresponding figure for all protected industries since our examination has so far been, concentrated on the highly protected sector. A review of activities having low or medium levels of protection is less urgent than a review of those that are highly protected. 
It seems to me to be rather disturbing that 75 per cent of our highly protected industries have not been reviewed for 10 years. I think it is high time that the Government took measures to see that the Tariff Board has a full complement of members and staff to carry out effective, reviews. The Tariff Board is empowered under the Act to initiate inquiries. It is not essential that references should be made to it by industries or people. I consider that a review of the type I have suggested is of major importance to ascertain whether the protection being given at present is justified. If it is justified, I will be perfectly happy, but only a review will determine whether it is. 1 have mentioned some of the areas in which the Government could bring some relief to the cost structure of primary industries without doing any harm to the national economy. I appreciate the increased contributions to rural industries totalling $71m made by the Government in the Budget. Included in this amount is the sum df $3 Om to be made available to wool growers. I am sure that this will be of great assistance to people in the wool industry worst affected by falling prices, particularly in drought affected areas. In many instances wool growers are facing a crisis. Worthwhile financial assistance is to be given to those people in rural areas who will be forced to update their telephone services. My Party has been working very hard towards this end for a number of years. I congratulate the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  on bringing the matter to fruition. It Will be a tremendous help to people in country areas. 
We must bear in mind that over the years the Government has continued to give assistance to primary industries. It has provided a superphosphate bounty, and has established a wool promotion and research scheme and a vast number of other projects which have been of great help to the industries and for which we are very grateful. Over the years the Government has had a tremendous record of providing assistance to the rural industries and to the national economy. If one contrasts that assistance with Labor's efforts, one gets a picture that demonstrates the difference between the Government's policy and the Labor Party's policy for rural industries. Although I did not count the words somebody did. and 1 am told that the Leader of the Opposition iri the other place  (Mr Whitlam)  outlined Labor's policy for rural industries in 68 words. Except in his amendment, I do not think  Senator Murphy  referred to rural industries. If he did, the reference was only of a minor nature. According to the Press, a few weeks ago the Labor Caucus was evenly divided 34-34 about moving in both Houses an urgency motion condemning the Government for its lack of concern at the plight of primary industries. 
Another matter to which I shall refer but which I do not propose to make an issue is that of law and order. Over the last 8 or 9 months J have attended practically all the big rural meetings in New South Wales. Those who have attended these meetings have been particularly concerned, naturally, about the economic position of and prices in the rural industries. At the conclusion of those meetings many people whom I met for the first time referred to the disruption of industry brought about by strikes. Not only did they mention that but also they were concerned at the contempt of the strikers for the findings of the arbitration system. We cannot have it both ways. Either employer and employee have to accept the findings of arbitration or else the arbitration system will come to an end. That would be a bad thing for all sections of the community. 
Another matter to which 1 refer  -  I am not referring to unionists here - is the complete contempt shown for our judiciary and the powers and functions given to the judiciary by the Parliament. One wonders how long this contempt can be allowed to continue. In Sydney only a few weeks ago we had the spectacle of some people who were being brought before a court marching in with arms raised as a sign of dissent, and disagreement. They said openly that they did not recognise the court and that it could not deal with them. I say most emphatically that we should not condone such contempt. If the community condones such contempt, this will be an attack on the institution of Parliament from which judicial powers stem and which we have long regarded as being part of our democratic way of life. Once people show an increased and continuing contempt for the institution of Parliament and for the judiciary, I am afraid we will be on the way to anarchy. Strikes and contempt for the rule of law strike a body blow at these 2 vital institutions in our system of democracy. Not only are the strikes causing a loss of profitability to industry; also they are affecting employees through loss of wages. 
When there is a crisis at least in a vital section of industry - and I refer particularly to the rural sector - strikes, in the long term, have a serious impact on everybody. I am old enough to know. 1 know enough about the history of our industries to know that in many cases recessions or depressions or whatever they are called have begun because of a fall, recession or depression in the rural industries. The present situation is getting pretty close to that. 1 am not trying to create a fear complex but I know enough about the economy to know that the country is largely dependent for export income on rural industries. Almost 50 per cent of our export income comes from our rural industries. I know the effect that a recession in the rural industries will have on the economy. These matters are of national concern to everybody, irrespective of party and irrespective of government, State or Commonwealth. We should look at these matters very seriously in order that we might uphold those things which are dear to this country and which over the years have made a vital contribution to the economy and the welfare of the nation. 1 appeal to everybody to bear in mind those final words. I support the motion and oppose the amendment. 

Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
To which clause is the honourable senator referring? 
This section applies to a person if - 
a  sickness benefit is payable to the person at a rate fixed having regard to the last preceding section: and 
the Director-General is satisfied that the person requires benefit under this section by reason that he pays rent and is entirely or substantially dependent upon his sickness benefit. 
This proposed section is different from section 30a of the Principal Act in that it is not one of the requirements that the person concerned be single. It could well be that a man and his wife are in receipt of the sickness benefit. Proposed sub-section (2.) of proposed section 112b states: 
Subject to this Part, there is payable to a person to whom this section applied, in addition to his sickness benefit, a supplementary allowance at a rate determined by the Director-General in the particular case being a rate not exceeding $2 per week. 
I raised this matter earlier only to criticise the discretionary powers which are vested in the Director-General. However, T now wish to ask: What is envisaged in the payment of what could be called a rental allowance if the pensioner in question receives a rate which has been determined by the Director-General which does not exceed $2 a week? Will someone paying rent who is entirely or substantially dependent upon his sickness benefit, receive a lesser amount than the $2 a week supplementary assistance? Are we going to have a situation where the Director-General will say that 50c is sufficient in one case and Si is sufficient in another? Are his discretionary powers to be limited to a maximum of $2 a week? The whole point of my argument is that we are placing too much administrative control in the bands of one man. Sub-section (3.) of proposed section 1 12b slates: 
An allowance under this section is payable from a date determined by the Director-General, which may be a date before the date of the determination. 
As with section 30a of the Principal Act, there is no need to make a claim. The only qualification is that the person concerned must be solely dependent upon the sickness benefit and be paying rent. However, although there is no necessity for a claim to be made, it is necessary to make application in order to make the Department aware of the fact that one qualifies for the supplementary allowance. Under section 30a of the Principal Act the DirectorGeneral will grant retrospectivity only to the date of the application. Of course, the Act itself provides that the Director-General has power to go back to the date that the person concerned qualified for the benefit. 1 have mentioned that in relation to the widow's pension the Parliamentary Draftsman has placed a restriction upon how far the Director-General can go back, but he has not placed any restrictions upon the DirectorGeneral in section 30A in order to allow him to go back to any date which he so desires. I ask: What instructions will be given to the Director-General in respect to the payment of the supplementary allowance under this provision? Will the date be set as the date on which the person qualified or a date decided upon by the Director-General, presumably the date when the application was made? 
Parliament intended that he should exercise that power differently from the way in which he would exercise a power under section 68, which relates to the granting of a pension. The phraseology of the 2 clauses is different. A limitation which is omitted from section 30a is placed on the Director-General under section 68. Of course, when this was brought to the attention of the Minister, he justified it by misinterpreting what the then Minister said when he introduced the provision in 1963. This is wrong. The Director-General has the power and there is no right of appeal. He did not authorise payment from an earlier date, although he has power to do so. It was not the intention of the Parliament that he should act in this way. Before clause 8 of the Bill is agreed to, I want to know whether this will apply to those on sickness benefit just as it applied by custom of the department under section 30a. If it does not apply to these people, I feel that I will have no alternative but to vote against it because the principle is wrong. I am against discretionary powers. Powers should be spelt out in the legislation. But in view of the fact that they go right through the Social Services Act- 
Is your request for leave to incorporate this material subject to its being technically possible for the matter to be incorporated in Hansard? 
Order! In accordance with the sessional order relatingto the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
1 ask a question of the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. I refer to the most recent kidnapping incidents in various parts of the world involving members of parliament and people in important diplomatic positions. Does the Government regard these incidents as a form of intimidation and threat to effective constitutional government? If so, will the Government, in co-operation with the States, take immediate action to increase the penalties and take what other action is thought necessary to discourage this most dangerous and inhuman threat to people in responsible positions? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, by stating that figures were released at the week-end giving information about stocks of wool held unsold in some producing countries. Can the Minister give any information as to whether these stocks are larger than usual for this time of the yea,: Can he also advise the Senate of the quantity of wool sold by auction in Australia this selling season to 30th September this year and the number of bales held in brokers' stores to that date, and compare it with the situation at 30th September 1 969? 

Order! 1 think the Minister should get back to the Bill. 
Firstly, I wish to commend the Government for its actions in bringing this legislation before the Parliament. Contrary to what has been said by some speakers today, I believe that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has done a tremendous job in bringing this legislation before the Parliament this session, even though it is the dying stages of the session. I hope that it will receive prompt royal assent and be put into operation as early as possible. I believe that anybody who is associated in any way with the wool industry has regard for the tremendous energy and capacity of the Minister. We must all pay him a tribute for the tremendous work he has done in this regard. 
I have not been present in the chamber for much of the time today, but I have heard some of the Opposition speakers talk about what the industry wants. As one who has been associated with the industry from an organisational point of view over a number of years I believe I can say without qualification that it has never been more united than it is at present. 1 think it is indisputable that its unity will result in the bringing down of worthwhile legislation which will assist in offsetting the disastrous prices which are confronting the industry at present and affecting the economy of this country. 
I supported the last referendum in, 1 think, 1965 because I believed that it would assist in bringing stability into the market. I admit that the referendum issue was controversial, but I do not think that there is much controversy about the present situation I believe that everybody - even those who are not directly associated with the industry - feels that it is essential to have some floor in the market in order to restore confidence in this great industry of ours. I was particularly impressed with the reference of the Minister for Primary Industry to the psychology of the selling of our clip. I wish to quote a paragraph from the second reading speech which he made in the other place. He said: 
Of equal importance is the confidence which a flexible reserve price system could engender in the market as a whole, particularly in the circumstances we are witnessing today. The psychological factors which operate in such circumstances lead buyers to hold off in bidding for fear that their competitors will obtain wool at a lower price later. In this way the decline in prices feeds upon itself. In situations of this nature there is a great need for a strong holder of wool who is able to exercise a restraining influence against these temporary depressive factors. In such a manner a measure of badly needed confidence can be restored to the market. 
In that paragraph the Minister has summed up what I believe is a very important factor in the necessity for bringing this legislation before the Parliament. It is hoped that this legislation and the setting up of the Australian Wool Commission with all that this entails will have some influence upon prices. It is hoped that prices will increase from the present disastrous level. 
I do not propose to go through the various provisions of the legislation because others have already done so. However, I would like to deal with a few matters which I think are important. Firstly, I want to say that I am very glad that the legislation will provide for flexibility, as was pointed out by the Minister in his second reading speech. I believe that flexibility is essential at a time when we ate going through great technological changes in the marketing and processing of wool. But we do not want to be too inflexible in marketing, processing and so on. This is why I would oppose straight out acquisition, which I believe  Senator Wilkinson  said is the policy of the Australian Labor Party. I feel that it would be very danger ous to have an acquisition scheme at this stage. I do not think that there is any movement by the growers themselves within the wool industry for this sort of scheme at present. As I said earlier, we are going through a period of change. An acquisition scheme would not allow us to gain the full benefits which might accrue from the technological changes which are occurring. In this respect I must pay a great tribute to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for the work it has done over the last few years on core testing and fibre measuring. I think we can expect with some confidence that before long wool will be sold by specification. In other words, it will be weighed and core tested on arrival al a store. The brokers will then know that they have so many pounds weight of a certain type of wool. This will allow them to offer wool in quantities of pounds weight rather than on an individual basis. I think that this aspect is tremendously important. 
In my opinion the Government was wise in keeping its options open and in allowing the grower to sell his wool as he chooses. This will allow the private buyers to operate as they have in the past. I believe that this system has much to commend it. A number of well founded organisations operate in Australia as private buyers. Organisations such as Economic Wool Producers Ltd and private buyers will put the Commission on its mettle in ensuring that wool meets competition in all directions and that all the best scientific methods are used. We must keep in mind the importance of having a viable wool industry. I particularly have in mind diversification which would help to a degree if the wool industry were to go downhill. 1 remind honourable senators and people engaged in primary industry that if that should take place, other industries such as the meat and wheat producing industries would in turn be endangered. A viable wool industry is the key to the rural industries of Australia. Confidence must be restored in the rural industries from all angles - for growers, people in country towns who depend on these rural industries, and the lending institutions which have played a tremendous part over the years and are being strained to a degree by the demands made on them because of disastrous prices for wool. 
I think the establishment of the Commission will have some effect in lifting prices, but I would not go so far as to say that it would have a tremendously marked effect. Other aspects must be considered in lifting wool prices even to 35c or 45c per lb as an Australian average. The demand must be increased. The blending of wool with synthetics must be examined in greater depth and in that respect the International Wool Secretariat could play an important part. The IWS and the Government should explore areas in which demand is likely to increase. In a few moments I will cite figures relevant to that issue. They indicate whence increased demand is most likely to come. We must look to the developing countries, particularly in the northern hemisphere. At this stage of development of the less affluent countries, some of them- are not able to afford such amenities as heating in homes and transport as are enjoyed in the more affluent countries. The figures I have on the consumption of wool support that view. 
Earlier this week I asked the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry in the Senate, for information concerning wool stocks held at present. With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate those figures in Hansard. 

<graphic href="046232197010300_62_7.jpg"></graphic>

From those figures it seems that stocks are higher than usual, but not so high as to be a danger to wool's prospects. Honourable senators will note that a considerable amount of wool is held in Australia. The position is a little obscure because the quantities that have not been placed on the market or are held in brokers' stores are not known. There has been a falling off in Australian sales and stocks held at present are higher than normal. However, overall there is not much to be frightened of in respect of world stocks. 
The picture on the consumption side is more heartening. If my assumptions are correct the picture is encouraging. I read in the Press some figures on wool consumption for last year and the year before. They present a hopeful picture. Today I checked them with the Department of Primary Industry, where they originated. Because they are so encouraging I checked to ensure that they are correct. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate the article in Hansard. 
WORLD USING MORE WOOL 
In the 6 months January to June 1970, Australia lifted its  consumption  of virgin wool by 3 per cent to 37 million lb, clean, from 35.8 million lb in the corresponding 6 months of 1969. 
Japan also increased consumption by 3 per cent - from 208.6 million lb scoured, to 215.7 million lb. 
France showed an increase in the period of 2 per cent (148.2 million lb to 151.7 million lb), and Belgium an increase of 1 per cent (48 million lb to 48.3 million lb). 
All other countries listed by the marketing division of the Department of Primary Industry in its latest Wool Notes show decreases in their virgin wool consumption in the relative 6 monthly periods. 
Italy had a decrease of 6 per cent, Netherlands 13 per cent, United Kingdom 11 per cent, United States of America 19 per cent and Germany 8 per cent. 
The latest world consumption figure quoted by the department is 3,531 million lb in 1969 compared with 2,449 million lb in 1968. 
Whilst there has been a slight increase in consumption in a few countries - Australia, Japan, France and Belgium - in other countries consumption has fallen considerably. I refer, for instance, to Italy, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Germany. 
That is so. In those countries people are better able to afford heating in their homes and transport. They do not require as much wool for clothing as previously. That is why we should be trying to sell more wool to the less affluent countries, even to the extent of extending them credit and to negotiating trade agreements and arrangements. If necessary the Commission will be able to negotiate sales of the lower grades of wool which it may not be able to sell to advantage by the auction system. It would be assisted by the low cost factor in processing. There would appear to be some advantage to Australia in that respect. 
The article I have had incorporated in Hansard shows that consumption rose by about 1,100 million lb or by nearly onethird for the year ended December 1969. According to the Department of Primary Industry the calendar year was used for the figures. Because of the bad trading position in Europe at present, and other factors, the rise in wool consumption may have slackened since the figures were taken out. However, they give some hope that the demand is there. The trouble lies with the low prices we are receiving. I think this has been brought about largely through the competition of synthetic fibres. It is tremendously important that we try to stimulate demand in other countries. 
To me it is essential that we restore profitability to the industry. I cannot see any industry operating for any length of time unless profitability is restored, and it can be restored only by lifting the price and creating the demand. Conversely, I have no faith in trying to lift the price, except temporarily of course, by way of subsidy. In the end a subsidy would beat us. The only way in which we can hope to restore the industry is through the activities of the Australian Wool Commission in selling our wool, putting a bottom in the market, being able to offer our wool to the buyers in a better way than we are doing at present and by taking full advantage of the scientific knowledge that we have. We should concentrate on those aspects in our efforts to restore profitability to the industry. 
I do not propose to speak at great length but I should like to refer briefly to 2 or 3 other matters. The first is the need for quality wool. Wool is produced in many areas of the world but it is not of the quality of the wool which can be produced in Australia. The emphasis must be on improving the quality of our wool irrespective of whether it be of the finer type or of the broader type. I think that we can succeed in this regard when the Commission takes over to ensure that the wool is properly classed and prepared, and when we become better accustomed to core testing. 
The second point to which I wish to refer relates to the managerial side of the Commission. As one who has been associated with the industry for a long time I am definitely opposed to grower control. It is right, as is proposed, that there should be at least 2 growers  of  the 7 members of the Commission. We need on the Commission men who have been proved in trade and commerce because the wool industry is Australia's biggest business and I do not think that growers, with perhaps odd exceptions, are sufficiently qualified to run a Commission of the magnitude and importance of the proposed body. 
 You are talking now about a particular firm. 
 There may be some advantage in that but I would want to know about the man who would be selected. The honourable senator has selected a wool broker. Perhaps we may want a wool broker. However, I would like to look at that aspect before committing myself. World trade is of tremendous importance and only men of experience can give the best help to the Commission in this regard. This is big business and you need people who have a knowledge of shipping and international trade. I would not spell out who the other members of the Commission would be but I would urge that the Commission not be grower controlled, one reason being that pressure from the growers would be too strong and to the disadvantage of the industry. I have lived a long time with the industry and I know that there would always be pressure on those who came from grower organisations. In saying that I am not speaking in any derogatory way of the growers. I have been associated with them for many years and although they have wonderful qualities I think they generally lack experience in this regard. 
I refer now to  Sir John  Crawford, the man whom the Minister said was of tremendous help to the industry. In my opinion a better man could not have been selected to give advice. He was associated closely with the Australian Wool Industry Conference. Not only has he an exceptional background in the wool industry but he also is intensely interested in it and has assisted it greatly over the years. 
I very much regret that the Australian Wool Commission will not have power to negotiate directly in the matter of shipping rates. I have spoken on this subject in this place on more than one occasion. I am not at all satisfied that the Government's involvement in international shipping and conference lines has been in the interests of the wool growers. I direct attention to the report of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes. We were not required to deal specifically with the cost of shipments of wool but I do not think that the trend 1 have mentioned has been beneficial to the wool growers. 
I am even more convinced of that now than I was a couple of years ago. I think the Commission should have been empowered to negotiate the shipping rates which would affect the price of wool when sold at a price inclusive of cost, insurance and freight, in order to gam the greatest advantage. I congratulate the Government on the establishment of the Australian Wool Commission. I am confident that it will bring stability into the industry in the future and set the machinery in motion to take advantage of the new procedures which are likely to be used in the selling of our clip in the next few years. 
The question before the Chair is: 'That the request be agreed to'. 

Order! To what item is the honourable senator referring? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In sub-clause (1.), paragraph (a), leave out from day to day, or'. 
After paragraph (b) of sub-clause (1.) insert the following paragraph: (ba) If the Commission buys the wool at the appropriate reserve price it will make arrangements so that the grower whose wool is bought is paid within fourteen days; and' 
At the end of paragraph (c) of sub-clause (1.) add 'at the best possible price'. 
Clause 19 deals in a very detailed way with the flexible reserve price scheme. This feature of the Bill has attracted a tremendous amount of interest and criticism from wool growers in many parts of Australia, particularly in Western Australia about which 1 can speak with some knowledge. Only this morning I was contacted by a section of growers in Western Australia who informed me that they had taken considerable exception to the flexible reserve price scheme and that they had conveyed their disquiet to the executive of the wool section of the Farmers Union last Thursday or early on Friday morning after the terms of the Bill were made known when it was passed in the other place. I believe that the executive of the wool section accepted the criticisms which came from many sections of the industry in Western Australia and that it has expressed, by resolution, an objection to the flexible reserve price scheme. That is its business. I cannot do anything about that. Although I am a member of the Farmers Union, I have nothing to do with the wool section. 
I believe that, we have to look at the difficulties of the reserve price scheme as set out in the Bill,It was without any knowledge of a meeting that was to be held in Perth that our amendments were put last Friday. I shall deal with the first amendment. 
Clause 19 states: (1.) The flexible reserve price scheme operated by the Commission shall be a scheme under which: 
from day to day. or as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary, reserve prices for the various types of wool being offered for sale at auction are determined by or on  behalf of the Commission, having regard to the bidding at recent auctions and to all other relevant information available to the Commission; 
Honourable senators will note that the clause commences with the words 'from day to day, or as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary'. Obviously the important words in the clause are the words 'from day to day, or'. This means that there can be an alteration of the reserve price every day. Depending on the information that the Commission had at its disposal, it could vary this price from day to day. I do not think that is what the Minister had in mind, because in his second reading speech he said: 
Under the scheme,  reserve prices for the various types of wool offered at auction would be determined daily, or at less frequent intervals. 
That is not what the Bill says. The Bill says 'from day to day. or as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary'. The Minister means not only from clay to day but probably from hour to hour, if it became necessary because a mistake had been made, the price could be varied. It is quite obvious that mistakes can occur. I quite appreciate that it might be necessary to change the reserve price 1 hour after if had been determined because of an error which has crept into some computer calculations.. Therefore, the Commission should have the right to revise and change its reserve price. I have no quarrel with that proposition. 
What my Party and I are objecting to is the inclusion of the words 'from day to day, or'. All that is needed there would he as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary'. What else could be needed? There is no need to insert 'from day to day, or', which would otherwise be implied. We think that the only sensible way to approach this is to make the Bill as clear and as straightforward as possible. The Commission should be given all the power that is necessary to meet the difficulties that may arise in one case or another so that it can vary the price as frequently as necessary. To include 'from day to day. or' is unnecessary. This amendment seeks to delete those words. 
I deal now wilh the second amendment. It states: 
After paragraph (b) of sub-clause (1.) insert the following paragraph: (ba) If the Commission buys the wool at the appropriate reserve price it will make arrangements so that the grower whose wool is bought is paid within 14 days; and' 
This seems to be a very important insertion. In this clause there is no mention of who is to be paid or when he is to be paid. The whole situation is left in the dark. We feel that there should be written into the Bill a clause which not only empowers but directs the Commission to pay to the grower the amount to which he is entitled for the product which he has presented for sale. The 14 days would give the Commission time to pay. Under the present scheme payment for wool is normally made within 16 days, but 14 days is a normal business arrangement. That is why we have included 14 days, lt  is  to be paid at  the  appropriate reserve price. We  Chink  that this is a very important inclusion to  be  made. While I am dealing with this amendment, I refer also to  paragraph  (b), which states, in part:   . . if . . . the Commission is prepared to buy the wool al  the  . appropriate reserve price . 
This means that the Commission does not have to buy the wool. It may please itself. The matter is left quite up  in  the air. There is nothing definite about any arrangement into which  the  Commission has to enter. Is this what the Bill really means? It would appear  to  mc to mean that the Commission is  not  able to exercise authority to any great degree. Very little protection is afforded the grower whose  wool  is up for sale. It would be only  if  the bid did not meet the price which was put on the wool that the Commission would be prepared to buy. 
The next amendment  seeks  the insertion of the words 'at the best possible price' at the end of paragraph (c) of clause 19(1). The clause would then read:  the Commission, as and when it thinks' expedient, re-offers for sale at auction, or otherwise disposes of, wool acquired by it under the scheme at the best possible price. 
I think it is quite reasonable to say that the Commission will always endeavour to obtain the best possible price, but it is not being directed to do so. Let us imagine the situation where the Commission has stockpiled a considerable quantity of wool which it felt at the time of purchase it would be able to sell on the world market at an improved price and which deteriorated rather than appreciated in price. The Commission could look at the position and say: Perhaps it would be a good thing to get out from under and sell as much of this wool as we can. We want to try to clear our floor, so we will take whatever we can'. This may not be the . best possible price, but it will be a price which is accepted in order to clear stocks. The Commission is dealing with a commodity which is the lifeblood of the wool growers. It is their main source of income. Should we agree to it being disposed of at a price which is not stipulated? The Opposition believes that the words 'at the best possible price' should be added to paragraph (c) of clause 19, so that the Commission will have an actual instruction as to what it should do. 
I hope that these perfectly reasonable and logical amendments will commend themselves to the Minister and to the chamber. I believe that if they, are accepted they will help to give some stability to the flexible price scheme, which is a scheme about which the Opposition has considerable reservations. 

 - Senator Toohey could refer to this under the heading 'Administrative'. 
As you know  Mr Tester's  home was designed by my Department and was erected in 1957 under the supervision of Departmental officers. The specifications for the home provided for a damp proof coursing consisting of cement mortar with a damp-proofing admixture. 1 understand thu use of this type of damp-proof coursing was normal building practice in South Australia at the time and indeed was used by my Department for approximately 20 years prior to 1966. 
This type of damp-proof coursing does not provide a complete barrier to the passage of moisture but restricts it to an amount which under normal circumstances is not detrimental. It  has a disadvantage however in thai the efficacy of the moisture suffers if the admixture is used either in excess of or less than iti the quantities recommended by Ihe manufacturers. The dampproof coursing may also fail as a result of an abnormally damp condition in ihe sub-soil beneath portion of the home. There has been only a small number of War Service homes where the dampproofing coursing has failed but because of instances of 'breaking down' of this type of damp coursing, the major home lending authorities in South Australia, including the Director of War Sen-ice Homes, decided in 1366 that a membrane type of damp-proof coursing should be used in addition to the admixture in the construction of all future homes financed by the lending authorities concerned. This requirement is now set out in the Acceptable Standards of Construction booklet issued jointly by the major lending authorities. 
Evidence of rising dampness in  Mr Tester's  home was first noted by a Departmental officer during the course of a periodical inspection of the properly on 16th July 1969. A subsequent inspection by the Department's Chief Architect confirmed the presence of rising dampness of a relatively minor nature in portion of the external leaf of the southern and western walling and also al the base of the front porch brick pier. Some fretting of mortar joints is taking place. There is no evidence of any dampness at the base of the inner walling. The only remedial action considered necessary is for the affected mortar joints to be raked out and repointed  iti damp proof mortar. The estimated cost of the remedial work is $45. 
I note that  Mr Tester  has been advised by a building contractor to remove the affected outer (and inner, if. necessary) brick work and rebuild with new bricks using damp proof mortar. My Department would recommend similar work where rising dampness has led to a serious deterioration in the base walling of the home. In the case of  Mr Tester's  home, however, there is evidence of only relatively minor fretting at mortar joints in portion of the external base walling. When relatively minor rising dampness occurs in the exterior wall it does nol follow that the inner wall would bc similarly affected. After a careful inspection of  Mr Tester's  home, the Department's Chief Architect is firmly of the opinion that on present indications, the raking out and repointing  of the fretted joints with a damp proof mortar would prevent further deterioration, and that the work suggested by the building contractor is unwarranted. 
The letter went on to say in effect that in view of the relatively small cost involved the Department could not see its way clear to do anything about it. 
There are 2 facts here which should be brought forward. One is that the person concerned was not a private building contractor but a building expert, who, I understand, does not do contract work himself at all.  His  opinion was that the work required major alterations, the minimum cost of which would be in the vicinity of $1,000. On the other hand, the 
Division's argument was that all that is required is something of a relatively minor nature which involves an expenditure of $45. I would like to know what anybody could get for $45 in the building trade today if somebody else had to do the work. However, this is all beside the point. 
The point that really emerges from this matter and which has led me to think that the Ministers reply is unsatisfactory is that in this case there is a divergence of opinion between people who are supposed to be experts in this field. On the one hand there are the people in the War Service Homes Division whose job it is to endeavour to see that these things do not occur and to assess the costs involved if they do occur. On the other hand there is the person in South Australia from whom  Mr Tester  sought advice who is probably more experienced in his field than any other authority in South Australia that one might care to name. Even in the letter there are implied admissions that in similar circumstances there could have been deterioration or situations in which major repairs would have had to be effected. I think that the present position is highly unsatisfactory particularly if it is left at the point where on the one hand the Division refuses to accept responsibility and on the other hand an extremely well qualified person suggests that there is a wide area of responsibility involving a considerable degree of expense. I ask the Minister to have another look at this matter and if necessary to seek a third opinion front an independent authority so that something can be done about the injustice which has been occasioned to the person involved in this matter. 
I think any honourable senator would agree that my proposition is fair. This matter should not bc left as it stands. I know that there is a tendency, perhaps understandable, for any instrumentality to try to get out of any suggested responsibility at the least possible cost. This is only natural. I suppose this is to be expected but on the one hand we have the Division with all the assets and facilities at its disposal and on the other hand we have the person involved whose only stake in the matter is the amount which he has put into .his war service home. As a person who has served his country I think he deserves. a far better response than the one I received from the 
Minister. 1 take- this opportunity to register my protest and I express ' the' hope that the Minister will 'have another look at this matter. ' 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Would you quote the division and item numbers? 
The Chair is not to know when a request may be moved. It is not for me to say when a request is to be moved. It may be moved at any time. 
Order!  Senator Cavanagh,  what is your point of order? 
Question put: 
That the  question  be  now put. 
Order!  Senator Cavanagh,  will you nominate what Division you are discussing? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry by saying that under the price averaging plan introduced by the now defunct Australian Wool Marketing Corporation for the 1970-71 wool selling season, wool acquired by the Corporation was to be paid for in two 6-monthly periods, August-December and JanuaryJune. The first payment was to be 60 per cent of the price at which wool was acquired and the second payment was to be 40 per cent, less handling and selling costs. Can the Minister advise the Senate when growers who marketed their wool in the period August-December 1970 will receive their second payment from the Australian Wool Commission under the price averaging plan? 
It is agreed that the 3 amendments be taken together? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Because of the unprofitability, deep concern and lack of confidence about the future among wool growers and those dependent on a prosperous wool industry, will the Prime Minister, as a matter of urgency, instruct officers of his Department to bring together representatives of the Department of Primary Industry, the Department of Trade and Industry, the International Wool Secretariat and other competent authorities, in an effort to ascertain the reasons for the marked decline in wool prices, and report to the Prime Minister and later to Parliament? 
The honourable senator suggests that having regard to the present state of the wool industry and the low price for wool I make representations to the Prime Minister to bring together representatives of the Department of Primary Industry, the Department of Trade and Industry and the Wool Secretariat to study the situation. I shall make representations to the Prime Minister on the basis of this question. I would add for my own part that I believe there is a ready acceptance all over Australia and throughout the world that the price of wool is very low and represents a very serious threat to our wool industry and to the whole of our economy which has a relationship with that industry. I should think that at all levels of the various departments and organisations mentioned by the honourable senator there would be in process a continuing study of the problems mentioned by him. I presume that the implication in his question is that by coming together in conclave representatives of those bodies could evolve some new situation. I shall refer this question to the Prime Minister. 
1 support the Bill which is now before the Senate believing that the questions of flood mitigation and soil conservation, which must be considered together, are of great importance. 1 accept what certain scientists have said to the effect that the 7 inches to 9 inches top soil of any country might be regarded as the capital of that country because if we were to lose it by not looking after it as we should, by not playing our part as primary producers and by not caring for those people who live in the towns who also are affected by floods, we would not be playing our part in making this country great. Perhaps in a small way we are playing our part by concerning ourselves with the conservation of soil and by helping those producers who from time to time might be affected by floods. I regard it as an obligation on each generation to do likewise to ensure that this part of our national heritage is safeguarded. 
I believe that the Bill demonstrates all that is good in our 3 tiers of government. Here we have the local authority, the State government and the Commonwealth Government working together in the interests of the community, in the interests of our national heritage and for the preservation of the soil which is of tremendous importance to any country which is so largely dependent on agriculture as is Australia. As I understand it. the local authority carried out its job in the first instance by directing attention to the need for flood mitigation measures to be taken on the rivers concerned. The State Government has directed attention to this need. It does the survey work and later carries out. or assists in carrying out, the work that is necessary. Then the Commonwealth comes in with financial assistance varying from a $1 for $1 basis to a $3 for Si basis as the case may be. In this instance there is a total involvement of, I understand, about $22m of which the State will find S9m and the Commonwealth S9m. 
Before coming into the chamber I heard in my room  Senator Fitzgerald's  statement that the former honourable member for Cowper,  Mr McGuren,  played a prominent part in bringing before the Parliament or the relevant authorities of the day the need for the work in question. Being fairminded, f acknowledge thai he played a part in seeing that this was done, but 1 think that we must be fair and remember that others were involved in this work too. I should like to mention particularly the present honourable member for Cowper,  Mr Ian  Robinson, because it must not be forgotten that he was the State member for the area from 1953 to, 1 think, 1963 and was largely instrumental in establishing the flood mitigation councils. In other words, he was associated with the first steps to be taken to direct attention to the need for flood mitigation and for the preparation of plans covering work carried out at a later stage in which  Mr McGuren  played a part, lt was  Mr Robinson  who was largely instrumental in bring together the councils concerned, particularly on the coast, so that, as a concerted body, they could make their submissions to the State Government with a view not only to having this work carried out but also to making representations to the Commonwealth Government which, as I have mentioned, was interested in this project and in looking after something of such tremendous importance to our agricultural and other industries. As I have mentioned, the Commonwealth has helped to provide the necessary finance. 
It must not be forgotten also that the former Minister for Conservation in New South Wales,  Mr Beale,  took a tremendous interest in conservation, not only because he was the Minister for Conservation but also because he had such a high regard for the need for flood mitigation and, of course, water conservation which I believe go hand in hand to a degree because sometimes, by providing for water conservation, we thereby unconsciously contribute to flood mitigation. Therefore I pay my tribute to  Mr Robinson  and to  Mr Beale  for the part they have played in this field. 
Unfortunately I did not see  Senator Fitzgerald's  proposed amendment until I came into the chamber and heard  Senator McManus  refer to it and say that the Australian Democratic Labor Party would support it. The project covered by the Bill is a separate project and we should get on with it. I do not know whether it is proposed to delay that work. 
 I was not sure. I did not hear that part. 
 That could well be so. The Bill before us has a specific object in view. Therefore I think that we should get on with the job. What will happen if this amendment is carried? It could have the effect at least of delaying the work. I think that this matter is of such importance that we should get on with the job and have the flood mitigation work commenced. I support the Bill and oppose the amendment. 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, by stating that it is reported that the Minister for Customs and Excise has said that because of the cancellation of the bylaw permitting duty free entry of a wide range of imported truck parts those parts will be subject to a duty rate ranging from 27  i  per cent to 35 per cent. My question is: Does the Minister agree with those who claim that this increased protection will mean a higher manufacturing cost for commercial vehicles and, if so, place a further cost burden on our hard-pressed rural industries and industry generally? Did the Minister for Trade and Industry give an assurance in 1965 that the effects of this by-law would be referred to the Tariff Board in 5 years time? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Tariff Board will be instructed to review the effects of these newly opened duties when they come into operation on 1st October? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I preface my remarks by saying that about 4 months ago, during a visit to Australia by representatives of the United States Sheep Producers Association, a consultative committee comprising representatives of the Australian and New Zealand Meat Boards and the United States Sheep Producers Association was formed, with the object of increasing prime lamb exports to the United States. Can the Minister give the Senate any information about the activities of the consultative committee and what progress, if any, has been made? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that when the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes was taking evidence, overseas shipping interests were stating that containerisation and other improved methods of wool handling would prevent increases in wool freights for at feast a few years? As sea freight costs determined by the Australia-United Kingdom-Europe Conference, in which the Government participates, have risen substantially since those statements were made and further sharp increases are threatened because of inflation and industrial disputes, what steps does the Government propose to take to prevent this further burden being imposed on the already hard pressed wool industry? ls the Government prepared to assist purchasers of our wool to find alternative shipping arrangements outside the Conference? Is the Government, which operates its own ships in the Australia-Japan Conference, satisfied that present wool freights are the best obtainable? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Amendment - by leave - withdrawn. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Order! I ask the honourable senator to address his remarks to the Chair. 
The Australian Labor Party says thatthe primary right is the right for people to demonstrate and the right of free assembly, not the rights of those people who object to it. 
If  Senator Sim  -still thinks that that means what he said then I despair of being able to convince him. This is central to our argument and something which we have said throughout this debate. What should come first in a democracy is the right of peaceful assembly, the right to dissent. Any limitation of that right should come second. We do not withdraw from that stand for one moment. To read into that attitude any suggestion that we condone or support violence or do not oppose violence is misrepresentation of language.  Senator 
McManus has told us over and over again that his office was invaded by demonstrators. In some way or other, it appears to me, he claims that we are responsible for that because we are supposed to condone it. I repeat, as  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Wheeldon  have repeated, and as every  speaker  from the Opposition in this debate has repeated, that we do not condone violence. We oppose violence. We claim that there are plenty of laws to deal with violence. Does  Senator McManus  claim that the violent demonstrators at his office were not dealt with according to law? 1 asked in my second reading speech to be told what has happened in this country in respect of demonstrations that no laws can be found to deal with the demonstrators. Nobody has yet come up with an answer to that question.  Senator Greenwood  has not told us what has happened in this country, what threats there have been to law and order that could not have been dealt with by existing laws. 
In  Senator Greenwood's  last contribution to this debate he said that he was indebted to  Senator McManus  for his contribution. We may ask why he was indebted to the irrelevant and tendentious contribution of  Senator McManus.  Its only purpose was to draw a red herring across this debate by suggesting that the Labor Party is condoning and supporting violence, and by implication, when  Senator Greenwood  expresses his indebtedness for that contribution, he is lending some colour to the baseless allegation made by  Senator McManus.  I think that was a contribution unworthy of  Senator Greenwood  and 1 would welcome from him an unequivocal statement that nothing that has come from this side of the chamber constitutes support for or condonation of violence. 
Is it thewishoftheCommitteetotakethe remainder of the Bill clause by clause? 
Clause  11  (Additional offences on premises in a Territory). 
Do you still wish to deal with sub-clauses (2.) and (3.) together? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and/or the Treasurer. In the forthcoming Budget discussions will the Government give consideration to some form of financial assistance to merino sheep stud breeders, many of whom are faced with financial ruin which, if not averted, will bring about a marked decline in numbers and quality of stud sheep, because of a marked decline in wool prices and huge increases in costs? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn the pre Budget period there are discussions in relation to the preparation of the Budget. They cover the whole structure of government including Commonwealth-State relations, social service benefits, repatriation benefits and primary industry. In fact, every function of government comes under review during Budget considerations. All I can do is refer the honourable senator's question to the Treasurer. 

 - Mr President, I should like to thank those honourable senators who have spoken this morning for the references which they have made to me during my sojourn in the Senate. I had hoped that somebody else would have risen following you,  Sir. I  acknowledge that I have been allowed to rise to speak because I hold the office of  Chairman  of Committees. Having regard to the longer terms of office of other honourable senators and the tremendous contributions which they have made, I thought that some other honourable senators would have risen to speak after you,  Sir. May  I be forgiven for rising at this stage, acknowledging the greater contributions which other honourable senators have made. 
I have always felt honoured and pleased to represent the Australian Country Party in the Senate, and I shall always remember with a great deal of pleasure and satisfaction this period in my life when I have been a member of the Senate. I should like to thank you particularly,  Mr President,  for the encouragement and advice which you have given to me at all times. It has proved valuable. I am sure that other Chairmen of Committees have had this same experience. I join with other honourable senators who have spoken this morning about your contribution to the Senate as the Presiding Officer. I know that we all regard you with a great deal of affection and acknowledge the contribution which you have made as the Presiding Officer in the Senate. 
I should like to refer briefly to the great changes which have taken place in the Senate. I refer to the committee system. Whilst I do not wish to enlarge on this question, I think that history will prove that this has been a most important period in the history of the Senate. I believe that the Senate will play a still more important role in the institution of the Parliament under our bicameral system. I know that we work under a party system, but despite the different political philosophies which we might have, I like to feel - I am sure it exists - that there is a great deal of good will between those who sit on the right of the Chair and those who sit on the left of the Chair. I leave this chamber thinking and believing that this is so. I hope that it is so. I am sure that this state of affairs has been brought about, to a large degree, by the establishment of committees on which we work together as a small group and get to know and appreciate the human qualities of members of the Parliament. 
Reference has been made to the rural industries. It is one of my great regrets that I leave the Senate at a time when the rural industries are facing unprecedented difficulties, which are acknowledged by the Parliament, and I trust that ways and means will be found to assist them in the crisis that confronts them today. But knowing the men on the land, the great incentive that they have and their great determination to overcome difficulties, I am sure that in the future we shall see once again our rural industries making a contribution to the Australian economy. 
I should like also to thank all honourable senators for their friendship, particularly those honourable senators who sit on my left. I also thank the officers of the Senate. I acknowledge the part which they have played, and I thank them and other members of the staff in the Senate. I trust that the Senate will continue to be a very effective chamber, upholding the very best traditions of the institution of Parliament In my judgment, this is far more important than the party system to which each of us contributes to the best of his ability. We should remember that the public outside watches us, as a democratic institution, very carefully. I hope that we shall be worthy of the trust that the public puts in us and that we shall be able to uphold the democratic system which governs our country at present. To my mind, the alternative is something which we cannot think about and which we should hope would never come about. 
I thank all honourable senators for the friendship that they have given to me. I wish them well, whether they remain as senators or whether, like myself, they are leaving. I hope that, on the occasions when I return, I shall have the pleasure of meeting at least most of them. I thank you for your kind comments. 
