At the outset may I say that I appreciate very sincerely the assistance and courtesy extended to me on entering this Senate. I am not unmindful of the fact that I took my seat here under somewhat unusual circumstances in which tradition had been broken by the New South Wales Government. Having in mind those unusual circumstances I appreciate very sincerely indeed the assistance and courtesy extended to me by the  President  of the Senate, by all members of the Senate, and by the Senate officers and by the Senate staff. It has been very reassuring to me and I entered the Senate a very pleased person. I entered here as a lone wolf following the resignation of the illustrious  Senator Murphy  on his elevation to the High Court of Australia. Now I feel that I am a member of the Senate well received by all honourable senators, and their courtesy is appreciated to the full. 
I consider it fitting to make my maiden speech in the Senate at a time when the Appropriation Bills, which involve the Department of Urban and Regional Development and its activities with the Albury-Wodonga growth complex, are being considered. I am concerned, as are aldermen and councillors throughout the land, and citizens generally, that within recent years the authority of local government has been usurped in a gradual process by boards, corporations, commissions and authorities. I am concerned also about a new concept of regionalism coming into being, on both a Federal and a State basis, whereby councils within regions will be prevented from carrying out their rightful and previously accepted functions. Accordingly I request that honourable senators meeting in this House of review closely examine the legislation which could have the effect of further intruding upon the autonomy of local government. 
Honourable senators may well pose the question that 1 justify the request. My reply in part would date back to the time of Federation. At that time Australian colonies agreed to join in the creation of the Commonwealth of Australia as from 1 January 1901. They consciously surrendered a number of sovereign powers, including control of customs and excise duties and other functions of national significance including defence, immigration, currency and coinage. The Constitution provided that during the period of 10 years after the establishment of the Commonwealth, and thereafter until the Parliament otherwise provided, of the net revenue of the Commonwealth from duties of customs and excise not more than one-fourth was to be applied annually by the Commonwealth to its expenditure and the balance, in accordance with the Constitution, was to be paid to the several 
States or applied towards the payment of interest on debts of the several States taken over by the Commonwealth. The Constitution further provided that the Parliament may grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thought fit. Whilst not spelling it out, there was an implied condition that local government would be the creature of the States, as was evidenced in the Local Government Act of 1 902 in relation to the State of New South Wales. 
In devising these clauses the founders of the Australian Federation did not pretend to be providing an eternal solution to the problems of Federal-State financial relations. They were only effecting a compromise which was the price of Federation. Perceptive minds, however, foresaw that the superior power of Commonwealth could in due course erode, if not destroy, the independence of the States. This was seen as likely to ensue from the power of the Commonwealth to impose taxation generally and from the provisions of the Constitution which gave Commonwealth legislation supremacy over State laws. Alfred Deakin summed up the position as he saw it by saying: 
As the power of the purse in  Geat  Britain established by degrees the authority of the Commons, it will ultimately establish in Australia the authority of the Commonwealth. 
The major step towards ultimate domination by the Commonwealth of the States' financial power came with the uniform tax scheme of 1942, which the High Court then upheld as a wartime measure and 15 years later again upheld under peacetime powers. This scheme made it politically impracticable for the States to levy income tax and has created the position that the Commonwealth has the monopoly of income tax' revenues. Over the years there have been divergent views expressed about the merits and justice of a financial system which envisages the collection of revenue by one government and its expenditure by others. Regardless of its political colour, no government in Canberra since the Second World War has been prepared to relinquish its major financial power and certainly not its control over income tax. There are, of course, imperfections in the Constitution which have been revealed from time to time. There has always been the cry of the States that they are not getting a fair share of funds from the Commonwealth and from local government, as a creature of the State, that it is being neglected financially. 
It is evident that the financial implications between all forms of government were clearly defined and all that was necessary to make Federation work successfully was to invoke a fair and reasonable formula to provide a full degree of equity between the 3 tiers of government. Despite all the differences regarding the allocation of funds, the operations of governments since Federation have been carried out successfully. There is no doubt the national government has and should be recognised as having, as its name implies, the sovereignty. The dignity of the States has been preserved and local government has been acknowledged both authoritively and financially as a partner in the trinity of government. If these accepted principles of parliamentary functioning are maintained, the document of Federation will be the success it was intended to be. 
I like to look at things in reality, rather than in the abstract, and one must admit that Australia in a comparatively short space of time has become a major power, not only self sufficient to support itself but able to assist the weaker nations materially. It is therefore evident that the political system as decreed by Federation has thus far succeeded and this success is due in no small measure, despite Party differences, to the fact that each of the 3 governments has been prepared to acknowledge the rights of each other. All Australian Governments through the years have acted in accordance with democratic principles encouraging a way of life acceptable to a democracy as opposed to totalitarian rule. 
In recent years, however, there has been an intrusion on the accepted functions of local government, by both the national and State governments, as a result of which citizens are becoming apprehensive. They see a bureaucracy unfolding quite contrary to the principles of democracy in which responsible governments have delegated their authority to boards, commissions, corporations and authorities with power to supersede local government authority. We must not lose sight of the fact that councils are elected by the people. It is only within recent years that the stature of local government has been weakened as a result of legislation by both the national and State governments. Let me say quite categorically that restricting the authority of local government is undesirable and I think unacceptable to the Australian people. Permit me to quote some instances of this restriction which have come under my notice. 
Before expressing my thoughts, however, let me make it abundantly clear that I will do all in my power to assist in the development of the Albury-Wodonga complex and I trust that citizens in the area will do likewise. This growth development has been sponsored by responsible governments as a pilot scheme and is a most ambitious plan in that 2 States are involved with the national Government to advance the accelerated development of Albury, New South Wales, and Wodonga, Victoria. The scheme could bring with it constitutional problems and certainly will bring industrial problems as the laws of the 2 States are so different. The Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation came into being about 2 years ago and just prior to that time, when the Cities Commission was interested, an officer of the Commission prevailed on the New South Wales State Planning Authority, who in turn recommended to the Minister for Local Government in New South Wales to intervene, by requiring the Albury City Council to withdraw its approval for the building of 5 development projects estimated to cost $ 16m. 
The approvals had been previously granted by the Albury Council on the recommendation of its town planner who had been in close collaboration with the State Planning Authority over a period from 3 to 6 months. It is interesting to note Council's approval for all 5 developments was granted in strict conformity with the Minister's own gazetted town plan which a subsequent government inquiry revealed. The projects included 2 regional shopping complexes, a supermarket and 2 substantial office blocks. When the 'all clear' signal to proceed was eventually given, some 6 months later, the economic climate had worsened to such an extent that only one of the projects- the supermarket- was proceeded with. This blatant trespass on the authority of local government in an area which had just been proclaimed as a growth centre was entirely unjustified and proved costly to the applicants concerned. It revealed the shortcomings of bureaucratic action. 
The fact that the Milk Board decreed that milk produced in Victoria could not be sold in New South Wales or, in other words, milk produced in Wodonga could not be sold in Albury- 3 miles distant- is another instance of undue interference towards the domain of local government. Is it not ludicrous that when the national Government and the State governments of New South Wales and Victoria have combined to develop the Albury-Wodonga growth complex as one entity, an appointed government board should encroach on local government authority in this way and probably in contravention of section 92. The Board's action has been challenged and I understand a decision on the matter will soon be handed down by the High Court. There are several other instances of a similar character to justify my request to honourable senators to acknowledge at all times that local government is an integral part of government. Indeed the national and State governments cannot function successfully without a virile local government. Make no error about that fact. 
I am not opposed to change for the sake of opposing it. Indeed I realise that history is strewn with the wreckage of institutions which and individuals who have failed to adapt themselves to changing circumstances. However, I consider that basic fundamentals have been thrown overboard in deciding to develop an area as a means of encouraging decentralisation. To an envisaged population of 300 000 at the turn of the century this is decentralisation in reverse. The building up of Albury-Wodonga will create another centralised area. The building of Monarto will create another centralised area and will not serve the case of decentralisation. I certainly cannot be accused of being parochial as I have been closely associated with local government in Albury for half a century. But I speak from a national rather than a local viewpoint, when in all humility I suggest that the cause of decentralisation would be far better served had government policy been to fund the development of say 30 or 40 provincial cities and main towns in Australia within the structure of local government. I discussed this matter with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  5lA  years ago. Make no error about it, it was as a result of the representations made to  Mr Whitlam  at that time- he was not Prime Minister then- that the idea of the creation of a growth centre in that area was given birth. It has proceeded along lines entirely contrary to the best conception of creating growth centres generally. This third arm of government is well geared to undertake a program of accelerated natural growth development. Further Canberras will not be built. There is something unique about Canberra. 
The growth development in these other centres must be natural growth development which includes industries, commerce and all the things that go with development, and should not create another area of public servants or another area of outstanding beauty which does not provide the necessary things in order that there may be a progressive and self-maintained area. We find, as I see it, that the development of this country is proceeding along the wrong lines. 
Local government councils possess elected policy makers and are required by law to have qualified officers in every realm of council administration. It can therefore be realised that the setting up of corporations further to develop prosperous areas is a costly duplication of experts in the field of urban development. When I say costly, I mean costly. The development in these main country centres of Australia in the last decade has been outstanding. There has been a growth development as a result of a virile local government within all those areas. That virile development could have been continued in my area in exactly the same way as happened those few years ago. What do we find? We find that local government is being cast aside, that corporations are being formed, that authorities are being formed and that boards are being created to ride roughshod over the elected people of local government. 
We have a democratic system whereby it is necessary that elected people should have the say over appointed people. I say that in all due deference to the fact that I have been appointed to this Senate in extraordinary circumstances. It is necessary that all forms of government should realise that people who are elected by the public should have the last say. I have consistently taken the stand and discussed with members of Parliament my thoughts on the issue of justice to elected people. I believe that the cause of decentralisation will be better served by assisting to build several cities and towns throughout Australia to a population of, say, from 60 000 people to 80 000 people, rather than build isolated cities with a population of 300 000. We are continually hearing of the disadvantages of the metropolis. It is my opinion that the building up of future cities with a big concentration of population is unwise. To protect the environment and to satisfy the people there is no substitute for natural growth development. People cannot be forced to go to areas but they can be enticed to go there if they are decent areas in which to live and there is a steady progress which will be an incentive for them to go there. 
Let me say something concerning federalism and regionalism. Within the last 2 decades functioning of local government has taken over a wider spectrum and has expanded into the field of regionalism. It is 30 years since the Local Government Association of New South Wales included in its charter the need for regionalism within the structure of local government. The community of interest between the peoples of urban areas and adjoining non-urban areas was such that the functioning of local government in areas of mutual concern should be on a regional basis. It is therefore understandable that local government was the agency best fitted to be entrusted with the distribution of electricity in New South Wales per medium of the county council system. I am very proud of the part that I played in helping local government to be entrusted with the distribution of electricity. I suppose it was about 25 years ago that local government lost the authority for the generation of electricity, and rightly so because it was uneconomic. But it was not uneconomic for local government to retain the right of distribution of electricity per medium of the county council system. I prevailed on the then Government of New South Wales to see to it that local government was not overlooked in this very important local government function. We have today a very successful system of distribution of electricity under the auspices of local government. 
There are 34 county councils in the State and five all purpose councils distributing electricity. The Murray River County Council, of which I am a foundation member and still serving, traverses the Murray River from Albury to Wentworth, a distance of 380 miles- 612 kilometresand has 12 constituent councils. It is interesting to note that New South Wales is the only State in the Commonwealth in which local government is the distributing agency. I understand that there is only one other province in the world in which local government is distributing electricity. It is also understandable that regional libraries should be established under the banner of local government. I have been privileged to be Chairman of the Upper Murray Regional Library based at Albury since its inception 18 years ago. This Regional Library, which is one of many throughout the Commonwealth sponsored by local government, comprises 14 local government authorities- eight in New South Wales and six in Victoria. I feel it incumbent upon me to stress the ability of councils within regions to amalgamate on matters of mutual interest, realising that we have ready made regional councils within the structure of local governmentcouncils well geared and acceptable to the people, the members of which are elected and not merely appointed. I am firmly of the opinion that regions can be best served through the instrumentality of local government and I do not see the need for the encroachment of national or State governments in this field. Regional councils under the banner of local government provide a tonic to those who think we are over-governed. 
I refer now to finance. It is admitted that local government in New South Wales is collecting its revenue mainly from a rating system devised in 1902. It is evident that a new formula will have to be introduced. The functions of local governing councils have changed greatly in the last 20 years. Those functions were once limited to the construction of roads, kerbs and gutters, removal of garbage, street lighting and drainage. Today they extend, or residents want them to be extended, into fields of welfare by providing facilities and amenities to all residents of all ages. This has always seemed to me to justify councils having wider resources of revenue than the levy of rates on land values, but State governments have been slow to recognise that need and have kept councils to their narrow and historic revenue base. Nor have such governments been overgenerous in the grants and subsidies paid to local government and indeed, as is well known, most government-owned property is completely exempt from the levy of local rates. 
Local government has chafed for many years under the dual restrictions of a limited revenue basis and inadequate grants and subsidies. In 1971 when relief was sought through a conference of State Ministers for local government at which were recorded the serious financial position of local government, the belief that additional financial resources were essential and that annual reimbursement grants from the Commonwealth should be increased to include an element of contribution to local government finances, the Commonwealth authorities took the view that any special allocation of Commonwealth moneys for local governing purposes could be met only at the expense of an off-setting reduction in State general revenue grants. The States were naturally not prepared to agree to this, nor were they prepared to take action to extend the revenue base of local governing councils, in spite of recommendations from a royal commission favouring such a course. Do honourable senators see how local government has been neglected by the governments which it was intended that local governments should assist? 
It is against this background that the policies of the present Australian Government should be viewed. Those policies were dictated by a desire to make local government a general partner in the federal system and to redress the inequalities suffered by areas which have the greatest need and which often have the least adequate revenue resources. The status of partnership was to involve at least 3 elements: First, giving local government a voice on the Loan Council and in the convention for the revision of the Australian Constitution; secondly, the amendment of the Constitution so that grants of federal funds could be made direct to local government bodies and not through the States; and thirdly, the extension of the functions of the Grants Commission so that it could recommend equalisation and other grants to local government bodies as well as to the States. The Constitutional Convention has not yet progressed to a stage of any formal recommendations and the States have not been receptive to the suggestion that local government bodies be represented on the Loan Council and the referendum to amend the Constitution has failed, chiefly I suppose, because its effect was misunderstood. 
It is regretted that more than one matter was dealt with at that referendum because if ever a section of the referendum should have succeeded it was that section which proposed that the federal Government should be given power to make funds available to local government directly for its own use. The fact of the matter is that local government desires to remain a full partner in the trinity of government and to accept its responsibilities and obligations in this changing world. But to do so effectively it must receive its share of the national pool of taxation. 
I conclude where I started in seeking the support of honourable senators to do all in their power to assist local government to maintain its place in the trinity of government. With the passage of time and changing conditions there must of necessity be modifications in government administration. But with respect, I suggest the principles outlined by the wise men of Federation were sound and should be retained together with the retention of authority within the partnership of government as implied at the time of Federation. Australians are a happy and contented people and local government, that form of government which is closest to the people, has played a major part in bringing about this contentment. The continuation of its full functioning must be preserved in the best interests of this divinely blessed country. I count on honourable senators to play a part in this fulfilment. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Douglas  McClelland) adjourned. 

 - Mr President, no doubt the matter before the Senate will be dealt with on Party lines. In view of the fact that I will oppose the motion, I think that it is incumbent upon me to express my opinion on this matter and to give the reasons why I take this stand. Today we have had a discussion extending over  Vh  hours. I have listened intently to what has been said by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. As I have no Party affiliation I believe that I should give the reasons why I will oppose this motion. The motion reads: 
That the Senate censures the Minister for Foreign Affairs for knowingly misleading the Senate in relation to the contents of cables sent by the Prime Minister to the Australian Ambassadors in Saigon and Hanoi. 
It is a matter of interpretation as to whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  misled the Senate. In my opinion the motion is a harsh one. It challenges the honesty of purpose of a Minister of the Crown and is being judged, I trust, by people of deep conscience as a result of their unfettered thinking. As I see it, these matters should not be dealt with on Party lines. The debate has centred around 2 cables connected with a 30-year war. During the term of that war many references and adverse comments have been made by members of all Parties in this Parliament about the government in power at a particular time. To me it is strange that near the end of hostilities we find that 2 cables should be the basis for the discussion which has ensued today. 
A motion of censure concerned with exactly the same matter was moved in the House of Representatives today. As is known, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was the architect of the cables which were sent. In his defence today the Prime Minister said that the cables and letters could not be looked at in isolation. He said that he had not departed from the truth and had not wittingly misled the Parliament. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said precisely the same thing in other words in his reply to the motion which was moved this afternoon. A motion against the Prime Minister was moved in the House of Representatives today and was defeated. Therefore, it is ludicrous to think that a motion of censure concerned with the same matter should be moved in the Senate against the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he was not the architect of the cables. I believe that it would be a ludicrous state of affairs if this motion were carried. It would not do this Parliament any credit. 
It is natural that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should support his Prime Minister because, perhaps unfortunately, that is a legacy of the Party system. When a Party system is in vogue, as it is here, in matters such as this when the integrity of a Minister is at stake- it should be the policy of the Party concerned that is at stake- I think it is necessary that we should throw overboard our own desire to stick to Party principles. For those reasons I will oppose the motion. I do not think that it would do the Australian public any good if this motion were to be carried. It creates an instability in the people's thinking when the Parliament meets to deal with matters of national importance and members on one side of the Parliament vote one way and members on the other side vote another way. It is a shocking state of affairs. It is a good state of affairs to think that there is an independent member or two in this Parliament. I sincerely trust that this motion will be defeated because I do not think that it will serve any good purpose. 
We have not heard a great deal about the motion in the discussion which has taken place. Honourable senators have abused one another for what has happened during the years of the Vietnam war. This debate has proceeded so far for 3% hours and we have many other important matters to consider. I close on this point: I sincerely trust that some benefit will come from this discussion and that there will be an awareness by members of Parliament generally and particularly by honourable senators of the necessity for people who have control of the affairs of their country to get together on important matters to ensure that the subversive element which is threatening Australia is cast aside and to create a vigilance whereby our democratic system will be protected to the full. Those are the reasons why I will oppose the motion. 
I second the amendment,  Mr President.  It is my opinion that a senator of this House made a normal request and it would appear that this request has been refused. I think it is entirely wrong that this request should be refused in view of the first hearing of this matter, as a result of which this Senate took certain action. At that time reference was made by  Senator Hall  to the fact that there could have been other breaches of the Constitution and he stated that they should be heard. I think  Senator Hall  has gone about this matter in the right way and that his request should have been accepted and the normal action taken. It is purely a matter of formality. Unfortunately, his request has not been viewed in that light. I consider a direction from this Senate should be given and can be given if this amendment is carried. 
I do not wish to see this Bill delayed any further. I would like to think that the Government would accept the suggestion of the Opposition that there be inserted in the Bill a protection clause in the interests of a person who has not been correctly treated. I would appeal to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  at this late stage to include the last clause in the Opposition's amendment so that the Bill can be passed, and be passed unanimously. This legislation is important legislation. If there is a further delay, the aim of the legislation will be defeated. The people who will benefit are in dire straits at present. There should be no further delay. In legislation such as this there should be a full degree of equity applying at all times. What do we find? In reply to a question the Minister said that the Government's contribution in this matter will not take into account donations already made by the public. We must remember that a large amount of the money subscribed by the general public went to the Government. I know that the quite substantial amount from my area was sent by me direct to the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I think that all funds so collected should have been handled by the Commonwealth. I know that a large amount was handled by the Commonwealth and was sent to the Darwin folk. 
We could reach a stage where people have benefited considerably from donations by citizens, but a person who is aggrieved as a result of the Government's contribution and who had not been a recipient of money from any of the other funds being deprived of the right of appeal. Let me repeat that in these matters there must be a full degree of equity between the people who have been affected. The legislation is very important legislation. It should not be delayed any further. Even if the Minister is not prepared to accept the Opposition's suggestion about appeals, I will still support the Bill, but I would like it to contain that safeguard as to appeals. Each person whom we are trying to assist should be assisted to get his rights. That is all the amendment providing for appeals amounts to. 
I am somewhat surprised at the tenor of this debate. Originally when this matter came before the Senate it was stated by  Senator Cotton,  on behalf of the Opposition, that he would be prepared to pass the Supply Bills but he desired information from the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  to justify such action. We now have received certain information from the Treasurer. I do not think it is as complete as it might have been. I think however some matters mentioned will assist to bring about the expenditure of the extra funds sought. According to the report of the Treasurer, the extra amount of $ 120m sought is barely sufficient to compare with the $60m extra sought on the previous occasion to which reference was made. It is very dangerous to compare one year with another. No doubt these estimates were prepared by departmental officers as a result of legislation passed by this House. 
I am not going to throw all the blame for this position on the Government. The Government and the Opposition are equally to blame for the state of affairs which exists in this regard and which was mentioned by  Senator Hall. Senator Hall  used words to this effect: 'We decide to take legislative action to do certain things and then decide afterwards how we are to pay for them'. That is putting the cart before the horse. We find today that we are having a party discussion on a matter which should not be dealt with on party lines. I have no hesitation in saying that in many respects we are expanding at an inappropriate time. We are expanding at the height of an inflationary period, the worst we have ever known. Not only the Government but also the Opposition and this Parliament generally are responsible for a good part of that expansion. This Parliament and not only the Government is responsible for legislation in connection with increased pensions. There has been no opposition to the Government in connection with the regional and urban development which has taken place, at a most inappropriate time, but it has to be paid for. I could give many other instances of this having taken place. 
I know it is suggested by the Opposition that the Medibank scheme is hidden in this legislation. Possibly the Government's insurance scheme is hidden here also. But if such is the case it does not matter because when all is said and done there is a complete safeguard available in the accountability that has to be made of such expenditure. After all these figures are only an estimate based on legislation passed and legislation envisaged for the future. The amounts will not be made available until the decision of this Parliament permits of it. Why is it when estimates are prepared along normal lines that we find this debate reaching the dimensions it has reached? When all is said and done the full requirements of our legislation have been carried out in presenting these Supply Bills. The only thing at stake is the quantum and we have a safeguard in that regard. I would like to see these matters discussed purely and simply on nonparty lines. 
I am not going to blame the Government for the inflation we have today. People generally, governments and individuals, are responsible for the state of affairs which applies. The greed of people generally is bringing about this state of affairs. There is misunderstanding between capital and labour. This attitude is not doing this country any good. We as a Parliament should be meeting as one entity, having thrown aside all party lines, with a view to endeavouring to rectify the position. This Parliament, by increasing its own members' salaries, by increasing pensions, and other welfare benefits and by introducing costly legislation has aggravated the trend of inflation. Provision has to be made in order to get away from that trend. Let us view these things in their right light. 
I think the Treasurer has erred in not being more precise in his reply. He has treated this matter, in the main, as a generality. He mentioned two or three matters with not a great money content and left unsaid other things. I think Medibank and the Government's insurance office are included in his thinking. I think he should have said so but, be that as it may, the funds which are being sought for expenditure will not be used until such time as legislation permits. Therefore I do not think there should have been the lengthy discussion which has taken place on this matter. It should be approached in a more affable manner. Then we could come to a decision acceptable to all. 

 - Mr President, I have listened with interest to this debate and I am most grateful to those who have made a contribution to what is a very serious matter. The Government has been very active for some time now and has presented some excellent legislation. Nevertheless, I think it has been over-zealous in presenting the legislation under discussion. I think that this Bill is unwise- unwise in the light of what has been said by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber who are in favour of this legislation. It is significant that a Racial Discrimination Bill has only now reached the Senate after having been first introduced in November 1973. The period of time which has elapsed indicates very fully the complexity of the matter. 
In my opinion, Australia is not in the throes of racial discrimination; and I emphasise that.  Senator Cavanagh  has just admitted that that is so. He said that there is a pocket of discrimination; he said it is a pocket of racial discrimination. I am not prepared to admit that there is that pocket of racial discrimination. There is a pocket of discrimination, and there is a difference between normal discrimination and racial discrimination. I say that Australia is not in the throes of racial discrimination for these reasons: Accepted Government policy has decreed that Australia is not in the throes of racial discrimination. Let me add further to that by saying that the policy of the Federal Government in this connection has been accepted by the States and has been accepted very fully by local governments. People from other lands have been made to feel very welcome, and indeed Australianborn people with racial distinctions have been made to feel very welcome, provided they have been willing to accept the welcome extended to them. 
The Senate may be interested to know that I played a leading part in the removal of naturalisation ceremonies from the courts of law into the chambers of local government. I did that after long experience with people from other lands whose plight I could see. They came from lands of oppression and tyranny and when they got into the formal atmosphere of a court they thought it was the old times back again. That prompted me, when I was President of the Local Government Association in New South Wales, to prevail upon local governments throughout the Commonwealth to make an effort to have naturalisation ceremonies removed from the courts of law into the chambers of the people. That move has been an outstanding success, and I am sure that on all occasions when naturalisation ceremonies have been held what has happened in my council chambers has happened in council chambers throughout Australia. The people being naturalised have been thanked for accepting Australia as their new home. They have been thanked for bringing to this land the cultures of their homelands. They have been thanked for creating a very decent blending of the old with the new. They have been assured that there is no difference between those who are Australian by birth and those who are Australian by naturalisation. They have been told that they are entitled to all the privileges that every other citizen enjoys, and indeed that they are entitled to subscribe to the obligations that all other citizens are prepared to accept. It has been pointed out to them that the efforts of their forebears in making Australia the country that it is today have been very much appreciated. They have been assured that they have come to a country which welcomes them wholeheartedly. As I see it, that state of affairs applies universally in Australia today. 
I have watched the progress of these people. I have naturalised about 1500 people in Albury, and our sister city of Wodonga has naturalised more than that number because the immigration centre is in the Wodonga shire. That understanding of people from other countries was introduced in the first instance through the wonderful immigration policy of the national Government, and both Labor and Liberal Party governments are due for credit in that respect. That policy has been accepted by the State governments, and more particularly by local governments. As a result we find that we have a happy and contented people. These people have fitted into our society. They have kept their own ethnic groups, and rightly so, because they have within them some wonderful friendships but by the same token they have been prepared to be assimilated into the overall pattern of the folk in the various districts. So we do not have that racial discrimination of which we have heard so much tonight. There will be isolated cases, but on an overall basis we do not have racial discrimination in our area. 
I was very pleased when on one occasion, after a naturalisation ceremony, a person came to me and said: 'You are not only the mayor of Albury but you are the uncrowned king of the Greeks'. I accepted it as a privilege to have been referred to in that way because the Greeks in my community are very wonderful citizens. In fact, all the people from other lands who live in my community are very wonderful citizens. They have played their part in society nobly and well, and indeed they are an affluent part of the society. But because of that isolated pocket of discrimination referred to by  Senator Cavanagh,  we have presented to us legislation which in my humble opinion is going to be very difficult to implement. 
I am not aware of blatant racial discrimination, but I am fully aware of many acts of discrimination. That is the danger of this legislation. As a result of our democratic rights, we are a race which is inclined to discriminate. There is discrimination galore in this chamber. There is discrimination against people because of their likes and dislikes for music, the arts and everything else that one could imagine. There is discrimination against men who wear their hair long. There is discrimination all along the line. Draw this thing to its natural conclusion: People who are of a different race and who are dissatisfied with their lot in life, could quite likely present a case to the Commissioner because they were perhaps unsuccessful in obtaining employment. A person could think: 'I did not get this employment because of racial discrimination'. In ail probability he did not get the employment because he did not have the qualifications. The prospective employer probably did not desire to employ a person with long hair, and this person had long hair. There could have been a multitude of reasons he was not successful. That person, of a different racial origin, would come to the conclusion: 'I was not employed because I was of a different race'. 
The Commissioner would receive all day, every day complaints from people who had been discriminated against, but not by reason of their race. That is the whole story. It is not one bit of good introducing legislation which cannot be satisfactorily implemented. I have been somewhat amazed at the discussion tonight. It is evident that the Opposition has told the Government that it is prepared to agree to the legislation. But there is a proviso. The only legislation which the Opposition will be prepared to accept will be a brand new cast of legislation. Nothing in the present legislation is acceptable to the Opposition, according to what has been said tonight. So the implementation of this Bill will be very difficult. Let me read the main clause, the one which I think should not be included because I do not think it can be implemented. Clause 9 states:  lt is unlawful for a person to do any act involving a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin which has the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, of any human right or fundamental freedom in the political, economic, social, cultural or any other field of public life. 
That is all embracing. I am not opposed to what has been said tonight. If there were racial discrimination I would do my best, not only as a legislator but as a person, to see that it was stopped. It is not fair that there should be racial discrimination. We say to people: 'Come among us. Assist us to develop our area'. The least we can do in return is to assist them to assist us. That has happened. It is evident in the pioneers of the various country districts. In the main the people in country districts, the people on the land, have origins in other lands. The German race is very prominent in that connection in my area. They have set an example. The example of their forebears has been followed by the descendants. We have a wonderful community in Australia. I honestly think that this legislation could be the means of insulting that section of the new races we have in Australia because it implies racial discrimination in an area in which I think it does not exist. This is very dangerous legislation. It implies a state of affairs that does not exist. Nothing that I have heard tonight allows me to think that it does exist. 
-What did he say? He said that we are a racial community. He did not say that there was racial discrimination. He said that we are a racial community and I know we are. 
-I made a note of his speech. We are a racial community. I refer to what I said a moment ago about the pioneers who developed this land. They were people of other races. They soon became very good Australians. So we have a state of affairs today in which people who have played a part in our society will get the idea that there is racial discrimination in Australia. It is a racial discrimination of which 99 per cent of our community are not aware. That 99 per cent are people of other races. What do we find? We find that legislation which is repugnant to a law abiding section of the community is not wise. For that reason, I am not prepared to support it. 
-I have not seen it. You speak for yourselves. I will speak for myself. Tonight the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs referred to a case in which action was taken by a member of the police force. It is evident that if citizens are in the hands of the police they are being accused of a misdemeanour. In all probability what happened to those folk would have happened to people with white skins. It is very difficult to make comparisons in these small, individual cases. We must ask ourselves this question: Has racial discrimination in Australia reached a point at which legislation is necessary? I give the answer in the negative. 
I oppose the redistribution in New South Wales. I do so on entirely different lines from the Opposition which has been expressed and the comments which have been made from both sides of the chamber. I take the stand that this proposal envisages an increased electoral strength in the city and a reduced electoral strength in the country. I do not think it is good or wholesome that such should be the case. New South Wales has been divided into  1 1  regions by the State Government. Nine of those regions are in country areas, and two are in the metropolitan area. It is evident that from the point of view of development, the State Government maintains that the development should be in accordance with those areas- with the productivity of those areas and in accordance with the populations of those areas. I feel that what is good enough from a development point of view on a State basis should be good enough also as a measuring rod in connection with electoral matters. 
It has been stated by all speakers, I think, that the sole consideration seems to be the advantage or disadvantage to parties. They have looked into the crystal ball, but I do not think they have taken into account the ever changing population. I do not think that they have taken into account the swinging voter. I do not think that they have taken into account new names that may appear on the roll. In all probability their calculations are wrong. But that is not the basis on which this discussion should take place. The amending electoral legislation which was passed by this Parliament states: 
In making any proposed distribution of a State into Divisions, the Distribution Commissioners shall give due consideration, in relation to each proposed Division, to- 
community of interests within the Division, including economic, social and regional interests; 
means of communication and travel within the Division; 
the trend of population changes within the State; 
the physical features of the Division; and 
existing boundaries of Divisions and Subdivisions, 
It is interesting to note that that amending legislation which was presented to the Parliament in July  1974  omitted some very important sections from the previous legislation. It omitted the following phrases: 'means of communication and travel within the Division, with special reference to disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance'; 'the density or sparsity of population of the Division'; and 'the area of the Division'. They are crucial points. I do not know why they were taken out of the previous legislation, but it is unfortunate that they were. It has set the Distribution Commissioners an unenviable task. The Commissioners, acting within the briefing of this amended legislation, have brought down certain recommendations. I have no hesitation in saying that the Commissioners have no doubt acted with an honesty of purpose and in good faith, but their briefing was incomplete. It should have included not only the principle on which emphasis has been placed, that is, one vote one value, but also the questions of area and the productivity of an area which is of vital concern in the light of our export trade. The briefing should also have included reference to the question of distance. I think that if that had been the case we would have probably received a different recommendation. 
I do not think we would have received, for instance, the recommendation that the electorate of Riverina should be abolished. I live close to the electorate of Riverina. I live in a very prosperous area. From a productivity point of view it is to be regretted that the electorate of Riverina is to be abolished. It is not in the best interests of Australia. It is also not in the best interests of Australia if at any time we find that city controlthe city does exert control from a voting point of view- supersedes country control. Let us make no error about the fact that a successful country area means a successful Australia. We are still a rural producing nation. I am sure that overall country electors take a greater interest in the matter we are discussing tonight than do city electors. Last week and again today my mailbag has been filled with letters from people from all over New South Wales, but particularly from the electorates of Riverina, Farrer and Hume- areas with which I am closely associated- asking me to do my part in an endeavour not to have this proposal carried into effect. 
-There is no need to get hot under the collar about this matter. I appreciate very sincerely the points of view expressed by Government senators and by Opposition senators. But as one who is on the outside looking in, as it were, as one who is somewhat of a novice in these matters and as one who knows nothing whatever about gerrymandering, I should like to state quite conclusively that it is essential that the values of the country area should not be lost sight of; that the electorates in the country area should not be altered, and indeed should be increased from a voting point of view. 
I rise to add my contribution to this debate, which, up to this point, has in the main followed party lines. I feel that it is incumbent upon me to make my comments in the light of the position as I see it as an Independent. Might I say in the first instance that although I have received a very full mail box over the last week- I have received in excess of 500 telegrams, I have met many deputations and I have received many letters- I have not received any letter of abuse. I have received advice and requests of me to give full consideration to the Bill which is before the House. That I have endeavoured to do. 
In the main I am prepared to support the Bill. I say that with some reservations because I have not as yet been informed- the debate tonight has not provided the necessary information on this matter, which is very important- as to what is the difference in the cost structure between the Government's proposal and the percentage increase involved in the Opposition's proposal. I have heard much in this debate about the necessity for restraint in the wages area and I have heard much said from time to time about the necessity for restraint in the cost structure area, but nothing has happened. Indeed the Senate was given the opportunity quite recently of showing restraint in relation to salary increases but it did not do so when it granted increases to members of Parliament and public servants. Surely we are not going to see a state of affairs in which there will be restraint in connection with superannuation. I make my position very plain. That is the last area in which I would like to see restraint introduced. 
The present Superannuation Fund came into being in 1922. There have been some amendments to it since then. Most of them have been of a quite minor nature. This year a mandate was given to specialists in the field to devise a new superannuation scheme for presentation to the Parliament. That scheme has been worked out on an actuarial basis. In the main I am prepared to accept it. I look upon those who have done the work as being specialists in the field. But I repeat that I have some reservations. I sincerely trust that in the Committee stages of this debate it will be possible for me and for the Senate generally to be advised of the difference between the cost of the Government's proposal and the cost of the Opposition's proposal. In this year of 1975 I desire to see a liberal superannuation scheme affected. 
This matter has come before the Senate after a deal of review. The superannuation scheme is a scheme in which the employee and the employer have a part to play. Under the superannuation scheme there is a necessity for the employee to make his contributions, for the employer to set aside funds to meet the requirements on maturity and for the investment of the contributor's funds. So, in a period in which we have a very heavy borrowing government, the money that is contributed by the contributors is an important factor in the country's economy. I emphasise that it is incumbent upon any employer, particularly a government employer, to make certain that at the end of a man's working life security will be provided to stand him in a good stead. 
In my early days in the private sector I was a strong believer in life assurance. I happened to start my own account at the age of 17 years. By the time I was 23 years of age I had put every spare penny I had into life assurance with a view to retiring at the age of 60 years. I scrimped and saved, with my wife's assistance, to do it. But at the age of 60 years, on the maturing of those policies, there had been such a change in the economic position and such a change in the value of the pound that I had no hope of retiring. I would not like to see the employees of the Government- the public servants who mean so much to the prosperity of our country- being placed in the position of having to retire without a sufficient retiring allowance. 
There is no doubting the fact that there was an implied condition attached to the terms of reference of the specialists who reported on the superannuation scheme that the Government generally desired a more liberal scheme to be brought into operation. The position is that we have such a scheme before us tonight. I know that some amendments are to be moved to the scheme in very good faith by the Opposition. I am prepared to support the Opposition in some of those amendments. But, let me repeat, I would like to be in the position of knowing the differences between the cost of the 2 schemes. We are building a Public Service kingdom and we have to make provision for it. The Public Service kingdom is being built not by the Government alone but by the Parliament. We are today governmentally a community of boards, corporations, authorities and commissions. We have found that we have to have a much larger scheme than was the case a couple of decades ago or even a decade ago. 
Reference has been made to the conditions that apply in the superannuation scheme of the Public Service and that of the private sector. As one who is closely associated with the private sector let me say that its superannuation schemes are reviewed from time to time. In most of the larger companies throughout this country one &gt; finds that only the executives are covered but they are covered on a very liberal basis. I think I am right in saying that a little less than 50 per cent of members of our working community are covered by superannuation schemes. 
Much has been said about inflation. This Bill must not be considered in isolation from inflation. Let us analyse our current national economic situation. What do we find? We are always saying that we have a very high standard of living, and that is very evident, but that high standard of living has to be paid for. What do we find? We find that high salaries and wages are being paid. We find that professional people charge very high fees. We find that trade and commerce are charging very much increased costs. We find that we pay very heavy taxes. We find that we have liberal pensions, that we pay high land rates and that the price of our amusements is high. Generally people are encouraged to spend their money on the totalisator and, in the State of New South Wales, on poker machines. 
As a result it is necessary that a very high rate of superannuation should be provided for a person when he retires. The contributor's share of that superannuation is paid for by the person concerned during his lifetime. That is the current state of affairs, and it is going to remain with us for all time. Just as throughout the last 30 years people have found that insurance policies on maturity were not worth as much as they had expected, we will find that the superannuation payment made at the end of an employee's working life will not be sufficient to accord with the times unless we adopt a very liberal approach to this scheme at the beginning. So we find that it is quite a problem. I was very pleased to hear  Senator Wright  make reference to the rural sector. That is the only sector in the community which is currently disadvantaged, and it is unfortunate that that is the case. 
In dealing with matters such as a superannuation scheme, I think the position of the rural sector should be made very clear. Unfortunately, that does not appear to be the case. The Public Servise has a vast responsibility and is engaged in a wide spectrum of services. One realises the value of the Public Service when there is a breakdown in the provision of those services. It has been suggested in some quarters that a government has no right to give its Public Service conditions of employment which the community could not afford to give itself, for example, under a national superannuation scheme. Public servants have a special employee-employer relationship with the Australian Government which does not apply to the rest of the community and they have also well organised unions. Their terms of employment- leave, superannuation, security, fringe benefits- must be of such a level overall that the Government can attract sufficient skilled staff to carry out its functions and maintain satisfactory employer-employee relations. This requires establishing approximate parity with conditions offered by other major employers. It seems clear that the existing superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees has, in fact, always matched at least the major private schemes in its level of benefits. The actuaries have said that in their report, and that comment which has been made by the actuaries is a very potent: one. The only private schemes offering better benefits would be the small ones for top executives. I happen to be associated with a public company which has a very favourable superannuation scheme for its executives. Indeed, business can provide such schemes, provided it has executives of ability and executives who are going to remain with the firm for the length of time they are required. 
I wish to refer now to a document which has been handed to me by a member of the Opposition. It is as well that I should point out at this stage those advantages of the new scheme which are being supported by the Opposition and which also are part of the Bill introduced by the Government. The Opposition supports a uniform contribution of 5 per cent of salary for all members. That is a major step forward. The Opposition also supports these advantages of the new scheme: The option for retirement between the ages of 60 to 65 to continue under the new scheme with pension adjusted proportionately; the option to take part of the benefit as a lump sum introduced in the new scheme- I understand that is encouraged by the Opposition- comparable benefits provided for members of the Provident Fund; improved benefits for temporary public servants; improved benefits for widowers, children and orphans; and greatly simplified administration. 
I conclude by again saying that when we are considering the Bill in Committee I would very much appreciate being put in a position of being informed. I have endeavoured without success to get information, but it may be that those members of the Government or those members of the Opposition who have taken a keen interest in discussing these Bills will be in a position to point out what the Government scheme will mean in terms of cost and what the amended scheme as suggested by the Opposition will mean in terms of cost. I will be quite satisfied provided that the present scheme is greatly uplifted to meet the current position. Until those figures are available it is very difficult to make an accurate assessment. 
I intend to support this Opposition amendment. I think there is a vast difference between this amendment and the first and third amendments. The first and third amendments, which I did not support, concerned the rights of contributors. I support this amendment because I consider it to be fair and reasonable. It does not create inequality among contributors and is most desirable in the light of the present economic climate. 
Question put: 
That amendment No. 91 be agreed to. 
It would appear that the die is cast but I would like to make my final comment on this matter. In my opinion the effort of the Opposition to reduce the cost of this scheme is taking place in the wrong field. When the superannuation scheme was introduced emphasis was placed on the optional position in relation to retirement at 60 or 65 years of age. It was at that time evidently thought that this option should be given. Some 50 years later when we are working at an all-time high level of pressure and when people desire a longer retirement than was desired previously, a move now is taking place whereby the relief from the overall expenditure, which I think has some merit, is taking place in the wrong field. I will be presumptious enough to be somewhat biblically poetic and to say: 
The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be four-score years. 
It would appear that there is a necessity for people in the last 20 years of their normal life span to be able to live in retirement with a security for which they have justly paid. 
I would have far preferred to have seen not such a liberal arrangement in connection with contributions than to take away what I maintain is a necessary component of any superannuation or insurance scheme. As I see it, we must endeavour to retain equity between the subscribers. In all the hundreds of representations that have been made to me by organisations and individuals not only by correspondence but also verbally, it would appear that the main concern is that retirement at 60 years of age should remain in this Bill. Those people are part of an agreement. It is an agreement between 2 parties each of which has his rights because each is subscribing to it. In view of that I think we should take cognisance of what those people have had to say in this connection. The scheme is a generous one. I do not think there is any doubt about that. I think it needs to be a generous scheme. Any pruning of it should not take place in the field that is now proposed in this amendment. Therefore on this particular amendment I intend to vote with the Government. 
We have reached an unfortunate impasse in connection with this matter. Some little time ago Parliament decided that the Australian Public Service superannuation scheme should be upgraded. I think that was the unanimous opinion of all members on both sides of the House. Actuaries were called in and made certain recommendations. Those recommendations were submitted to the Parliament by the Government in legislative form and were not acceptable to the Opposition. Now the Opposition has been informed by the Government that its thoughts and ideas are not acceptable to the Government. Legislation which public servants en masse decided to support in order to bring their superannuation scheme up to 1975 standards has been thrown overboard. The people whom this Parliament generally wanted to assist fairly and squarely are now placed in the position where their claims have come to a standstill and the present scheme will remain in being. I do not give either side of the House very much credit for the way in which this matter has been handled. 
-Senator Cavanagh knows how I voted when this matter was before the House a week ago. The Government has turned down amendments made to this Bill by the Opposition, but it does not give the Opposition sufficient time to have another look at the matter. It was decided to upgrade the pension schemes for public servants, but this has not been done and as a result there will be a deal of discord amongst people in whom we have the greatest faith. The Public Service of this country is a wonderful service indeed. We will not enjoy the confidence of public servants when they learn that the Bill has not been passed and both parties have come to a standstill whereby nothing can be done. 
When this matter was before the Parliament last week I supported the Government generally and more particularly in 2 important phases of the legislation. I supported the retention of retirement at 60 years of age, which was going to cost the Government a lot of money- and so it should have. I supported the Government also in the suggestion that the amounts payable to widows should be increased. I supported the Opposition on 2 minor amendments which did not matter a great deal. We now find that a scheme which came into being in 1922 and which has been amended in very slight manner since then is not good enough in 1975. The Parliament generally has decided that it was not good enough by causing an inquiry to be held and calling in actuaries to make a summary of the position without perhaps telling those actuaries where the improvements should be made. We have now come to an impasse, which is not in the best interests of government generally and which is certainly a retrograde step as far as the public servants are concerned. I maintain that the amendments which were put to the Parliament were not fair. The original recommendation by the actuaries as submitted by the Government was perhaps unduly fair; I do not know about that. But surely a happy medium could have been reached in advance of what the amendments provide. 
When I spoke on this matter before- I maintain that position now- I laid emphasis on the point that what we have before us in connection with the optional retiring ages of 60 and 65 years is a repudiation of policy. I have said before that my mail box has been filled with letters on this subject. I have had several such letters since then. What has been stated tonight by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  agrees with many of the examples which have been sent to me. There is a real disquiet amongst the people who were considering retiring at the age of 60 years. I maintain that the accepted age of retirement in this year, 1975, is 60 years. If there were an optional consideration - 
-That is all very well, but some people are old at 50 years of age and others are young at 70 years of age. The fact that I am a member of this chamber has nothing whatsoever to do with this subject. I say without reservation -  (Government supporters interjecting)- 

 - Senator McLaren can speak up if he so desires. 
-The position from my point of view is very clear. If when this scheme came into being in 1922 there was optional retirement at 60 years which many people accepted, that provision should not be removed at this time because it is much more important now that people who desire to retire at 60 years should be able to do so. Previously I have said that our years are three-score and ten and if by reason of strength they be four-score, those people who desire to spend the last 20 years of their normal lives in retirement should be entitled to do so. That is one section of the amendments to the Bill to which I have objected strongly. In view of the circumstances I am not prepared to repudiate a policy which has been in existence for all that time. It may interest the Government to know that I intend to support the Bill. 1 supported it a week ago and I am again going to support it. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  I call  Senator Bunton. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Yes, I rule that  Senator Wriedt  was speaking to the amendment. Therefore I call  Senator Bunton. 
-I shall support the amendment. I think it is somewhat unfortunate that the motion is worded as it is and does not provide that there shall be 3 members from the Government and 3 members from the Opposition. The Government is in power and the Liberal Party, the National Country Party,  Senator Steele  Hall 's Party and I, as an Independent, are on the Opposition benches. That position can be altered at any time. If there is an alteration I am certain that we would find the Government advancing a different viewpoint. If the LiberalCountry Party Opposition were in government we would find that the Australian Labor Party- I think rightly- would require to have the same number of representatives. In the other place the numbers are not so very different and there is equal representation from that place on the Convention. 
As was mentioned by  Senator Withers,  the matter which came down in respect of the new parliament house made provision for the Opposition and the Government to have equal representation. I would like to think that if this amendment were carried it would be carried in a different form so as to make provision for representation by 3 members from the Government and 3 members from the Opposition. If the motion were carried in that form I would like to think that the Opposition would give consideration to accepting the outstanding qualifications of  Senator Steele  Hall and perhaps including him amongst its representatives. It has been mentioned that this splinter Party as far as this Senate is concerned - 
-Perhaps I have used the wrong word. It has been mentioned that  Senator Steele  Hall is in exactly the same position as my one-man Party. Where is the difference between  Senator Steele  Hall and me? I am a one-man Party in the Senate just as  Senator Steele  Hall is a one-man Party in the Senate. In view of those circumstances, and to maintain the equity which I think should be applied, I intend to vote for the amendment. 
The discussion today and again tonight has reached remarkable proportions. It is very evident, judging from what has been said today and tonight, that the calling of an extraordinary meeting may be necessary. This afternoon we had the spectacle of the Opposition making accusations against the Government and, in turn, the Government making accusations against the Opposition. After a debate lasting 3 hours no solution was arrived at. 
I am in a beautiful position. This is just the occasion when an Independent is wanted. 
-When my friends opposite finish I will be prepared to continue my remarks,  Mr President.  After the Senate rises the  President  can call an extraordinary meeting only if he sees fit. Provision is made in the law for that. The motion before the House tonight makes provision for a certain number of members of the Opposition to have the same privilege, if they think it necessary, as the  President  has in ordinary circumstances. In my humble opinion the request of the Opposition should not be denied. The events of today make it very apparent to me that the amendment before the House is a very necessary one. But if an extraordinary meeting were convened I would not like to see a repetition of today's events. It is very important to realise that the convening of the Senate in extraordinary circumstances must be warranted. The Opposition went off half-cocked today. I would not like to see an extraordinary meeting called just to allow the Opposition again to go off in that way. If we are to be reconvened for an extraordinary meeting it is necessary that the conditions be such as fully to warrant the holding of that extraordinary meeting. 
-When the Opposition is finished I am prepared to go on,  Mr President. 
Before an extraordinary meeting is convened it should be necessary for sufficient evidence to be available and for people to be available to give that evidence personally before the House. 
Debate interrupted. 

 - Senator Hall 's statement tonight must be cause for some disquiet. I think that that statement makes it more necessary to have an extraordinary meeting convened than does anything else we have heard either earlier today or prior to  Senator Hall's  address tonight. This is the Australian Parliament. We should set the lead in seeing to it that justice is not only done but also appears to be done. Accusations have been made by each side of the House against the other.  Senator Hall's  statement tonight makes it very apparent to me that in the course of a day or two there will be such conditions available as fully to justify the calling of an extraordinary meeting. I would not like to be called to an extraordinary meeting for no good purpose, such as the 3-hour debate we had today.  Senator Hall  has suggested that there is evidence to be produced; the Opposition suggested this morning that there is evidence to be produced; and the Government has accused the Opposition of not doing its part. Taking those 3 things into account, I think it is very necessary to have a close look at what is happening. For that reason I am going to support the amendment. 
The Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill poses 2 main questions. Firstly, are private sector insurance companies incapable of giving adequate service, and, secondly, is it a matter of the Government embarking on an insurance nationalisation plan? It is my considered opinion that in answering those questions I would give my vote in favour of the second one. This matter was discussed yesterday from 4 p.m., throughout the whole of the afternoon and the evening. I do not intend to traverse the ground which previously has been covered. Suffice to say that I would imagine the petitions presented to this Senate represent a greater number of signatures than the Senate has ever received in connection with any other matter. Whilst I am prepared to admit that it is very easy to obtain signatures to a petition the fact remains that a great number of these petitioners have been voicing their opinion against the possible nationalisation of insurance and the taking away from the private sector of something which rightfully belongs to it. There is no justification for encroachment on the private sector in this matter. I say that by reason of the fact that insurance companies have not failed. Throughout the term they have carried out their functions in a very wonderful fashion and have presented to the public generally a state of affairs within the insurance world that has stood our people in good stead. 
As a public accountant I have realised over the years the value of insurance contracts. I have been privileged from a personal point of view and also on behalf of scores of clients to have negotiations with insurance companies and they have been all very satisfactory. They have provided a state of affairs whereby people who have been prepared to make preparations for the future have been given a contract- a very desirable contract. In many instances, as a result of the prudence and forethought of people desiring insurance, the Government has been relieved of the necessity to provide pensions. 
It was stated yesterday that some people have been unable to obtain contracts; that insurance companies were not prepared to enter into negotiations with them and to provide contracts. I put that position in the reverse. People who desired insurance have not been able to pay for it. They have not been able to meet the premium which the companies desired to charge. Taking into account that insurance generally operates on an actuarial basis, it is necessary, if insurance companies are to remain solvent and if they are to provide a security for their shareholders generally, that contracts should be such as to make them a payable proposition. Insurance has not been refused but many people have not been prepared to pay the price asked for it. There is a vast difference in saying that one cannot obtain insurance due to the policy of companies and saying that insurance cannot be obtained on account of the price structure of it. 
I believe that this legislation is designed to give vent to an avowed policy of the Government. The point has been emphasised that insurance companies have not been able to meet natural disaster requirements. That is as it should be. It is not for the private sector of insurance companies to make provision for natural disasters, any more than it is for any other organisation to take from the Government the task of national development. These things go hand in hand and if we are to have national disasters it is up to the social system which we have- a very line social system- to meet the needs of those people who are affected by the disasters. 
I feel also that this is a most inopportune time to present a Bill such as this. The Budget is sufficient to let us realise that it is necessary for the Government to mark time on new ventures and, more particularly, to mark time on a venture which, as I said before, has been a very successful one in the hands of the private sector. The fact remains that this country cannot afford to enter into this type of new adventure. I know perfectly well that we are living in a world of change but it is necessary that basic fundamentals are not thrown overboard to bring about this change. We find that fundamentals are being thrown overboard in the Bill before the Senate. The fact is that governments, in conjunction with the private sector, have built up a great country and, make no error about it, the part that the private sector has played, not only in developing this country but also in providing the wherewithal for the government of the day to present to the public a catalogue of social services, is the envy of many countries. So this happy partnership which has applied throughout the years has done a great service and it is necessary that the partnership be a complete one between all facets of government and all facets of private enterprise. 
We are still a private enterprise country and, make no error about it, if we are to change and go away from that situation we will go in the wrong direction. Insurance offices have an absolutely unblemished record as I see it and this Bill is another step towards nationalisation rather than a condemnation of a longstanding private service. The national government collects the total taxation and it is called upon to look after the social affairs of this country, and rightly so. The nationalisation of activities or, might I say, the socialisation of activities must not depart from the social welfare ambit. I am not one of those who decry Medibank. Medibank rightfully belongs to the national government. The funds for Medibank should be provided by the people through the normal structure of tax collection. However, I am opposed to an encroachment on the private sector such as this Bill seeks to make and such as was attempted previously in connection with the banking system. Goodness knows where the next move will come from. 
Let us not hide our light under a bushel; let us be prepared to acknowledge what has happened in the past and to acknowledge the way in which we have accepted the dictates of federation. This country has made great strides as a result of the operation of the partnership to which I have just referred and we have reached a stage when we should as a matter of policy decide to carry on into the future the correct operations of government and private enterprise as we have done in the past. This is not a totalitarian state. It is a state in which private enterprise has played its part so well that governments should have confidence in the part that private enterprise can play. The appointment of a board under this insurance legislation is another instance of the delegation of an authority which rightfully belongs to government, and that is what I am concerned about. Unfortunately it is not only in Federal but also in State governments, irrespective of party affiliation, where we find that authorities, corporations, boards and commissions are taking control. We are getting not government for the people by the people but a bureaucracy which is not standing this country in good stead. I could give dozens of instances of this mainly in connection with the State sphere, strange to relate, because I have been closely associated with local government for half a century and have seen so many changes take place, changes which have upset the normal pattern upon which a great country has been built. If we throw overboard the private enterprise sector and put it under government bureaucratic control it will not be in the best interests of our parliamentary society. 
So I have no hesitation in opposing this legislation. We find that the control which we are getting in many things today is costly indeed and I would venture the opinion that the deficit which was revealed to us the night before last has to a large extent been brought about by the costs of organisations such as those I have mentionedboards, authorities, corporations and the like- to which authority has been given to duplicate, with big staffs, the work which could be done in the normal departments and in many instances to duplicate the work which has for a century been carried out by local government. There is no need for the change to take place. Therefore this Bill is a step in the wrong direction. I will be ever ready to support the nationalisation of welfare concerns and to condemn in a very loud voice the nationalisation of matters which do not belong to government control. 

 - Mr President, it is very difficult to reconcile what has been said by Opposition senators with the original statement made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  in opening this debate. He said that the Opposition would not oppose the Bill but that at another stage it would move to have the Bill referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Realising that the Committee consists of 6 members of the Senate- three from each side of the chamber- and noting the tenor of the debate today, one wonders what good purpose would be served by referring this matter to the Committee because there certainly would not be a unanimous vote on the Committee. I should have thought that if there were to be the opposition to the Bill of which we have seen evidence this afternoon, there would have been a complete debate in this chamber and an amendment would have been moved or so much would have been said that the Bill would have been thrown out. But such has not been the case. 
This afternoon we have heard quite a deal of talk which has been outside the scope of the actual Bill itself. The title of this Bill is ' A Bill for an Act to amend the Defence Act 1903-73, and other Acts, for purposes related to the reorganization of the Defence Force, and for other purposes'. 
For some years it has been known that the present legislation is inadequate. As a result of that the Government saw fit to ask  Sir Arthur  Tange, the Secretary of the Department of Defence, to make a report. The Government also saw fit to have a Senate committee inquire into the matter. Following on those reports certain legislative action was recommended to the Government. I should have thought that if the Opposition felt keenly about this Bill an amendment to it would have been moved. 
I have been contacted by several people with different points of view in connection with this matter. It is a matter of opinion as to how best the position can be served. As a result of the discussion that took place in this chamber earlier I took it upon myself to do what normally I do not do. Normally, as a matter of courtesy to my colleagues, I sit through the whole of the debates in the Senate. As a matter of courtesy on the one hand and not having access to Party rooms on the other, I like to listen to the debates so that I know what is the position and then vote in accordance with my thinking as an Independent. I have followed that course of action ever since I have been a member of this chamber. 
When it was suggested that this matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence I took it upon myself to analyse the Bill carefully and also, as far as I could, to traverse the suggestions made in the Tange report. In the light of the telephone calls I have received on this subject I was impressed when I read in this report- I have no reason to disbelieve it- the following comment by  Sir Arthur  Tange: 
I consulted the members of the Chiefs of Staff Committee collectively (Admiral  Sir Victor  Smith, Vice Admiral  Sir Richard  Peek, Lieutenant General  Sir Mervyn  Brogan and Air Marshal C. F. Read) and we unanimously agreed to recommend . . . 
He went on to list the things that they had unanimously agreed to recommend. I emphasise the words 'we unanimously agreed to recommend'. There is no doubting the fact that the Government, having called for this report, has included in this legislation the suggestions contained in the report. Far be it from me to set myself up as an authority on matters such as this. I am just a member of the Senate who assists in the creation of policy. Every member of the Senate is in exactly the same position. We have no experts in this chamber on this matter. We called upon an expert to make a report. That expert consulted other experts in the field, including those people who perhaps could have been offended by the legislation which was suggested by him and which is included in the Bill that we have before us today. It would appear that the Chiefs of Staff have been quite satisfied to go hand in hand with the suggestions that have been made. It has been very difficult to make an assessment of the situation. Unfortunately it was not until the closing period of this morning's session that I was handed a copy of the report by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the Australian Army. I have not had an opportunity to read it. I am going entirely on what is included in the Bill and what I have read in the Tange report. 
Might I just analyse what has happened here and, in my humble way, put my interpretation on what is contained in the legislation. In opening the debate on the Bill for the Opposition,  Senator Withers  referred to the complexity of the Bill. The fact that the Bill contains 187 clauses may be misleading since the great bulk of the clauses are concerned with matters of minor detail, such as the correcting of deficiencies in the current legislation or the making of consequential amendments in relation to the main clauses of the Bill. In fact, only 5 clauses are of major significance. They are: clause 7, which inserts new provisions governing the command and administration of the forces; clause 46, which provides for the abolition of the sentence of death by Service courts-martial; and clauses 23, 65 and 95, which abolish the Service Boards. In regard to the abolition of the death penalty, I am sure that no honourable senator would wish to oppose or even delay such a measure. No serious challenge has been made to the proposed abolition of the Service Boards, which are a method of administration and/or command of the Services by a Committee and for which a single command structure is to be substituted. Might I say that we had a single command structure here in General MacArthur. So we have a precedent to help that along. The debate, therefore, is essentially about clause 7 of the Bill and, although of great significance, the provisions and the philosophies on which it is based are essentially simple. 
Clause 7 of the Bill seeks to insert in the Defence Act new sections 8, 9, 9a and 9b. The proposed new section 8 defines the present constitutional power of the Minister and provides that, as always has been the case, the authority exercised by the senior Service Chiefs will be subject to the directions of the Minister. Surely no one would suggest that the basic authority and. powers of the Minister should be cut down by independent authority vested in any official, whether he be Service or civilian. Reference has been made to the command in chief vested in the Governor-General. In providing in the proposed new section 9 for command to be exercised by a Chief of Defence Force Staff or by Chiefs of Staff it has been expressly provided that such command is subject to section 68 of the Constitution, which vests command in chief in the GovernorGeneral as the Queen's representative. The Constitution makes provision for that. For the first time a clear single line of command has been established by the proposed new section 9, which creates an Office of Chief of Defence Force Staff with command of the defence force, and also provides for each Chief of Staff, under the Chief of the Defence Force Staff, to command his arm of the force. The principle of having a single chain of command for the defence force that is clearly set out in the legislation has not been seriously challenged and must be welcomed by all who are concerned with the operational responsibilities of the armed Services. 
The proposed new section 9a links the Chief of Defence Force Staff and the Secretary of the Department in the overall administration of the defence force. This is the provision that has given rise to much of the criticism of the reorganisation In the defence organisation that is being replaced, the administration of the Services was shared under the Service Ministers by the members of the Service Boards, including the Secretary of the Service departments. Above the single Service departments, the old Department of Defence, with little or no direct military input, occupied a position that the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, stated in the Parliament to be 'one of complete authority'. 
Under the new defence organisation there will be a very substantial part in policy formulation and advice played by the numerous senior Service officers who are being given responsibilities within the reorganised Department of Defence. This, in itself, will largely overcome the predominantly civilian expertise deployed by the previous Department in the discharge of its responsibilities. Even more significant, the proposed new section 9a restricts the powers of the Secretary of the Department under section 25 (2) of the Public Service Act by specifically providing that the administration of the defence force should be the joint responsibility, under the Minister, of the Secretary and the CDFS. Far from extending the powers of the Secretary or his officers, the combined result of this sharing of administrative responsibility and the greater direct input into departmental business of Service officers represents a substantial move towards a better balance in the civil and military advice reaching the Minister and the Government. Clause 7 also seeks to insert a new section 9b, which merely provides for the determination of the remuneration of the CDFS and the Chiefs of Staff by the Remuneration Tribunal. 
The process of abolishing Service Ministers and the separate Service departments and the restructuring of a new Department of Defence to provide one integrated administrative support to the Armed Services has been proceeding since the end of 1972, when the then Minister for Defence assumed all the portfolios within the defence group of departments. Towards the end of 1973 the Service departments were abolished and the report by  Sir Arthur  Tange on both the military command and the departmental structure recommended was presented to the Minister and to the Parliament. The restructuring of the new unified Department of Defence has been proceeding progressively. The stage has now been reached where legislation is required to obtain the full benefit of the functional organisation of the Department and the clear single line of military command. That legislation is now before the Senate and, having regard to the clarity and simplicity of the issues involved, no good reason is seen by me as to why the Bill should be referred for study by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
It is recognised by all that the present Bill is totally inadequate.  1  think that this legislation makes an attempt to rectify the position. There will be differences of opinion as to what that rectification should be. I would have loved to have heard from the Opposition its thoughts on the change that should be made. As I see it, there is nothing in this Bill that is not in the best interests of the defence of Australia. Consequently, I will support the Bill. I sincerely regret that the opposition to the Bill expressed today is contrary to the remarks of the Opposition Leader  (Senator Withers)  when he opened the debate. He said that the Opposition was going to support the Bill but that at a later stage it will have it referred to a select committee. It is a remarkable state of affairs. It is the funniest sort of support that I have ever heard. It would be very interesting to know just what has prompted the change in mind since Tuesday last up till this present time. Perhaps it is a result of the representations which I have received and which have been received by others designed to change their minds and result in their being led by other people. It is a good thing to know that people are interested in defence; it is very necessary. But on the mode of the defence and in the promulgation of legislation, it is necessary that there should be a heart to heart discussion, not on party lines, but on independent lines in the best interests of this nation. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. Before posmg it, I outline briefly the reason for it. The transmitter for Radio 2CO, an Australian Broadcasting Commission regional broadcasting station, is at Corowa. The studios are based at Albury, 35 miles distant. The studios cannot hear or receive 2CO on the off-air monitor. It is considered likely that the aerial is facing the wrong way and is not sending a signal to Albury. For the same reason, reception in Albury and 
Wagga, the 2 main centres of population, is poor. Will the Minister call for a report on the matter, with a view to building a new aerial or placing a small low-power transmitter at Albury? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDHaving been the Minister for the Media I know that  Senator Bunton  's description of the problems of Radio 2CO reception, certainly so far as Albury is concerned, is basically correct. The transmitter for 2CO is a horizontal one, not a vertical one, because of its proximity to the Albury airport. But having said that, I can assure the honourable senator that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is very much aware of 2CO's reception difficulties in Albury and is currently looking at them with a view to seeing whether they can be overcome. Of course, the matter also very much involves the Australian Telecommunications Commission and our colleague, the PostmasterGeneral,  Senator Bishop,  is responsible for that area. I know that his people also have been looking at the matter.  Senator Bunton  can assure the people of Albury that the matter is being looked at and, indeed has been looked at for some time. 
My comments on the Budget will be restricted soley to comments from a budgetary viewpoint. I preface my remarks by quoting a statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Crean,  following the publication of the Budget. He said: 
The new taxation scheme is one of the Government's greatest social contributions. We are using taxation as a proper social instrument. 
I see nothing wrong with that contention, but this Budget was brought down at a time when Australia was in the throes of inflation and unemployment and it is a Budget which will be costly indeed. It is difficult to dovetail increased social benefits with the present economic climate without getting into financial trouble. Indeed, there is no doubt that this Budget presents a financial disability. The Government has budgeted for a deficit of $2,798m, following last year's deficit of $2,566m. That is a state of affairs which should be looked at very carefully, and that is what prompted me to say that my comments will relate entirely to the Budget from a budgetary point of view. I realise that there are honourable senators in this chamber who would like to have seen the Budget include items which have not been included but, as happens with any Budget, it is a case of omissions and commissions. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has seen fit to say that his Budget would include expenditures outside those included in the Government's Budget. Honourable senators in this chamber have said that they would not include certain facets of expenditure which the Government has included. That is entirely a matter of opinion. It is a difference of opinion in relation to priorities; it is a difference of opinion in relation to indirect tax charges, and your opinion is as good as mine. One opinion is as good as the next person's as to what expenditure should be made and the field in which it should take place. But I think honourable senators will agree with me when I say that it is a signal of danger when we budget for a deficit of such magnitude. If the business world generally budgeted for such a deficit it would be a case of bankruptcy. Australia is in a difficult financial position. 
I should like to pay tribute to the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland),  who said this morning that when the Budget was being prepared there were signs of recovery. I think he was being a little optimistic in saying that. I would prefer to have seen the recovery take place before the introduction of legislation requiring excessive expenditure for the current year. I should also like to say that the Minister's reference this morning to wage indexation was courageous and responsible. I think he did himself proud, and indeed did his Party proud, when he made a statement of party policy in connection with wage indexation. The starting point for the control of the inflationary trend is wage restraint. If we have wage restraint the cost of living will follow and fit in with the scheme of things. There will be an increase in productivity in the rural sector which is most necessary. 
Inflation and unemployment are at a peak and in conjunction with that peak we see the exercise of the mandate given to the Government at 2 elections at a time which perhaps is inopportune. Perhaps there should have been a waiting period. However, be that as it may, no Budget has ever pleased the people generally. Never has there been a Budget which has pleased the Opposition. Never will there be a Budget which will please any Opposition because the introduction of the Budget provides an opportunity for everybody to let off steam. I am not a member of the Opposition; I am a freelance and I speak as I think I should. I do not intend to make comments which will be destructive. Rather, I should like to enter this debate in a constructive fashion. Budgeting for a further deficit does little towards arresting inflation. The simple truth is that when outgoings exceed incomings it is a danger signal. Let me repeat: In the private sector it means bankruptcy, and the Government is looking to the private sector to provide the wherewithal for it to fulfil its estimates of expenditure for the coming 12 months. The decisions made by the Government in the Budget mean that taxation is being inflicted which people cannot afford to pay. In this age of social benefits we need to be careful that individual incentive is not lost. In many instances today good salaries are being swamped in meeting taxation and normal living expenses. 
Medibank, which in my opinion is a worthy social expedient, is very COStlY. I think it was necessary for the Government to provide such a scheme because with the previous contributory type of scheme many people who were prone to need medical and hospital care were not members of any society. With that state of affairs it was up to the Government^ working from the social welfare aspects of its platform, to do something to arrest the position. However, the funds to meet the expenses of Medibank are coming from Consolidated Revenue: Despite the high rate of taxation that we have it would appear that it might have been necessary to have a levy in order to meet that cost. When introducing a highly beneficial welfare scheme surely there was a need for consolidation in other fields. We have not got that consolidation. In going through the various lists I find that increased amounts have been made available in certain sections of Government expenditure. In my humble opinion funds are being made available in avenues which are not as worthy as some of the avenues which have been left out. I think that the estimates should have been pruned to such an extent that we could balance the Budget. If we continue with deficits from year to year we shall find ourselves, as a nation, insolvent. We cannot expect the public to meet increased taxation. In my opinion taxation is at an all time high. It is a state of affairs whereby- let me repeat- incentive has gone by the board. Government and co-operation in all things is the law of life. If we cannot get the cooperation of citizens generally in government proposals we shall be in trouble. 
I note with some satisfaction that there has been a company tax decrease of  2Vi  per cent. But I think that this is not doing enough for small business when we realise that upwards of 400 000 small businesses in this Commonwealth are having very lean times. There are approximately 400 000 businesses in the Commonwealth of which 95 per cent are small businesses and small companies- and the small businesses and the small companies are those which are employing under 100 employees each. We find that the relatively few large firms are dominating some parts of the market place. We find that small business has major problems, the foremost of which are financial, and in that category taxation is the main component of the problem. We find that small business is at a disadvantage in connection with management. It is at a disadvantage as a result of the domination by big firms and the danger of takeovers. I can speak with some conviction in connection with that particular facet. As far as small business is concerned, from a financial angle the trading banks see their role of providing working capital rather than providing funds for augmentation of fixed assets. We find that small business is more likely to run into liquidity problems. We find that small businesses are hit harder by inflation and that the retained profits are accumulated slowly, being insufficient to finance the faster rate of growth demanded by the market. From a management point of view we find that there is an imbalance between functional skills in the small business sector and in the small company business also. We find that there is an isolation of management, and indeed that small business management has not the opportunity and advantage of problem sharing with many managers who are operating in the big businesses. This leads me to say that it is necessary that a Budget should make special provision for the small company and for the small business man. In connection with the domination by big firms there is an absence of resources amongst the smaller companies to withstand fierce competition. They are at buying disadvantage. They are at a disadvantage in field technology. I feel that the Budget, in not giving a greater relief to small businesses has dealt them a severe blow. Companies with small profits being called on to pay the reduced rate of 42$ per cent company tax are in my opinion harshly treated. 
We find that personal income is taxed on a sliding scale- the higher the income, the greater the rate. Why should this formula not apply from a company point of view? Small business has played its part in this nation's development and has played a major part in the employment field- a field which is causing this Government and governments all over the world a deal of concern. It is cause for concern that many small businesses are folding up. I noticed an account in the Press only last week where the Premier of New South Wales said that in the first 7 months of this year 878 businesses had closed down in the State. The main cause of this is over trading, that is, trading beyond financial resources; companies being forced into a position that they did not know would arise because of their lack of financial resources. They have met their taxationa heavy taxation- all along the line. In my opinion their plight has been aggravated by what I think, from a small business point of view, is excessive taxation. 
I should like to commend the Government for removing the added tax of 10 per cent on income from investments. The fundamental of any taxing or rating system is that it should provide a full degree of equity between taxpayers and between ratepayers. I am not unmindful that high taxation is loaded against those of initiative. Let us take the case of a middle bracket taxpayer with an income of, say, $15,000 to $20,000 a year. He is being sacrificed to meet the social welfare plan. I have nothing against that social welfare plan but it is necessary that there should be that full degree of equity applying between taxpayers in order that all will meet a just share. It is a bad state of affairs when we arrive at a system whereby it is nigh an impossibility for the human bird to get his nest. We have this state of affairs applying at the present time. It is difficult for a person, unless he is blessed by legacy or the like, unless he is prepared to forgo all the advantages which this blessed country can give him and provided he is not prepared to exploit his fellow man, to earn sufficient to get his nest. So we need to be careful. We need to take a humane outlook in this connection. It is governments that should set the lead in this. The Budget expenditure in my opinion should have been decreased rather than a substantial increase made by the heavy taxing of a section of the taxpayers. 
I should like to advise the Senate of the local government attitude in these times. I doubt that there would be a council in this Commonwealth that has not had its recent estimates presented to it and that did not send them back to officers with the report: 'You will have to reduce this amount. We cannot tax the ratepayers to the extent necessary in order to do these works.' Local government is of course the victim of a vicious inflation. It had nothing to do with creating that inflation. I am not one of those who say that the Government is responsible entirely for inflation. I am not suggesting that. Inflation has been brought about by a mass of circumstances, including many over which the Government has no control. By the same token, local government was an absolutely innocent party to the inflation. 
What do we find? We find that local government estimates have been pruned, in some cases to the extent of 20 per cent, 25 per cent or 33  W  per cent, so that councils could keep their heads above water. The Government should have done a similar thing with this Budget. It has introduced social welfare benefits, and rightly so. At the same time it has not taken any cognisance of the fact that we are in the throes of inflation and unemployment as a result of which government funds must be expended in spheres outside the normal spheres. As a result we have this overwhelming deficit of $2,798m, following last year's deficit of $2,566m. I do not think it is too late for the Government to have a further look at this matter. We could do that when dealing with the appropriations. I think we would be well advised not to throw out the Budget by any means but to modify some of the expenditure under it. Surely it is not expected that every facet of a Budget presented to Parliament will be acceptable. I accept it in principle, wholeheartedly. I maintain that under extraordinary circumstances the Government has done a reasonably good job in presenting this Budget. I did not envy the Government's task in presenting this Budget. Let me repeat, as the result of a mandate given at 2 elections, that to introduce a liberal social welfare system and at the same time trying to arrest inflation and to provide ample employment is a herculean task. In view of all the circumstances I think the Budget is a well prepared document. Furthermore, I think that with a few modifications it would be acceptable to the people generally. I think we should have another look at it from that point of view. 
The Public Service has expanded in the last decade. It has been a costly expansion and has been greater than was necessary for the normal functioning of public services. It has assisted materially to bring about the unhealthy financial climate that we have today. In my maiden speech I referred to the creation of boards, corporations, authorities and commissions to take over the business of responsible government. Since I became a senator, not only the Government but this Parliament generally has been prepared to accept commissions and corporations, one after another, to carry out the normal functions that were carried out by departmental heads in the past. Those departmental heads have not been retrenched. In the general Public Service set-up today there is a duplication of people. We have created a bureaucracy which is entirely contrary to a democracy. It is a costly venture and one at which we should look very closely. The Government should not seek to implement all these niceties when the climate is bad. It can do so when things are going along quite happily and merrily, but not in the present circumstances. This is not the cure for inflation or for our social ills. Our economy can be rectified only when inflation is arrested and full employment prevails. This position will emerge when a middle of the road policy is implemented by the Government, when capital and labour realise that each is dependent on the other and when the economy allows us to get our full share of the export market. 
I will not support the Opposition's amendment. I will support the original motion which reads: 
That the Senate take note of the Papers. 
The Opposition's amendment seeks to add these words: but the Senate is of the opinion that the Budget fails to tackle Australia's economic crisis because: 
1 ) it does not provide an adequate program to defeat inflation; 
2 ) it does not relieve unemployment; 
it does not restore confidence in the private sector of the economy; 
it does not provide real tax relief to provide a proper basis for wage and salary restraint; and 
5 ) it fails to restrain Government spending. 
In the course of my remarks I said that I was reasonably satisfied with the Budget. After reading all matters relative to it and after hearing  Senator James  McClelland 's contribution this morning, my opinion is that the Government is acting in such a way as to create confidence. I think it has made a determined attempt to arrest the position in which it has found itself, a position which has been deteriorating gradually. It was with us when the Government took office. It has gradually become worse because, among other things, of the very poor lot of the man on the land. 
We must not forget that this country is still a rural producing country. Secondary industry takes second place to rural industry. We must not forget that. When we give incentives to secondary industry and do not give comparable incentives to rural industry, a difficulty can be created. In very difficult times rural industry has not been able to play its rightful role in the economy of this country. I think a change will be made. It is necessary that we forever remind ourselves of what rural industry means to the success of this country. Let us make no mistake about where the emphasis lies. I think a responsible attempt has been made by the Government in very adverse conditions. I certainly would be prepared to allow it to exploit the avenues which are open to it and to carry on as suggested by the Minister for Labor and Immigration in his speech this morning. I thank the Senate for having listened to me so patiently. 
I have risen more particularly in the light of  Senator Wright's  comments concerning my appointment to this chamber. Let me inform  Senator Wright  in particular and the chamber in general that my appointment was fully in accordance with the Constitution and I took my seat here on that basis. Having said that, might I also say that I appreciate the fact that  Senator Hall  has made the reference to this matter that he has at this time. There is definitely a cloud hanging over this Parliament at the moment, which is a time when we are considering whether we are going to pass or reject high rating legislation. It is as well that members of the Senate should know the position as to what is likely to happen when we are dealing with the Budget Bills. If we are to have a set Parliament and if we are prepared to accept that the Government should remain in office for the term that it was appointed at the last election we can deal with the matter in a much more favourable manner than otherwise would be the case. 
I can see nothing wrong with what  Senator Hall  has done. The corridors of this building have been crammed full with all sorts of innuendoes. Hardly a person who spoke to the Budget on behalf of the Opposition did not say: 'We will throw it out and automatically throw out the Government'. 
-There was hardly a  speaker  who did not make some such comment. The motion that the Senate take note of the Budget Papers was not passed unamended; it was passed with an addendum to it. The Opposition saw fit to move an amendment to the original motion. Let us analyse what the Opposition's amendment stated and then draw our own conclusions as to what could be expected to be done in view of the discussion that has been taking place around this place during the last two or three days. It is very evident that there is more than meets the eye in relation to the speculation in the Press. Let us analyse the terms of the amendment. The amendment states that the Senate is of the opinion that the Budget fails to tackle Australia's economic crisis because it does not provide an adequate program to defeat inflationwhich is a statement that I doubt- and because it does not relieve unemployment, it does not restore confidence in the private sector of the economy, it does not provide real tax relief to provide a proper basis for wage and salary restraint and it fails to restrain government spending. 
Unlike  Senator Hall,  I supported the motion and I wholeheartedly opposed the amendment. Why did I do that? I did it for the simple reason that I reckoned that the Budget was an honest attempt by the Government to rectify a very difficult position at a very difficult time. I think the Government should be complimented on the Budget by the Opposition in the same way as it was complimented by the only fair dinkum independent in this chamber. I represent New South Wales; I am very proud to have been appointed to represent that State. I know that the people of my State are anxious that the level of unemployment should be lowered. I know that they are anxious to have indexation. I feel that the people of my State would not be any happier if there were a change of government in light of the avowed policies which the Opposition has said it would implement if it were elected to power. We will not see a different state of affairs. Expenditure will be reduced further, which will not create a favourable position with regard to unemployment or inflation. The Government has given as much relief as the present economic climate could allow it to give. 
What do we find? Much has been said concerning the constitutional position. I am not going to match my wits with those of  Senator Wright.  I am a newcomer here; he is an old hand. I am just a plain public accountant; he is a lawyer. But I will say to him that on the records there are many instances of eminent authorities pointing out the dilemma in which this chamber could find itself if such rumours are continued and if we find that there is a to be a double dissolution. I have just pulled out of my drawer a statement in that connection by  Sir Robert  Menzies which appeared in the  Daily Telegraph  of 11 March 1968. He stated that in the end result the Senate has a full power to reject any Bill, but he argues that the exercise of that power would create an impossible situation and would make popular government unworkable. He restates the principle that whoever commands a majority in the House of Representatives forms a government and has the right, with his colleagues, to govern. It follows from that principle that it would be a falsification of democracy if, on any matter of Government policy approved by the House of Representatives, the Senate representing the States and not the people could reverse the decision. 
I am prepared to listen to what  Sir Robert  Menzies said. I have a great admiration for him as a statesman and no doubt members of his Party would agree with that statement. We should be informed very quickly whether there is the possibility of a double dissolution because if there is such a possibility those of us in the opposition forces should have ample time to reinforce ourselves so that we can provide opposition to any double dissolution proposals. There is no doubting that the refusal of supply- that is what is hinted; do not let us hide our lights under a bushel- breaches the parliamentary system about which  Senator Wright  has so much to say and is contrary to the principles of democracy. 
I should like to say to  Senator Wright  that democracy is the opposite of tyranny and oppression and to give way in this instance would be tyranny in its worst form. I have said that only in the light of what has been said by  Senator Wright.  I should have thought that he would have learnt the lesson. The ingredients at this time are exactly the same as the ingredients in, I think, April last year when the Government went back to the people. The people returned the Government that the Opposition proposed should be got rid of. Surely, with a double mandate the Opposition parties do not want a triple mandate. 
I commend the Budget and can see no reason why Supply should not be granted as a result of it. I will fight to the last ditch. I speak as an independent. I speak as a person with no party claim upon me. I venture the opinion that in respect of many matters that come before the Parliament if members were not forced to vote with the machine many would vote in a different way. You would be amazed,  Mr Deputy President,  if I told you the number of people on both sides of the House who have come to me in recent weeks and said that they wholeheartedly agreed with what I said but they had to vote in the way they did. I speak as an independent and as a person prepared to uphold the principles of legislation and the principles of government.  Senator Hall  came forth today and suggested to the Senate that there is a cloud hanging over the Parliament. It is going to be a frustrating period unless the position is defined very soon. Personally I do not think that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has been caught with his pants down; I think he has been caught with his pants well and truly up. The Opposition may not think so but let it come out right here and say now that it is not going to grant Supply. Its members have made up their minds about what they are going to do. The bringing forth of the Bills is only a formality. Let the Opposition come out now and say that it is not going to grant Supply so that the people will know where they stand. 
I think we would have a much better state of affairs if people were more honest with each other instead of resorting to innuendoes. The amendment moved to the normal formal motion relating to the Budget was the beginning of the end. That was the start of this situation. Then there was talk in the corridors and members of the Press were very active in trying to find out what was what. I have had representatives of the Press running after me all day long because they see that there is something in the offing. I commend  Senator Hall  for having brought this matter forward although perhaps he did so at an inappropriate time. 
-I  present the following petition from 16 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That we respectfully call on the Senate to pass the Government Insurance bill for many reasons, one of these being constant attempts, by various means, of private insurance companies not to honour, or to try to escape, their contracted responsibilities. 
Not the least of failures of private insurance companies is the constant tragic lack of performance by such companies during natural disasters such as the Brisbane floods, the Darwin cyclone etc., this latter alone establishes an urgent need for an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise to oppose the 5 electoral Bills which relate to the States of South Australia, Tasmania, Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales. My main reason for opposing them is that as a New South Welshman I feel greatly concerned at the possibility of the electorate of Riverina being cast aside. I do not approach this matter from the point of view of an advantage being gained by one party or another. I approach it entirely with a voice of independence. I do not like to think that any party would place any credence on an advantage which an electoral Bill may give them. I believe that the legislation is not in the best interests of New South Wales and I presume the same thing applies in connection with the other States. 
I would have had no hesitation in supporting the Bills had the meat of them been in accordance with the original formula. But the formula which has been set is quite illogical. The original legislation which was passed by this Parliament stated: 
In making any proposed distribution of a State into Divisions, the Distribution Commissioners shall give due consideration, in relation to each proposed Division, to: 
community of interests within the Division, including economic, social and regional interests; 
means of communication and travel within the Division; 
the trends of population changes within the State; and 
the physical features of the Division; and 
existing boundaries of Divisions and Subdivisions. 
We find now that an entirely different situation applies. The amending legislation which was presented to the Parliament in 1974 omitted some of the very important components of what I just stated, namely the means of communication and travel within the division with special reference to disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, the density or sparsity of population of the division and the area of the division. These are crucial points. However, they are to be deleted by the legislation which we have before us. The productivity of the area should also be a component of the formula. 
I would not feel in all conscience satisfied to accept the position as it is at the present time. It has been stated that not to pass these Bills would be to contravene the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Nevertheless, the Senate is given the right not to pass the Bills if it sees fit. It would be a contravention of the Constitution if any action were taken to change the status quo in relation to the number of senators. The Labor Party talks about one vote one value and about parity between electors. Each of the 6 States has 10 representatives in the Senate. Yet we are quibbling about the country getting its fair share of the voting strength in electorates. As I see it, there is nothing to be said in favour of this change. It would have a cruelling effect on decentralisation. It would place the electors in remote areas and in country areas generally at a disadvantage. It would be another move in the interests of centralisation from an electoral point of view, and that is not right. 
My home State, New South Wales, has created by State law 9 regions in the State. To show the importance of country areas to the development of this State, I remind the Senate that seven of those 9 regions are in country areas. The remaining two are in metropolitan areas. When we analyse the situation in relation to the Bills, we see that it is necessary from the point of view of development and of giving all people in the State representation which they desire that that state of" affairs applies in connection with electoral boundaries. When all is said and done, I suppose that country people, who are living in developing areas, are more entitled to the ear of their elected representatives than city residents are entitled to the ear of their elected representatives because the city is established. The country is still being developed. It would be a retrograde step if we were to make any of the changes suggested in these electoral Bills. 
I have an open mind on this matter. I speak as one who believes entirely in the development of this country. In connection with electoral matters and developmental matters we should see that the status quo remains. Parliament generally has created a wonderful state of affairs in connection with the development of Australia. The present Government is to be commended for the part that it is playing in connection with the development of Australia. In that development it is necessary that we take full cognisance of the necessity to give the people in the outback the opportunity to approach their elected representatives because those electors have more to seek than their brothers and sisters in the city have. In this age of talk about regionalism, growth centres and the general development of the community, it is necessary that at every hand people in the country are not placed at a disadvantage compared to those in the city. Electorally, the changes recommended in the Bills- one man one vote and the full parity that have been suggested by the Government- would not be in the best interests of the electoral conditions in this country. For those reasons I will have no hesitation in recording my vote in opposition to the legislation. 
I join in this debate not in a heated fashion but with a sense of conviction. I feel privileged to follow  Senator Steele  Hall and  Senator Button  in their condemnation of today's episode, the culmination of an unfortunate witch hunt. I heard 2 remarkable statements today, one tonight and the other this afternoon. Tonight we heard from  Senator Wright  that this is a challenge which the people must judge. A similar challenge took place in 1974 and the government of the day was not found wanting. The people judged the government of the day and returned it. It is a shocking state of affairs to think that we have a parliamentary society today which allows the will of the people expressed at a triennial election to be flouted in this way. It is an unfortunate set of circumstances which could be perpetrated only in the party political field. I said that I was pleased to follow  Senator Hall  and  Senator Button.  I would like to say that if ever an opportunity was given to the Liberal Movement to throw its wares around it has been given by the action of the Opposition today.  Senator Steele  Hall was quick to gain mileage from it, and it will pay a handsome dividend- make no error about that. I have no party affiliation and so I speak as one on the outside looking in, as it were. The statement made today - 
I am a worthy representative of the people of New South Wales. 
Whether they agree or not does not matter to me, but I think they do. I am very proud of my contribution in this Senate, and the people of New South Wales are proud of it, too. I do not want to say these things but when there is an interjection which is objectionable I am inclined to give an answer such as this. The statement this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  that the Opposition is not rejecting the Budget, is very hard to understand. He said: 'We are not rejecting the Budget but unless the Government is prepared to have a double dissolution it will not get Supply'. In other words he says in relation to the Appropriation Bill which is before the Senate and which is a component of the Budget: 'There is nothing wrong with this Budget, but we are not prepared to accept it unless the Government is prepared to give into our will '. It is a dirty will. That is precisely what is happening. What a shocking state of affairs it is for the Leader of the Opposition to say: 'This is a very good Budget, but we are not prepared to accept it'. That is precisely what has been said. It will be accepted if an election is held in the meantime. So it is a remarkable state of affairs and something in respect of which I am very sorry indeed that the Parliament of this country has been treated in such a way. 
Mistakes have been made by the Government in the handling of the affairs of the country. I think the loans affair did the Government little credit, but the price of the indiscretion has been paid. When all is said and done, the loans discussion was only in the negotiation stage. I have yet to see a government that has not made mistakes and made many mistakes. I have yet to see a government which is not prepared to indulge in all the intrigue in the world to meet its own cause. I am pleased that I am an Independent and can speak with an Independent voice. 
I will not take any notice of interjections. I would like to say that I entered the Senate as an Independent. Despite what has been said in this House I was appointed in strict conformity with the Constitution. I am now fully convinced- I will be leaving soon- that the Party political systems leaves much to be desired. I am fully convinced that the abuse of Party politics is posing a threat to parliamentary democracy. Australia has been a prosperous country of contented people subscribing to the democratic system which demands freedom, protection of the rights of people, understanding and a national mutual love of people. It is a system that is opposed to the system of tyranny and oppression practised in the totalitarian states. Parliament should set a lead by maintaining a stable government. The actions of today do not give stable government. Not only has a constitutional crisis arisen, but the decision plays into the hands of subversive elements. Make no error about the disabilities that can be suffered there. I think Parliament will forever rue today's decision. 
This whole issue has been clouded by the loans affair. The acceptance or rejection of the Budget is something on which it is very difficult to draw a line. We have seen the many statements by the Leader of the Opposition in which he said the Budget would be accepted provided nothing reprehensible turned up in the meantime. The Opposition has not been able to find anything reprehensible as far as the Budget is concerned. I oppose the rejection of Supply on 2 main grounds. The first ground will surprise the Opposition. I accept the Budget as a responsible budget, a budget which could not be presented with the thinking of the Opposition in accordance with the comments of" its Leader on that Budget. Secondly, it would be a serious departure from established constitutional practice if we refuse Supply. 
Let us analyse the main components of the Budget. This will give us an idea of how responsible the Government has been in connection with this Budget. First and foremost, the Government has a double mandate, a mandate of the people, that the Opposition is preparing to throw aside. It has provided a general social welfare program over a wide field, including Medibank which has been a very costly experiment. The Government has had a most unenviable task. Each and everyone of us will disagree with certain of the priorities which have been given in this Budget. When we examine the Appropriation Bills and we see where the funds are being distributed in various sections we are possibly inclined to think: 'I would sooner see an increased amount in one department and a decreased amount in another'. The fact remains that it was an honest approach made in very difficult times. 
I do not think the Government is to be blamed for all the disabilities which we are suffering today. We know full well the high rate of inflation which is prevailing. We know the unemployment position, and that is a state of affairs which I think will be with us for some time. In connection with unemployment we must take into account that automation in industry is increasing daily. We must remember that industry today has to provide employment for husband and wife in many instances. The position in this new society is entirely different from what it was in the old society. I maintain that the Government has been fully aware of the position in this connection. There has been no restraint on wages, on the cost of living or on the fees of professional people. The Government is not responsible for that. Parliament is not responsible for that. That is brought about by arbitration. Unfortunately, arbitration does not appear to have taken a vital component into account. That vital component is the productivity of the land. The primary producer has been hard hit, but that is not the fault of the Government. This Government has endeavoured to do the right thing in connection with the disabilities being suffered by the people on the land. 
It maintained the floor price for wool. At present we are on the wave of an upsurge in connection with the cattle industry. We find that these things come in cycles. We have had unemployment handouts. We have had a Regional Employment Development scheme introduced to bring about a relief in unemployment. But at the same time we have had an increase in inflation. It has been a very difficult time. We have seen the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  playing a vital part in connection with wage indexation. No member on either side of the House could have made the impact where it had to be made that  Senator James  McClelland has made. I think this Parliament will be ever grateful to him for the part that he has played in this connection. With all due respect to the member of the other side who may take his place, he will find the task a very difficult one. I would like to think he could handle it as well as  Senator James  McClelland. I think where credit is due it should be given. This matter has been handled in a courageous fashion and in a statesmanlike manner. So make no error about what is happening in that field. 
We have heard a great deal about the Estimates. The Government determines policy, the Ministers implement it and their advisers attend to its practical application. During the sittings of the Estimates Committee of which I was a member I was very impressed with the businesslike way in which the officers of the Government handled these matters. In the implementation of government policies by the Ministers and their practical application by the staff of the Parliament there is a very happy state of affairs. Much has been said about a dishonest Budget and dishonest Estimates.  Senator McAuliffe  handled that matter tonight very completely and there is no need for me to recapitulate. But the fact remains that it is evident that at every turn members of the Opposition have continued their witch hunt in an endeavour to find something dishonest, something that is wrong. They have not succeeded and today they clutched at the last straw to bring about the present unhappy state of affairs. It is necessary to have an active and strong Opposition as part of the party political system, but it is essential that that Opposition should be a fair Opposition. It was claimed, I think by  Senator Webster,  that in the 3 years of the life of the present Government the wellbeing of people in all sections of the community has been badly done by. I strongly question that statement. The vast majority of people have never been better off. 
It is remarkable that as soon as a Labor Government is elected a section of the business community says: 'It is time for us to button up'. That is precisely what happened before. It is amazing that when talk of a double dissolution began the share market began to rise. There is no justification for that. It is just a case of misplaced confidence. At the time of the election of this Government there was a misplaced lack of confidence; on this occasion there is a misplaced confidence. Immediately the Labor Government was presented with economic difficulties I played my part in assisting the economy. There is a public company in Albury- the only public company there- which employs 400 people at the present time. It is paying a dividend of 13.5 per cent and is thinking very seriously about making a one in five bonus issue of shares. I prevailed on that company to expand. We were just on the verge of having to accept a takeover bid. We fought off the takeover and expanded and we have done remarkably well. 
I have been asked how much money came from the Federal Government. We received not one cent because it is an established industry and the Federal Government does not make funds available for established industries. The Government gives funds to perhaps-ers, to people who come along on the scene and who are perhaps not successful. Last year I prevailed on the Albury City Council to commence a $4m project to build a new administrative block. The economy was bad and someone had to give it a lift, and individuals and councils should see to it that that lift is given. Whatever you do, do not run away with the idea that successful business organisations can exist only when a Liberal-Country Party government is in power. I do not want to boost unduly the merits of the Labor Party. I am a non-party representative and I am proud of it. 1 could have been a member of Parliament in either camp 40 years ago, but I detest party politics and I have seen the reason for that detestation justified today. We have arrived at a very nasty state of affairs. 
I should like to ask the Opposition how it proposes to cure inflation and unemployment. It has not been prepared yet to say so. It has condemned the present Government for the inflation and unemployment that exists, but it does not know how to cure it. Since I have been in the Senate 106 Bills have been passed and seven have been rejected. Some of 106 Bills that have been passed have made provision for the appointment of authorities, corporations, boards and commissions, bringing about an increase in the Public Service, and that has to be paid for. Is it any wonder that in this changed society, with the Government entering into all of the functions which it has, we have this sort of deficit. We must have that deficit, and there is nothing wrong with it. Australia is a growing country, and when the Government provides all the amenities which have been provided, naturally they have to be paid for. It is interesting to note in relation to comments which have been made by members of the Opposition in condemnation of the Government for not having arrested inflation and unemployment that  Mr Wran,  the Leader of the Opposition in the New South Wales Parliament, challenged the Premier to an election on the very ground on which the Federal Opposition is challenging the Government. It is just a trick of the trade. 
I do not intend to delay the Senate any longer. Suffice to say that the main function of government today is to bring capital and labour to a realisation that they are dependent on each other to create an economy which will permit us to get a full share of the export market. I think that the Government has pursued that course. Many authorities have been outspoken against a decision such as the one that was taken today, and I propose to quote only one of them, one whom I admired greatly as a statesman. I refer of course to  Sir Robert  Menzies. Writing in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  on 11 March 1968  Sir Robert  Menzies stated: 
In the end result, the Senate has a full power of rejecting any Bill but argues that the exercise of the power would create an impossible situation and would make popular government unworkable. 
He re-stated the principle that whoever commands a majority in the House forms a government and has the right, with his colleagues, to govern. It follows from this principle that it would be a falsification of democracy if on any matter of government policy approved by the House of Representatives, possibly by a large majority, the Senate representing the States and not the people could reverse the decision. 
Today's decision will create a grave disquiet, and I would like to think that it is not too late for negotiations. Let us be guided by the experience of other countries, the history of which is strewn with the wreckage of institutions that failed to acknowledge basic fundamentals. There is so much at stake that the question merited an individual rather than a party vote. I should like to have thought that every person in this chamber voted in accordance with his unfettered thinking, as  Senator Steele  Hall, the Leader of the Liberal Movement- I gave him a plug, tooand I as an Independent voted on this matter. Finally might I just confirm what I said concerning the witch hunt by quoting from a leading article which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on Thursday, 1 1 September. The article stated: 

 Mr Malcolm Fraser is certainly entitled, if not indeed obliged, to question the Government on its finances. It is, therefore, hardly surprising that he and his  deputy  should quiz the Prime Minister in Parliament yesterday about a letter from the Treasurer in July suggesting that additional funds might be needed for Medibank and the RED scheme. What is surprising, however, are the suggestions- at least some of which have been inspired by people close to  Mr Fraser-  that this funds shortage supplied the grounds and the vehicle for an early election. 

 Senator Button referred to the time that this witch hunt started. I did not know until tonight of the efforts of the Leader of the Opposition yesterday in contacting the Press. But it is remarkable how the Press has changed its attitude within recent weeks. It will not be at all surprising- in fact I think it will be a probability- that the Press will again change its attitude. The Press builds these things up then cuts them down. But quite a deal of water will pass under the bridge between now and the day of an election. We will possibly find there will be a change of heart on the part of the Press generally. 
I rise to speak against the amendment. I realise that the die is cast and I do not propose to repeat what I said a week ago in discussing the Appropriation Bills. The reason I am opposed to the amendment is that I consider it to be unfair. I will, concede the legal aspect, as contained in paragraph (a) of the amendment- that the action is lawful and a proper exercise within the terms of the Constitution of the powers of the Senate- but I would also like to say that there is an implied obligation within that that there should be a just consideration if it is desired that the matter be brought before the Senate. In paragraph (d) of the amendment we find it stated that the Senate has the right and duty to exercise its legislative power and to concur or not to concur, as the Senate sees fit, bearing in mind the seriousness and responsibility of its actions. I emphasise the words 'bearing in mind the seriousness and responsibility of its actions'. No doubt members of this Senate will agree with me that there is a seriousness in the action which is proposed. 
The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  said that the Opposition will not reject the Budget but will hold it up; that is, it will delay the passage of the Appropriation Bills. There must be justification for making such a statement. The Opposition has said it will hold the Bills up until such time as the Government gives an assurance that it will go to the people. In other words, the Opposition is quite prepared to admit that there is nothing wrong with these Appropriation Bills as a component of the Budget but has said that it will pass the Bills provided that the Government resigns from office. That is a remarkable state of affairs and one which is very difficult to understand. If the Opposition rejects the Budget, well and good, but to say that the Budget is all right and will be accepted provided the Government resigns is not good enough. 
I have said that I am opposed to the amendment. I am opposed to it because I do not think it is fair in its comment. It states in part:  the continuing incompetence, evasion, deceit and duplicity of the Prime Minister and his Ministers as exemplified in the overseas loan scandal which was an attempt by the Government to subvert the Constitution, to by-pass Parliament and to evade its responsibilities to the States and the Loan Council; 
I advise the Senate that the loan never got beyond the negotiation stage and, despite the multiplicity of questions which were asked about it, the fact remains that nothing of a deceitful or dishonest character has been placed at the feet of the Government. The amendment continues:  the Prime Minister's failure to maintain proper control over the activities of his Ministers. . . . 
The Opposition claims that that is sufficient to prevent the passing of the Budget. I do not think there is any credence in those claims and I do not think that the amendment as it is framed is a fair realisation of the position. 
This Government was elected in 1972 for a term of 3 years. It was required to face the electors in 1 974 as a result of exactly the same type of consideration as is now being given to this legislation. The reason for the situation then was exactly the same as it is now. The Government was blamed for the state of the economy, and I do not give it all the blame for the state of the economy now. It is claimed by the Opposition that by rejecting the Budget in this way the domestic system is being put into operation. By flouting the will of the people in the 1 972 election and in the second election in 1974 and by moving this amendment the Opposition is taking undemocratic action. Much has been said in connection with this matter which in my humble opinion is quite irrelevant. Every  speaker  on both sides of the House has been silent on the main issue. The main issue is the Appropriation Bills as a component of the Budget. I was contacted by certain members of the media the day following the presentation of the Budget and asked what I thought of it. I replied that without having had a close look at it, it was the type of Budget I expected; it was a Budget in accordance with the mandate given at 2 elections; it was a Budget in accordance with the thinking of the Government on the form of government it wanted. We all have our different priorities. We must recognise that there is a vast difference in the philosophy of the Government and that of the Opposition but I do not think there is any difference in the honesty of purpose of both sides and, because the Opposition is not in favour of the philosophy of the Government this is not sufficient reason to reject the Appropriation Bills. 
Into the debates this week and last week in both Houses personalities have been introduced unnecessarily. I happen to be one of those personalities and I resent references by members of the Government and by members of the Opposition to my appointment to this Senate. It has been stated that the Senate is tainted by my being here. That is the legacy and the product of party politics. Whilst mentioning this matter it might be as well if I let the Senate know how I came to be appointed. I was approached 4 times before I eventually said I would accept the appointment and on the fourth occasion I said I would accept on the condition that I would be a true independent. I have acted with that independence ever since I have been here. 
I have acted with dignity in contrast to the lack of dignity that I have often seen in this chamber and as was instanced in the early part of tonight's proceedings. I assured myself that the New South Wales State Government was going to appoint what the Premier referred to as a neuter and that if Cleaver Ernest Bunton did not accept, Bill Smith, Dick Jones or Harry Thomas- a true independent- would be offered the position. Having assured myself that an independent would be appointed, that there was no chance whatever that a member of a party would be appointed and that the Premier knew I had no affiliation with a party, my appointment was made and I came into this place as a very unwelcome guest. 
I feel that in some quarters even now I am an unwelcome guest because I have been prepared and anxious to adopt an independent attitude in the best interests of sound and sane government. I have from time to time voted with the Government and against the Government and when I have gone to retire at night I have been able to put my head down and sleep in the knowledge that I have done what I considered was the right thing. I would like to think that members of this Senate could go home each night and say: 'My decision tonight was a fair one and in accordance with my conscience'. Unfortunately, all honourable senators cannot do this not only because of their attitude in respect of this matter but also because on so many matters there is a party brand that they have to accept. 
Let me repeat what I said before. It is a pity that there are not more, possibly four independents in the States House which is so evenly divided between the major political parties, as is the other place. Much has been said concerning the appointment of  Senator Field  but the Government has no one but itself to blame for the circumstances surrounding his appointment. There is no doubt in the world that a Labor person would have been appointed to that Senate vacancy if a second choice had been made by the Party. In fact a Labor person was appointed. It is to be regretted that  Senator Field  cannot be in this chamber now because it is my opinion that he would see that the right thing was done. I honestly believe that.  His  appointment has nothing to do with this question. Suffice to say that the Opposition is leaning on the fact that a duly appointed Labor representative- one who was a 
Labor representative when he was appointed but who was expelled from the Labor Party- is not present. I think he might have voted the way the Government would have liked him to have voted. I wish to say a few words in connection with my appointment. I think I may have brought to the Senate a breath of fresh air, untainted by the dishonesty of purpose so apparent in the Party system. 
The economy is showing some improvement, as has been recognised on both sides. Much has been said about inflation and unemployment. The Government is not entitled to all the credit or all the blame for the state of the economy. There is much more than that to the state of the economy. One of the things which is wrong with the economy today, with the adverse conditions which we have- with the high rate of inflation and the high rate of unemployment- is undoubtedly the position which has been created by arbitration. All of us subscribe to the principles of arbitration. It is necessary. The fact remains that in arriving at wages and salaries no restraint has been placed on the cost of every day things. No restraint has been placed on the fees charged by all professions. Very little attention has been paid to the unfortunate position in which primary producers have found themselves. Once wages and salaries are fixed without taking into account the productivity of the land in this rural producing country, it is very difficult to have a stable economy. That is the state of affairs which we have. I do not blame the Government for that state of affairs. I give the Opposition no credit for placing the blame on the Government in this connection. I feel that if it had been in office the position would be just as bad. I honestly think so. I think a determined attempt has been made by the Government, by its policy of wage indexation, to improve the position. I have previously complimented  Senator James  McClelland on this score. I do so again. I think the Government is making a determined effort to combat inflation and to create a better state of affairs in connection with employment. 
There are differing opinions about this matter.  Sir Robert  Menzies has been quoted very freely today. I will take the liberty to quote that honourable gentleman. He said: 
Senate command of Government by a party in a minority in the House of Representatives would be absurd. 
He also said on another occasion, as reported in  Hansard: 
In the end result, the Senate has a full power of rejecting any Bill but argues that the exercise ofthe power would create an impossible situation and would make popular government unworkable. 
Some other very interesting comments have been made. A member of the Opposition in the other House,  Mr D.  J. Killen, writing in the  CourierMail  on 10 April 1974, which was the morning on which the Senate acted, argued that it was the nature of the Supply Bills and the wording of section 53 of the Constitution which prevented the Senate from rejecting Supply.  His  argument was that as a government which is denied Supply cannot continue in office the failure by the Senate to pass Supply Bills would automatically result in a dissolution of the House of Representatives. He pointed out that in a normal case, where the conditions required by section 57 of the Constitution for a double dissolution did not exist, the Senate would not face dissolution. He further pointed out that it was not within the power of the House of Representatives to force the Senate to an election. Accordingly, he argued, not only was the situation one which the majority of Australians would regard as absurd but if the Senate were to adopt this course it would mean that the terms of section 53 of the Constitution were being trampled on because the Senate would not have equal power with the House of Representatives but greater power. 
The argument of  Mr Killen  was based, as was that of  Sir Robert  Menzies, on the principles of democracy underlying the Constitution. It goes further, however, in suggesting that the words of section 53 themselves prohibit the Senate from having greater power than the House of Representatives, thus preventing a rejection of Supply by the Senate. Section 53 is, however, a statement of the powers of each House in respect of all proposed laws; it is the capacity of each House to deal in particular ways with individual Bills with which the section is concerned, not the powers of either House to force a dissolution of the other. It would appear, therefore, that although there may be arguments based on underlying principles which can be used to deny the propriety of a rejection of Supply by the Senate, the words of section 53 cannot be used to deny the basic power to do so. 
We have heard quotes from many eminent authorities on the Constitution. I quote  Mr J.  R. Odgers in the  Australian Senate Practice.  He does not agree that the Senate should not exercise its power to reject Supply. He believes that the Senate's power to refuse to join in the granting of Supply is its greatest power, which can be exercised in relation to both the House of Representatives and the Executive Government. He stated: 
The only restrictions on the exercise by the Senate of its financial powers are the restraint which it traditionally exercises and the electoral sanction. A Senate which used its powers capriciously could suffer only one fate- punishment at the ballot box. But, a Senate which correctly interprets the mood of the electorate, has a quite remarkable annual opportunity- by refusing to join in the grant of Supply- to bring about the dissolution of the House of Representatives and the resignation of the Government which that House virtually appoints. 
It is interesting to note that the electoral sanction will not, unless there is a double dissolution or an impending half Senate election, be likely to affect the Senate at all. It is more likely to be the political allies in the House of Representatives of those majority senators who capriciously exercise their powers who are likely to suffer such punishment. 
So we have a conflict of opinion on this matter. It is necessary that before action which would unduly affect the Constitution is taken great care be exercised to see that the wrong thing is not done. I have mentioned eminent authorities on the Constitution. Might I be privileged to refer to one of our modern statesmen-  Senator Steele  Hall. Seeing that an impasse would be created he contacted the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  by letter dated 1 October, in which he said: 
I am concerned about the continuing uncertainty regarding your position and that of the Liberal Party in regard to a possible rejection of Supply in the Senate. 
There are almost no limits to the complexities which are now being discussed as a possible result of such an action. For instance, it has been suggested on the one hand that the Governor-General may be the centre of a constitutional storm involving an Appropriation Bill which could be presented to him without passage through the Senate. On the other hand, it is suggested that non-Labor Premiers may not respond to a Government initiative to call out only half the Senate, and may refuse to issue writs for such an election. 
That was written on 1 October. Have not  Senator Hall's  words come true. He went on and made this further statement: 
I hope you will at least consider my prediction that if you take or attempt to take the Prime Minister's office, by the device of a vote in the Senate, your leadership capacity will automatically degenerate to the disadvantage of the Liberal Party. 
It would be extremely difficult to develop a popular base for your leadership in a community which contained the bitter and growing discontent of Labor supporters who believed the ballot box had lost its democratic function. 
Strategically, our non-Labor side of politics must surely be better served by planning to win a significant number of years of office at a normal election rather than by prejudicing the length of that office by grabbing at 16 or 17 months of Labor's remaining term. 
If . . . you 'assemble' your members in the Senate to reject supply, you will consciously destroy the stability of Australian politics- 
These are  Senator Steele  Hall's words; I am an Independent-  which we, as Liberals have grown to expect under our own administrations since 1 949. 
What wise counsel that was by my colleague  Senator Steele  Hall. I sincerely trust that even at this late stage it may be possible for the opportunity extended by  Senator Hall  to bear fruit. I have no doubt that Supply should be granted and that a half-Senate election should be proceeded with. That would maintain the status quo which has applied ever since Federation. There has been that understanding of the status quo, and there is no good and sufficient reason why Supply should not be granted. The position today is that a grave disquiet has been created amongst the people generally. So much is at stake in the interests of parliamentary democracy. A vital function of government today is to legislate to bring all people together on a common citizenship basis, where capital and labour each have a part to play and, by working in partnership, create an atmosphere of well-being for the people generally. 
I close on this note: During 1975 108 Bills were passed by this Senate and 9 Bills were rejected. The Bills that have been passed include the Australian Housing Corporation Bill, the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill, the Australian National Railways Bill, the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, the Customs Bill, the Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Bill, the Customs Tariff Validation Bill, the Dairy Produce Bill, the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Bill, the Dried Fruits Export Charges Bill, the Fisheries Bill, the Grants Commission Bill, the Health Insurance Bill, the Loans (Australian Shipping Commission) Bill, the Loan (War Services Land Settlement) Bill, the Pig Slaughter Levy Bill, the Pig Slaughter Levy Collection Bill, the Pig Industry Research Bill, the Pig Meat Promotion Bill, the Postal Services Bill, the Postal and Telecommunications (Transitional Provisions) Bill, the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Bill, and the Wool Tax Bills Nos 1 to 5. That goes to prove that it cannot be claimed that this Government has been inactive. It goes to prove that the mandate which was given to this Government as a result of the promises made prior to the election has been carried into effect. 
It goes to show,  Senator Baume,  that those Bills have been passed. You say that the Senate has not been obstructive. 
That is so; in those instances there is no doubt in the world that the Senate was not obstructive, but that does not verify or confirm the contents of this amendment, which suggests that the Government has been doing everything wrong, has been deceitful and so on. Today there is no doubt that the finger cannot be pointed at the Government. Let us be fair and honest in our approach to these matters. Might I say also that some Bills have been rejected by the Senate, and included in those Bills- which incidentally I assisted to have rejected- are the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill, Bills in connection with electoral boundaries and the Purchasing Commission Bill. The Superannuation Bill was refused; I supported that. Much has been said about this Government not acting in the best interests of the community. Yet there is a record of service in these Bills which proves conclusively that the Government has played its part nobly and well. It therefore amazes me that such irrelevancies can be put forward when the Senate has presented to it Appropriation Bills which normally should be passed. I have very much pleasure in indicating my opposition to the amendment and in supporting the Appropriation Bills. 
I present the following petition from 16 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
The denial of supply has polarised the Australian people and has brought the Australian Parliamentary system into contempt and ridicule both at home and abroad and, if continued, will cause undue hardship to many and cause chaos in significant sectors Qf industry and commerce. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable Senators will grant supply expeditiously. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-1 ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Environment. In the light of 2 disastrous floods in the Murray River within a year, the present flood being the worst on record, when can the report dealing with the control of the Murray River system be expected to be presented to Parliament? I understand a committee is studying the desirability of increasing the authority of the River Murray Commission, or of establishing some other body to cover flood mitigation, erosion, pollution, environment and navigation. The present charter of the River Murray Commission relates only to irrigation. 
For the third week in succession I am privileged to speak to the Appropriation Bills. As time has gone on I have become more convinced than ever that the Senate should grant Supply. I do not desire to embark upon repetition, but I would like to say that there is a question to which I have referred previously and to which I again refer which is the main component of this whole discussion. The one question before the House in relation to these Bills is whether Supply will be granted on the authenticity of the Bills themselves. In the whole discussion which took place on the 2 discussions previously and which has taken place so far today very little, if any, reference has been made to the Appropriation Bills and the need to grant Supply. We have had red herrings drawn across the trail in connection with the doings or misdoings of the Government, which is a state of affairs that one would expect to see in the party political arena. Unfortunately we are losing the substance for the shadow. 
The question of whether the Senate grants Supply is a matter which should be considered entirely on the merits of the Budget. It is to the credit of members of the Senate, more particularly to those of the Opposition, that the Estimates were gone through with a fine-tooth comb. Questions were asked on them and those questions were answered. It was very evident to me, as a member of one of those Senate committees, that it was necessary to ask those questions. It was also evident to me that the replies received were most satisfactory. When all is said and done, the government of the day recommends policy, the Parliament of the day endorses or rejects that policy, the Minister issues instruction in accordance with the parliamentary decision, and departmental heads implement the scheme. They act irrespective of the government which is in power. So the only thing that matters in connection with policy is what the Parliament has accepted, because funds are required only for that legislation which is accepted by the Parliament. When we realise that the departmental heads have done great credit to themselves in answering all the questions which were asked and that this questioning was extended over a period which was 5, 6 or 7 times greater than in any period previously, it goes to show how very definite members of the Senate were that they should have the truth in connection with the Appropriation Bills. We have it. 
The main issue is clouded by things outside the actual Bills which are before the Parliament. My support for the granting of Supply is given because I maintain that the Appropriation Bills, as part of the Budget, are responsible and have borne out the requirements of a very close examination. If we are prepared to refuse the granting of Supply we are creating a breakdown in parliamentary democracy. We are creating a state of affairs which strikes at the very heart of the Constitution, about which we have heard so much, and which strikes at the very heart of the people who have elected folk to Parliament. I was somewhat intrigued when I examined closely the amendment which the Opposition presented previously. 1 have no doubt that, in accordance with the Constitution, the Senate can block Supply. Let me read out some of the phrases contained in the Opposition 's previous amendment. It stated: 
That the powers of the Senate were expressly conferred on the Senate as part of the Federal Compact which created the Commonwealth of Australia. 
That the legislative power of the Commonwealth is vested in the Parliament of the Commonwealth which consists of the Queen, the Senate and House of Representatives. 
That the Senate has the right and duty to exercise its legislative power and to concur or not to concur, as the Senate sees fit, bearing in mind the seriousness and responsibility of its actions, in all proposed laws passed by the House of Representatives. 
That there is no convention and never has been any convention that the Senate shall not exercise its constitutional powers. 
That the Senate affirms that it has the constitutional right to act as it did and now that there is a disagreement between the Houses of the Parliament and a position may arise where the normal operations of government cannot continue, a remedy is presently available to the Government under section 57 of the Constitution to resolve the deadlock. 
Let me refer particularly to one of those paragraphs. I refer to the words 'bearing in mind the seriousness and responsibility of its actions, in all proposed laws passed by the House of Representatives'. I point out to the Senate that the numbers in the House of Representatives are only slightly in favour of the Government, and the numbers in the Senate are very, very slightly in favour of the Opposition. In view of the closeness of these numbers, and more particularly in view of the fact that a deceased senator's place is not now occupied- that deceased senator was on the side of the Government- I think it would be only right and reasonable to assume that in this situation the. Opposition would not have played the game as it is playing it. The numbers are so close. If there were big majorities either way I would take an entirely different view of that aspect. I do not base my argument on convention. It has no substance in law. Convention represents an implied arrangement at a specific time and is, and should be, subject to change. There is no doubt in the world about that. The changes in convention of which we have heard so much have been brought about by the new conditions which prevail today, however there cannot be any breakdown in basic fundamentals. 
What is the basic fundamental in connection with this issue? Surely the basic fundamental is that the Government must . be permitted to govern and must be supplied with necessary funds. Why should this be so? It is because the Constitution requires a government to be elected every 3 years and because the expressed will of the electors should be observed in a democratic society. The Constitution does not give the Senate the right to demand an election each year. It gives the Senate the right to reject Supply. It gives the Senate the right to reject Bills, but it does not give the Senate the right to force an election at its behest. It is only a matter of party politics that brings that state of affairs into being. As an independent senator I shall raise my voice very loudly in an endeavour to get people to judge these matters on their merits and in accordance with the democratic system. 
By refusing Supply the Opposition is abusing a privilege bequeathed by the Constitution. What does the Opposition say? It says, in reality: There is nothing wrong with these Appropriation Bills. We are prepared to pass them' but only in accordance with the amendment, namely, that the Bills be not further proceeded with until the Government agrees to submit itself to the judgment of the people '. About 1 7 months ago this Government submitted itself to the judgment of the people as a result of pressure such as that which is now being exerted. The result was that the people confirmed the Government's actions. It has been proved repeatedly that there is no substitute for the democratic system. That system had its birth in the Parliament of the land, and it must be preserved by the Parliament. 
During this debate we have heard many eminent jurists discussed and their opinions given. I take the privilege of introducing into this discussion a new jurist in the person of  Mr R.  E. McGarvie, Q.C., who wrote a letter which was published in the Melbourne  Age  yesterday. I agree entirely with the letter. It is headed 'The great risk is totalitarianism'. I quote from the letter: 
I fear that the Opposition's blocking of Supply in the Senate, if it succeeds in its objective, could bring about changes in political attitudes and assumptions quite capable of leading to totalitarian government within a decade. 
I believe parliamentary democracy to be the only acceptable form of government for Australia. Despite the rapid changes of our times it can effectively eliminate injustice and make the necessary reforms. But many who have been troubled by social injustices in the community have questioned the ability of democracy to remedy them. They believed that if a reforming Government actually took determined steps in the interests of the under-privileged, the conservative establishment would soon displace it by changing the ground rules. If the denial of Supply were allowed to lead to the displacement of the Government the number of doubters of democracy would increase alarmingly. 
To make the parliamentary system workable all parties, from Federation to 1974, acted so that the party with the House of Representatives majority continued in government for its term. Reliance on the constitutional power to reject Supply misses the point. The continuation of democracy requires political parties to do more than exact their constitutional pound of flesh. It requires restraint so as to comply with the basic assumptions and practices that make democracy workable. It is well to remember that most of what was done by Hitler was done within constitutional power. 
That means simply that loyalty, understanding and a love of people is necessary, as opposed to tyranny and oppression under other systems of government. That is the difference between the 2 systems of democracy and totalitarianism. Australia has been very successful in working under the democratic form of government throughout the years, with the 2 political parties in the main respecting each other and accepting the will of the people at the ballot box. Indeed, that is the state of affairs which should apply for all time. It would appear that in the main everything that the Party in government does is condemned by the Opposition, irrespective of which Party is in opposition. I mentioned the other night that in excess of 100 Bills have been passed by the Parliament this year. Some of those Bills have contained some socialistic flavour. Those Bills were passed, and passed unanimously, by the Opposition. Now the Opposition is refusing Supply, and this means that the normal general functioning of Parliament cannot proceed, that things have to come to a standstill, and indeed that legislation which this Parliament passednot only the Government but this Parliamentcannot be carried into effect. I am one of the few members of the Senate who have opposed two or three motions- I have opposed them more or less on my own but with the assistance of one or two members of the Opposition- because I am opposed wholeheartedly to the setting up of commissions, authorities and so on which seek to bring new forms of parliamentary procedure into effect. Such legislation can be, and has been in the past, carried out by officers of the various departments. 
To me the position is very clear. If we are to have responsible government we need to have responsible people on both sides of the Parliament- people who are prepared to accept the will of the people. How often we hear people express their opinions. My mail box has been completely full every day for the last 3 weeks. I have received letters from a cross-section of the Australian community. Strange to relate, most of the letters have come from States other than New South Wales. There has been only the odd letter which has not complimented me on the stand that I have taken in connection with the Appropriation Bills. People of all sorts of political persuasions- ex-members of the Liberal Party, ex-members of the Country Party, and of course members of the Labor Party, but also many people of independent thought- have in the first instance complimented me on my independence in relation to this matter. They said that they were proud to be members of my Party because I was prepared to look at this matter in its true light. 
I take notice of these letters because it is the inherent right of the people to express themselves and it is the inherent right of people to expect government for the people by the people. For the Opposition to seek a change of government at this time by using the power of the Senate to block Supply is to use that power in a way which threatens the future of stable government and brings great hardship on many people. Let me again say that people expect government for the people by the people. They do not expect to be pushed around by the Party political machine. They desire fair play in parliamentary matters, the same as in other matters. So we find that there is a disquiet amongst the people. 
Much has been said about the ineptitude of the Government. All the blame for the depressions, inflation and unemployment has been thrust upon the Government. Through the years depressions have come and gone, inflation has come and gone, and the employment figures rise and fall. I do not give the Government all the credit or the blame for the pluses or for the minuses. Many factors bring about depressions, and many factors can cure them. Governments only have a part to play. I was rather interested to hear  Senator Davidson  make reference to the changes in the opinions expressed by many people who have been privileged to speak in parliamentary debates. I admit that what he said is very true, but I go so far as to say that that is the legacy of Party politics. Unfortunately Party politicians speak according to the whim and feeling of the Party at the particular moment. They ask: 'What is going to suit my Party best?' Neither of the major political parties is immune from that statement. Indeed, if we could look at things from an independent point of view or from a general point of view, in accordance with our democratic system of government, we would find a much better state of affairs developing. 
I do not desire to detain the Senate any longer. Suffice to say that there is nothing abnormal about the Appropriation Bills which are before the Parliament. There is nothing abnormal about the priorities which have been extended in those Appropriation Bills. There is nothing abnormal in finding funds to finance the philosophies which have been advanced. We are living in a world of change. We are living at a time when there is plenty for all, and we should have a government to see that that plenty for all is made available to all. I have been accused of being a socialist. Let me tell those who have made that accusation that I am a super-democrat. I am one of those who values greatly indeed the blessings which have been bestowed upon me, upon other honourable gentlemen and upon the Australian community by the system of" democracy. That system of democracy is now at stake. It is unwise to allow that situation to continue. The Opposition has drawn a red herring across the trail by looking for all types of advantages from refusing Supply, instead of looking at the Appropriation Bills according to their merit. The refusal of Supply is entirely unjustified, and this country will be done an immense amount of harm if the Opposition succeeds in its mission. 
I present the following petition from 100 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the decisions of the Australian Government, 
To depart from its 1972 election promise that basic pensions would be related to average weekly earnings and never be allowed to fall below 25 per cent thereof, and 
To increase postage costs and the costs of installation and annual rental of telephones, will seriously add to the economic burdens now borne by those citizens who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pensions. 
Your petitioners are impelled by these facts to call upon the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to review the abovementioned decisions (a) and (b), and to determine 
That pensions be related to average earnings as promised by the Prime Minister in his 1972 policy speech, and 
That no charge be made for installation or rental on the telephones of those pensioners entitled to a P.M.S. card. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 - Mr President, as has been stated by the Leader of the Government in the  Senator (Senator Wriedt),  this matter has been discussed very fully, and repetition should be avoided. I desire to say just a few short words about this matter. We definitely have a constitutional crisis on our hands, and we also have a political crisis on our hands. I was prompted to speak because of the answer which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  gave to a question in the other House yesterday morning. I am inclined to the opinion that the action which has been taken by the Oppositionthe present Government when in Opposition in 1970 by endeavouring to prevent supply- was contrary to the Constitution. I wish to make reference to the matter. I preface my remarks by reading the reply which the Prime Minister gave to a question yesterday morning.  Mr Whitlam  is recorded in  Hansard  as having said: 
I believe the people have made it quite plain and I believe before very long the Senate itself will accept that the Senate is not entitled to usurp the money powers of this Parliament. Section S3 of the Constitution lays down the Senate's powers as regards money Bills. It says it cannot initiate them. It says it cannot amend them. It says that it can request the House of Representatives to amend them and that the House of Representatives may accede to that request or may reject it. Section 53 of the Constitution, it will be noted, does not expressly say that the Senate can reject money Bills. 
Actually the Constitution goes further than that. Firstly, the Parliament of Australia consists of the Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives. Of course, the GovernorGeneral acts in the place of the Queen. It is recognised that this Parliament shall be a 3 tier parliament: The Governor-General, the Senate and the House of Representatives. But section 53 of the Constitution is very explicit with respect to money Bills. It reads as follows: 
Proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys, or imposing taxation, shall not originate in the Senate. But a proposed law shall not be taken to appropriate revenue or moneys, or to impose taxation, by reason only of its containing provisions for the imposition or appropriation of fines or other pecuniary penalties, or for the demand or payment or appropriation of fees for licences, or fees for services under the proposed law. 
The Senate may not amend proposed laws imposing taxation, or proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys for the ordinary annual services of the Government. 
The Senate may not amend any proposed law so as to increase any proposed charge or burden on the people. 
The Senate may at any stage return to the House of Representatives any proposed law which the Senate may not amend, requesting, by message, the omission or amendment of any items or provisions therein. And the House of Representatives may, if it thinks fit, make any of such omissions or amendments, with or without modifications. 
Except as provided in this section, the Senate shall have equal power with the House of Representatives in respect of all proposed laws. 
This is a saving clause which is put there for a specific purpose but it definitely suggests a very complete implication that the Senate is not the controlling element as far as Appropriation Bills and money Bills generally are concerned. 
I should like to see this matter referred to the High Court. We have referred many matters of a trivial nature compared to this to the High Court. We have on our hands a constitutional crisis. We have on our hands a party political crisis. This situation was brought before the Senate in 1970 by the then Opposition, the Labor Party, and was furiously and strenuously opposed by the Government of the day. We have today a situation which is exactly the same as arose in 1 970 but in which the parties are reversed. Surely the time has arrived when it is necessary to have this position clarified. 
I do not know. 
-I do not know. But the fact remains that it is very evident that the position is such that the Senate cannot override the House of Representatives in the matter of Appropriation Bills. 
I can understand normal English. I can understand written law. There is no doubting the fact that it was never intended by the framers of the Constitution that that should be the case. Indeed, we find here today, as we have found all along the line, that this sort of thing would not have applied but for the party political influences coming into effect. I agree wholeheartedly with the opinion expressed by the Prime Minister in resting on section 53 of the Constitution in the stand that he has taken on this matter. 
