Does the Minister representing the Postmaster-General know that letters were posted to members of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union of Australia by the union secretary informing them that union officials had negotiated a cessation of the recent postal delivery strike but telling members that no overtime was to be worked in order to clear accumulated mail? Is it correct that the delivery of these letters was delayed along with millions of others? ls it correct that a request was made by the APWU to the postal sorters asking them to locate these letters to see whether they could be speedily delivered? If this report is correct, will the Postmaster-General state whether similar requests by other business organisations or Individuals will be similarly dealt with and rapid delivery of mail guaranteed? 
1 ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether he is aware of a new scheme which has been introduced by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia which affects passengers needing to travel from one capital city through a second to reach a third? Is he aware that in such a case, if the passenger decides to break his journey at the intermediate point before proceeding to his final destination he is compelled to pay extra? By way of explanation, may I point out that a passenger going from Canberra through Sydney to Adelaide has to pay $12 more to break his journey at Sydney. As residents of South Australia wishing to reach Sydney or parts beyond are already grossly disadvantaged by the scarcity of scheduled flights from Adelaide as compared with residents of Melbourne and Sydney, who have at least two flights every hour between those two cities, will the Minister take urgent action to have this discriminator)' penalty charge eliminated forthwith? 
1 address a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral and as a preface I point out that yesterday I asked the Minister whether it was not a fact that the Secretary of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union of Australia in Adelaide had written letters to union members informing them of successful negotiations for the cessation of the postal workers' strike and instructing them not to work overtime to help reduce the backlog of undistributed mail. I also asked if, finding those letters undelivered, as were millions of others, he then asked if these letters could be specially located in order to have them speedily delivered ahead of other urgently needed letters. I now ask the Minister: Can she give the Senate any information concerning such infamous discriminatory behaviour on the part of a union responsible for causing such inconvenience to the general public yet not above asking favours for itself? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that high protein or hard wheat is very much in demand overseas? Is Australia able to supply all the hard wheat for which there is demand? Is there a quota imposed on hard wheat growers to the same degree as for growers of f.a.q. wheat? Are there any facilities at country receiving centres - namely, silos under the direct control of the Australian Wheat Board - for testing the protein content of incoming wheat? If not, how can hard wheat be distinguished from f.a.q. wheat? Is it possible that the two types are being blended? Will the Minister take urgent steps to have adequate facilities installed to encourage possible growers of hard wheat to grow enough high protein wheat to fulfil all obtainable overseas orders? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware of the timely warning given in Melbourne by  Dr Prescott- 
 My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask: Is it the responsibility of the Government, the Parliament, or the National Capital Development Commission to decide where and when the National Art Gallery and the High Court shall be built in Canberra? Is it likely that a debate will be instigated in Parliament concerning these important national matters? If Parliament comes to a majority decision will this decision then be completely ignored by the National Capital Development Commission which will proceed to site the buildings where it likes? When can the Senate expect to have a statement by some responsible authority concerning these matters? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the fact that South Australian people are so badly served by the 2- airline policy, there being 2 aircraft leaving simultaneously direct for Sydney at 7.10 a.m. and 5.45 p.m. and only 3 regular daily flights to Melbourne, plus a few occasional irregular ones, and no direct flights between Adelaide and the national capital, while there are planes leaving every hour throughout the day between Melbourne and Sydney and frequent planes to Canberra from these cities, would the Minister consider licensing a third airline which would be willing to give good service to the less frequented air routes? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Supply been drawn to a leading article in to-day's 'Australian Financial Review' dealing with governmental offset orders? Will he comment on the implied criticism of his Department in that part of the article which states that the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow is in part idle through lack of work loads? 
asked the Minister  representing  the  Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that high protein or hard wheat is very much in demand overseas. 
Is Australia able to supply all the hard wheat for which there is demand. 
Is there a quota imposed on hard wheat growers to the same degree as for growers of FAQ wheat. 
Are there any facilities at country receiving centres - viz. silos under the direct control of the Australian Wheat Board - for testing the protein content of incoming wheat; if not, how can hard wheat be distinguished from FAQ wheat. 
Is it possible that the two types are being blended. 
Would the Minister take urgent steps to have adequate facilities installed to encourage possible growers of hard wheat to grow enough high protein wheat to fulfill all possible overseas orders. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Is it a fact that Australia is now likely to take Phantom aircraft as a stopgap until FI 11Cs are available? if this is correct, can the Minister tell the Senate whether the Royal Australian Air Force has any Phantom pilots available? If not. how long would it lake to train pilots to fly those aircraft? Would the Phantom do the job that the Fill is designed to do and thus render unnecessary further anxiety over the supply of F1 1 ls? 
 I rise to support the legislation which is before the Senate, which seeks to ratify an amendment to the River Murray Waters Agreement to provide for the construction of a major storage near Dartmouth. It seems to me to boil down to a question of whether South Australia wants water or a dam inside its own borders. 1 believe that it needs water. Water is vital to South Australia. It must be assured of water. South Australia must get more water. The only way in which South Australia will be able to develop its irrigation areas and the secondary industries in its cities and suburbs is if South Australia is assured that it will be able to get more water in the future than it is able to get at present, particularly in times of restrictions. We can only develop our industries up to the point at which we are assured of water in times of restrictions. 
A lot has been said about the large quantity of water which is flowing out of the mouth of the Murray River. Of course it goes out of the mouth of the river in a normal year but, unless we were to use that water only in normal years, in dmes of restrictions when there is less water those people who are dependent on the water would be deprived of it. This would be a most uneconomic way of developing our State. Certainly it is to the credit of the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Steele  Hall, that he has been able to negotiate with the other States and the Commonwealth a guarantee of more water through the construction of a dam at Dartmouth than through the construction of a clam at Chowilla. This is, of course, a significant point. At present South Australia has a guarantee of 1.254 million acre feet of water. When this amendment to the Agreement is ratified by all States - and I certainly hope that eventually it will be ratified by South Australia - we will have more water. Of course, if it is not ratified by South Australia we simply will not have water. We will not have either dam because the other 3 parties to the River Murray Waters Agreement have said that they do not agree with the construction of a dam at Chowilla. Therefore, without Dartmouth, South Australia will not be able to get its guarantee of 1.5 million acre feet of water, which is the increase  Mr Steele  Hall was able lo negotiate. lt is important that South Australia should have more water than it can use in order to flush out the river. Only in the last few years have people realised that some of the water they see flowing down the river and out of the mouth is doing so in order to flush out the river. It was only when we were discussing the Snowy Mountains agreement in this place a few years ago that it became clear that we needed a great deal of water to flush out the river in its lower reaches in South Australia. Salt comes out of the cliffs and into the Murray River, particularly around Waikerie. 
I have never supported Chowilla alone. I have said all along that South Australia needs more water. We need as much water as we can get. Therefore, I support whichever dam is agreed upon which will assure South Australia of water. At no stage have I said Chowilla is the only dam we .should support. 
 I have not said that. 1 will develop my theme as I go along. 1 am horrified at the plan which has been put forward by some people for the construction of 2 dams at once. I think this is quite ridiculous, lt is not feasible to expect the construction of  1  dams at the same time. I do not think that it would provide us with the benefits that we want. If the Dartmouth proposal is proceeded with we have been promised an extra allocation of water. If we proceed with Chowilla we will not get a further allocation of water. The water would be used further up the river by the States of New South Wales and Victoria and there would not be enough coming down to a dam at Chowilla. It is necessary to reach an agreement with the other States for the allowance of sufficient water to come down the river to fill the dam. Without such an agreement the dam would be quite useless. 
We have an agreement for the supply of a certain amount of water. The honourable senator is referring to the agreement in relation to the Chowilla project. If the Dartmouth proposition is accepted we will get extra water, which is important to me. I hope that there will be more dams constructed on the river at a later stage. Undoubtedly there will be. We must harness the River Murray. We have to harness it because there is no other way of obtaining water for South Australia. Undoubtedly further dams will be constructed on it. I support the building of a dam at Chowilla. I hope that a dam at Chowilla is the next one to be built. But I am not so unreasonable as to ask for both to be built at once. If we can get the 4 parties to the River Murray Waters Agreement to agree to the construction of a dam at Chowilla at a later stage then undoubtedly South Australia will be given its entitlement of extra water from it. But unless we get that entitlement it is useless to say: 'We want a dam in South Australia. Regardless of what you are going to give us, we want that dam'. As I said earlier, the States upstream would be able to use the water and we would be getting more saline water. Up to now Victoria has been returning quite a bit of drainage water into the Murray, which has increased the salinity lower down the river. The next important thing that will happen is that Victoria will drain the river back into evaporation pans and not increase salinity further down the river. This is one of the things which were studied when the Chowilla investigations were being carried out. Eventually it was found that Chowilla would not increase salinity, although at one stage it was thought that it might. But it was also found that it would do nothing to reduce salinity. 
I think that is not quite right. A final report will come out in about 2 months and 1 think we should both wait to clear up that point. 1 am quite convinced that the report has not so far said that Chowilla would reduce salinity. I think it is important, too, to note that computer tests have been carried out on what would happen if we had Dartmouth dam only or Chowilla dam only. I have seen those computer tests and they are most convincing. They show that Chowilla would not have given South Australia its entitlement in all years of restriction. It would iron out some peaks but in 3 past years South Australia would not have been able to obtain its allocation in years of restriction if Chowilla had been operating. With Dartmouth, South Australia would in those years have obtained its entitlement. This is the important thing. South Australia does need to have that entitlement in years of restriction. 
A great deal is being said about Lake Victoria. Some tests have been done now by the technical committee of the River Murray Commission to find out whether it will be of advantage to widen the inlets and outlets of Lake Victoria. It will be advantageous to South Australia if we can have more water in times of flood diverted into Lake Victoria and then allowed to come down the river in the ordinary way. It will help to mitigate flooding. At present in times of flood with the rather narrow inlet and outlet to Lake Victoria there is no check to the flooding, no way of holding the floodwaters and releasing them into South Australia at a later stage. 
Chowilla would have a great problem of evaporation. 1 think this problem has been overlooked. Sometimes it is asked why we have not gone on with the building of Chowilla as was advocated in the time of  Sir Thomas  Playford. There were a great many miscalculations at that time. For one thing, the cost was miscalculated and it has now escalated to an absurd stage where, obviously, it is more advantageous to all States to build the Dartmouth dam. With Chowilla there would have been something like 250,000 acre feet of water - 1 would not like to be held to the exact figure - to be divided between the 2 States after South Australia had its entitlement. With the Dartmouth dam there is about I million acre feel of wafer to be divided between hose 2 States, lt is reasonable if New South Wales and Victoria have to contribute to the building of the Dartmouth dam - obviously there will be added benefits for those  I  States - thai South Australia should agree (o build whichever dam will give added benefits to all 3 States. This is what is now happening. 
Incorrect assessments were certainly made in those early days as to the evaporation rate at Chowilla, and as to the amount of area to be covered. This is the first mistake in connection with the evaporation rate. If the investigators found that the area to be covered was less than it actually was, then obviously they could nol calculate the evaporation rate. Certainly in the more recent droughts, they have been able to find out that South Australia finished up with more water at the lower end although there was nothing in the Hume dam. It is from the Hume thai all States begin to obtain their entitlement. This certainly indicates that the Hume dam has been unregulated. I have been making this point all along. The whole of the River Murray must be regulated in order to benefit all States. This is why I say that there will undoubtedly be more dams built and more regulation of the River as the years go along. [ am quite sure that South Australia will be able to advocate the building of Chowilla and I am sure it will go ahead. 
 We are getting a pretty fair deal now with the Dartmouth dam and obtaining more allocation than we would have obtained from Chowilla. I think the Labor Party forgets this point. Do we want more water or do we want only a dam? 1 found it interesting to read these amendments which have been put forward by  Senator Bishop.  In the first place ihe amendment says that the States should wail until there is a national water conservation and constructing authority embracing the Snowy Moimiains Authority before we pass this Bill. 
 I will read it again: 
The Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Commonwealth has negotiated with the States for the establishment of a national water conservation and constructing authority. 
If we wait for that we are never going to get either dam. The important point is that we need water and we need the assurance of water as soon as possible. For heaven's sake, do not let us pass an amendment which says that we should wait until we have negotiated for a water conservation authority. This would certainly hold up the supply of the water and the building of the dam. The other amendment says that we should not approve of this Bill:  until an immediate computer evaluation of the construction of storage of various capacities at both Dartmouth and Chowilla has been completed. 
I have just said that this has been done. I have seen those studies. 
I am telling you about them. Those studies show that the peaks would have been ironed out, but in the 3 years of restriction that have transpired South Australia would not have obtained its entitlement with Chowilla, but would have with Dartmouth - with one exception: In one year South Australia would have been short 76,000 acre feet, which is  a  very insignificant amount of water. 
They have been studied. The important thing is that we  Save  to go along with the River Murray Commission. We must have the agreement of all 4 parties to that Commission. If they  tell  us they are not going to agree to Chowilla what is the good of arguing that we need Chowilla? They are not going to give it to us. They are not going to induce water to come down for us. They are not going to pay for it. We hear arguments from the Labor Party in South Australia that if we had the water in South Australia nobody could stop us using it. They can stop us obtaining it in other years. They can use the water further upstream. We cannot go in the face of the River Murray Commission and say that we are going to use the water in a year of restriction, because we simply would not get it at another time. It is unrealistic to say that we ought to defy the River Murray Commission and say: 'Give us the water in our State. We will do what we like.' 
Some people have asked: Who is going to guarantee that we get this extra allocation of li million acre feet of water. The River Murray Commission has guaranteed it. Do people disbelieve the River Murray Commission which comprises representatives of 3 States and the Commonwealth? It is unrealistic to say that we cannot accept the assurance that the River Murray is going to guarantee the supply of water. The question was asked: 'Who is going to measure the amount of water?' The water is measured upstream at the Hume dam. South Australia knows exactly how much it is going to be given. I cannot see any answer- 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Whilst giving generous and sincere praise to the many efficient and courteous departmental officers who do their utmost to be co-operative and helpful, I ask: Is the Prime Minister conscious of the number of frustrations, delays, red tape procedures and unnecessary inconveniences suffered by the general public at the hands of some government departmental officers? Is he also aware of the fact that as representatives of the people, honourable senators are frequently asked to inquire into or to iron out or to endeavour to speed up bureaucratic processes which would not be tolerated in private enterprises? Does the Minister also know how often the blame for such delay is shuffled between State and Commonwealth departments, with resultant additional annoyance to the public? Will the Prime Minister take steps to ensure that all Commonwealth departments at all levels are alerted to the need to speed up processing and make sure that at least the Commonwealth Government's housekeeping is in order? 
When this debate was adjourned last week I was expressing my support of the Bill before the Senate, the purpose of which is to ratify and approve an agreement for a further variation of the agreement entered into between the Premiers of the three States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia for further alterations to the River Murray Waters Agreement. To my mind this is a very great and important issue for the whole of Australia, and certainly for South Australia. Under this Agreement more water will be stored in the River Murray, and as so many of the States are dependent on the River Murray this obviously must be a most important issue. It certainly has been proved from computer studies that the times of water restriction in South Australia will be reduced after the construction of the Dartmouth Dam. The studies have shown that if the Dartmouth Dam had been in operation during previous years, on only one occasion would South Australia not have received its entitlement of H million acre feet. Even in that year the shortage would have been only 75,000 acre feet which is a comparatively small quantity. If the Chowilla Dam had been in operation over those years, and not the Dartmouth Dam, the computer studies show that South Australia would have been short of water in a greater number of years, and certainly there would have been other problems. 
The important point Is that the estimated possible cost of Chowilla has increased from S28m, which was the figure given in the early stages of investigation, to a later estimate of $43m, and in recent years to $68m. lt has now been proved that for the same cost the bigger, more efficient and more effective dam at Dartmouth can be built and will be built. In support of the building of the Dartmouth Dam I point out that South Australiaw will receive 250,000 acre feet more than it would have received if only the Chowilla Dam had been built. It will receive certainly more than it has ever been able to get previously. South Australia's allocation under the River Murray Waters Agreement has not been altered since 1915. The building of the 
Dartmouth Dam provides the first opportunity since that time for an increase of South Australia's allocation. 
One of the problems that has been exercising the minds of members of the River Murray Commission is that of salinity. Studies that have been undertaken since the Chowilla Dam was first mooted have shown that salinity is not the problem that it was first expected to be. It has been shown that if the Chowilla Dam were built some of the peaks of salinity would be ironed out. lt has also been shown that the building of the Dartmouth Dam will not increase salinity further down the river. One thing that must always be remembered is that there must be a flow of water through South Australia via the River Murray so that the salt content can be kept down. This is sometimes forgotten by people who point out that a great deal of water comes down the river and flows to the sea. We should keep in mind that there must always be a certain amount of water in the river for flushing purposes. Certainly with more water available in the Dartmouth Dam there will be more available for all States for development, and it is important to remember that although it is sometimes said that if South Australia had the Chowilla Dam within its own borders it would be able to get its entitlement out of the dam in time of shortage, and so not be reliant on the other States, this is, to my mind, a very short-sighted view. If we were to ignore the other States in a year of shortage, then certainly in other years those States would not allow the required amount of water to come down the river into the Chowilla Dam. The water would be used further upstream. This is something we must always remember. South Australia is one of the 4 parties making up the River Murray Commission, and we must abide by any decision that that Commission makes. 
With the building of the Dartmouth Dam there will be 4 main benefits to South Australia. I have mentioned the increase of 250,000 acre feet in the amount of water available each year for South Australia. There is also the fact that the Commonwealth has agreed to give further financial assistance to the States for the building of this dam. The third benefit is in the fact that whereas previously South Australia was allowed to take water from the Menindee Lakes as a temporary measure only, until the Chowilla Dam was built, now that the agreement has been made for the building of Dartmouth New South Wales has agreed to the proposition that the water in the Menindee Lakes should be a permanent supply for South Australia. This would be of enormous advantage to that State. The fourth advantage to our State will become apparent in years of drought. Severe curtailment of deliveries to the two upstream States can be expected in the event of a recurrence of some of the earlier severe droughts, and therefore it is important that we have the most possible water available in order to offset the effects of 'these severe drought periods. lt has been said, too, and sometimes in South Australia, that it is not practicable to build a dam within a dam. It is contended that the Dartmouth Dam on ihe Mitta Mitta River would be within the boundaries of the Hume Dam. However, in 18 of the last 20 years since the Hume Dam rilled that dam has overflowed. This shows that we could store more water further upstream and still not interfere with the overflowing of the Hume Dam. It is from the Hume, of course, that water is released in the time of restriction. Yet another advantage from the construction of the Dartmouth Dam is the power generation facilities which will be operated and paid for by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria, lt is important to realise that the Snowy Mountains Authority will be retained as consultant for this dam. . The Authority has already undertaken many of the studies to show that the Dartmouth Dam is the best proposition for the next dam on the river. I say that advisedly because there are some people in South Australia who think 2 dams should be built at once, Dartmouth and Chowilla. To my mind this is not practicable. This is proved by the fact that the River Murray Commission has not seen fit to recommend construction of both. I hope that some time in the very near future the River Murray Commission will agree that Chowilla should be built. We must accept the propositions put forward by the experts in i ncsc fields, whether they be the Snowy Mountains Authority engineers or other engineers, that we must conserve water right down the river wherever it is most practicable, and at the lowest cost. There has sometimes been some doubt as to whether it is possible to supply 1 million acre feet more water to the whole river system. We need to remember that the annual discharge at the dam site is 700,000 acre feet and water is released from the Hume only when there is insufficient water downstream to meet requirements. The 3 million acre feet storage in the Dartmouth will be available for release in periods in which shortages would otherwise have occurred. The net result is that water inflow to the system, including the inflow from tributaries below the Hume, can be used more efficiently. I am pleased to note, too, that studies have been made which will result in more efficient use of Lake Victoria. This will assist South Australia. Lake Victoria is just beyond the border of South Australia, but certainly the storage in that lake helps control salinity in South Australia. Water can be released very quickly when needed in that State. A further advantage to South Australia is that the inlets and outlets to an from Lake Victoria will be enlarged. 
I do not want to go any further into this discussion because I think it has all been said. I am disappointed that  Mr Dunstan  has refused the challenge of the Premier of South Australia to debate with him on television the importance of Dartmouth dam to South Australia.  Mr Dunstan  seems to me to have realised that he lost a similar debate once before on television and he is not prepared to repeat the performance. The Premier of South Australia has shown his willingness to debate the question at any time, and if only  Mr Dunstan- 
If he had shown that he would meet the Premier- 
He is not willing to debate on television the issue of Dartmouth versus Chowilla which, to me, shows the weakness of his argument in saying that Chowilla is a better dam for South Australia. If he were to enter into a debate I think we all would have more confidence in believing that  Mr Dunstan  is sincere in the arguments he is putting up. I am unable to support the amendments which have been proposed by the Opposition. The first seeks to delay ratification of this Bill so that there can be a computer evaluation of the storages. As I have said, this has been done already and it is quite clear from the computer evaluations that Dartmouth will give all the States concerned with the River Murray waters a better deal. The second amendment which I am unable to support seeks the establishment of a national water conservation and construction authority embracing the Snowy Mountains Authority. That too has been done in effect. The Snowy Mountains Authority has been called in and has given its opinion. It would bc drastic if the eastern States, including South Australia, had to wait for the establishment of a conservation authority to conduct further research and examination, lt has all been done and it has been proved that the Dartmouth Dam is a good dam for us all. Therefore I support- the ratification of the agreement. 
 I have been stimulated into saying a few words - and they will be few - because I have listened to honourable senators splitting hairs. It seems to me that, if the amendment were carried and if the construction of the Dartmouth dam were delayed for more computer studies to be carried out, all that would happen would be that South Australia would be inconvenienced and would have to wait longer for water. The possibility would be that we might, not get any dam. If the proposal to construct a dam at Dartmouth is defeated, we have been told that the Commonwealth and the other States concerned, New South 
Wales and Victoria, will not pay for the construction of Chowilla, lt would be useless for us to delay the construction of Dartmouth in order to prove that Chowilla ought to be built now. It is quite obvious that if we carry on like this we will be told that we can build Chowilla at our own expense. South Australia simply could not afford to undertake the construction of Chowilla on its own. We have to get on with the construction of Dartmouth. We need water. The sooner we get on with it, the better. This splitting of hairs seems to me to be getting us nowhere, lt is confusing the public. The public now is convinced by the experts' more recent studies. After all, that is the point. 

 Senator Toohey said that we undermined the credibility of  Sir Thomas  Playford by challenging whether Chowilla is the most feasible dam that could be constructed. That is nonsense. More studies have been done since the time when  Sir Thomas  Playford advocated the construction of Chowilla. Computer studies have been carried out. In answer to  Senator Toohey,  I refer to what the Minister said in his second reading speech. Reference was made to the studies that have been carried out. Although some of the results have not been published, they have been gathered together in the second reading speech to make it clear that the studies have been done and that all the experts are convinced that Dartmouth should be constructed. 
Not all the results have been made public yet. The second reading speech referred to the results. I am sure that, if the honourable senator asked to see them, he would be able to see them. There has not been time to tabulate the results. The studies have been completed only recently. I am quite sure that the results would be available to the honourable senator. I certainly do not support the amendment which would mean a further delay in the construction of Dartmouth. We should proceed with the construction of Dartmouth. As  Senator Young  said, when Dartmouth is constructed there is the possibility that Chowilla will be constructed. We hope it will be the next dam constructed. We must take the advice of experts as to how we can best conserve water from the River Murray for the benefit  of  all the users. We should not oppose the measure and insist on the construction  of  Chowilla, whether it is the best dam for the rest of the States or not. Therefore, I oppose the amendment. 

 Senator RIDLEY (South Australia) L5.3] - 1 have only a few brief words to say in answer  to  Senator Buttfield.  Last night, when speaking  to  the amendments, she said: 
The  first  seeks lo  delay ratification  of this Bill so thai there can be a  computer evaluation  of  the storages.  As I have said, this has been done  already . . . 
How can an amendment which asks that a certain thing be carried out cause a delay when the honourable senator has said that what the amendment asks has been done already? She said that we could obtain the results  of  the studies. There has been sufficient time since the launching  of  this debate in another place and since the presentation of the Bill in this chamber for the results to be presented. No computer studies have been done as to the benefits accruing to South Australia from the construction of both Dartmouth and Chowilla dams. That was intended by the first agreement which related to Chowilla. 
Is the Minister for Housing aware of the fact that for several years the home building industry in South Australia has been in a state of recession and near depression, causing a massive movement of building tradesmen to other more prosperous States? Is she also aware that only in recent months has an upward trend in this industry in South Australia become apparent, but that the industry there can by no means be said to be bouyant as yet? Is it a fact that the building industry in South Australia has lagged far behind that in other States where boom conditions have existed for several years? If this is so, will the Minister- 
It started long before the Hall Government came to office. It started when the Dunstan Government started mucking around with the economy. If these are facts, will the Minister take up with the Treasurer the possibility of giving some relief from the present high interest rates relating to loans to South Australian home builders in order to provide some relief from a possible return to depression conditions in this very hard hit industry which is primarily responsible for South Australian economic stability? 
The honourable senator asks about the present state of building activity. I inform her that in the March quarter this year the number of private houses and flats commenced in South Australia was 2,285, which represents the largest number of dwellings commenced in that State since the March quarter of 1965. In the March quarter this year approvals were 8% above the number in the December quarter 1969. Home building activity would appear to be rising. If the overall monetary situation should bring about some casing in home building activity in South Australia I believe it should be of relatively short duration as the long term trend in dwelling construction in that State must definitely be up.  Senator Buttfield  spoke about the present high interest rate. The monetary restraint which is operating to curb a tendency for spending to run to excess applies to all forms of spending and investing in the community and is not being directed mainly to home building. But because this is a big industry - expenditure on home construction accounts for about 5% of total Australian expenditure - it cannot escape the effects of the overall monetary restraint. With  Senator Buttfield  I hope, most sincerely, that the upward trend in dwelling construction continues in South Australia. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science indicate the approximate amount which the Australian taxpayer is called upon to contribute, by way of direct grants or scholarships, to universities through the Commonwealth Government? As 30 academic personnel from at least one South Australian University and no doubt similar numbers from other universities throughout Australia, towards the salaries of whom Australian taxpayers contribute, have refused, while the Vietnam Moratorium is in progress, to carry out their academic duties, can the Minister indicate whether these academics will be paid their salaries while on strike? If so, is there any way in which the Government can protect the interests of taxpayers by seeing that the universities deprive these academics of their pay and, if necessary, suspend them from their positions at those universities? 
I rise to support the Bill and to oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Poke  on behalf of the Opposition. I oppose the amendment because it is my belief that if it were passed there would be still further delay in providing the undoubted benefits that are contained in this Bill. In answer to  Senator Poke's  accusation that the Government has delayed the passage of this Bill, I suggest that it is rather obvious that the tactics of the Opposition in the other House were the delaying factor. It seems to me that members of the' Opposition have been playing merry hell' there for a long time and that it was high time this Bill came before this chamber. I 'am glad that its passage is being expedited here. 
The Bill was ready to bc presented very early in the piece. I commend the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  on the fact that it was ready for presentation so soon after the Governor-General's Speech in which it was mooted. 
In the few moments remaining to me this evening I wish to say something about the credit unions, particularly in regard to some of the remarks made by  Senator Poke.  He said that he thought the credit unions lent at a lower rate than the lending societies. I think that was the term he used. I think he probably meant the finance companies because obviously they lend at a higher rate. They are hire purchase companies and their rate of interest is exorbitant. The Government, by its many efforts over the last few years, has endeavoured to eliminate the need for home buyers to go to finance companies for money. I am quite sure that I am right in saying that the credit unions lend at a higher rate of interest than do the building societies. 
But the building societies do not lend on a flat rate. They lend mostly at rates in a vicinity of 61% to 7i% - not a flat rate but on a reducing rate. It is the finance companies that lend on a flat rate. The credit unions do not lend at rates as favourable as those of the building societies. 
Debate interrupted. 
Would the Minister for Civil Aviation agree that a vigorous migration policy is urgently needed for the development of South Australia? If he does, will he give urgent consideration to the building of an international standard airport in Adelaide, with the immediate purpose of flying direct to South Australia the thousands of migrants planning to come to that State but who might, by landing in Sydney or Melbourne, as at present, be diverted from their original intention? 
My question is directed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. As the tourist industry is now widely recognised as one of the major overseas income earners for Australia, would the Minister give consideration to approaching the Government with a view to making long term, low interest rate loans for the development of tourist facilities such as motels or hotels, particularly in remote areas which, being unique, could attract international tourists if such facilities were available? 
I rise to support this Bill and to say how pleased I am that the step is being taken to assist the film and television industry. Over the years prior to the publication of the Vincent report I was one who said that I believed that Australia at that time was not quite ready for an assisted film industry. 1 considered that we were suffering, if that is the right word, from the fact that we are an English speaking country and that both the United Kingdom and the United States of America have nourishing film industries in the English language and that, therefore, a country with u population the size of ours and with the need to develop in so many directions could not possibly afford to develop this industry in competition with either the United Kingdom or the United States of America. However at that time I did say too that I thought that with the introduction and spread of television the Australian film industry had an opportunity to develop within the framework of the television industry. 
The television industry . has taken the opportunity afforded by that less expensive medium to engage in-, film production, lt has done remarkably well. Australia has won awards in many countries in international competitions. That indicates that the quality of production of Australian television films, at any rate, is second to none. Only very recently an Australian television commercial won awards in a worldwide competition. It is a great credit to the industry that in the face of competition from more powerful and more wealthy nations it has been able to come to the fore so gratifyingly. I do not agree with  Senator McClelland  that our writers, actors, technicians and so on were made to go abroad in the sense that he implied because they could not do here what they wanted to do. I believe that they gain by going overseas. That is why I think this is the right time to start assisting the industry. Many of our competent artists, writers and so on who have gone overseas and have gained valuable experience now are anxious and willing to come back and play their part in the industry as it develops in Australia. 
I do not know whether we will ever be able to compete in the big feature film field. There has been a complete revolution in what is called the feature film. Extremely expensive films are being produced by America and England, and I do not think that Australia could possibly afford to produce such expensive films. Some of them cost many millions of dollars. The proposed Corporation with its allocation of Sim is not set up to enter into that part of the industry. However we have shown in Australia that we can produce good feature films of a lesser quality on a less grandiose scale. Great artistry has been developed because people have had to do things on the smell of an oil rag. We have seen many 
Artists  in many fields of artistry develop getter because they have had to struggle to develop. That is the stage at which I think Australia is at present. There is great initiative and creativeness in Australians. We have seen that in many directions and now we wait with great interest to see Australian films, maybe produced in conjunction with some overseas companies but nevertheless assisted and produced in Australia. 
It is very interesting to note that the Government is considering starting a television training school. I do not think that the film industry can progress without a training school. Therefore I hope that the training school will be a complementary side to the Corporation. I hope that the proposed film and television training school will be set up in Adelaide because 1 can think of no better part of Australia for such a school. The climate is ideal. After all, such schools exist in such places as Spain where the climate is similar to that in Adelaide. It is an ideal part of Australia in which to set up the training school. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Genera! Business Taking Precedence of Government Business 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation aware of the grave danger to public health existing in the aircraft of both of the major domestic airlines where the floors of the entrance foyers  are lined with either linoleum or vinyl? Is he also aware that on wet days this becomes particularly slippery and that for many years many people have been falling and hurting themselves badly? In order to save the taxpayers, through the Department of Social Services, paying people who are out of work through the injuries they sustain, will the Minister insist that the airlines put some matting on these floors? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  I regret that the Prime Minister of Canada has left the chamber before I was able to catch your eye in order to have you give me the call. I ask you,  Mr President,  whether you are aware of the fact that in the United States of America when a visiting parliamentarian is invited on to the floor of the American Senate individual senators are then invited to express their feelings of welcome and congratulations to the visitor. 1 ask you whether the Standing Orders of the Australian Senate would allow this procedure? If not, would it be possible to make arrangements for individual senators to extend such courtesies? 
Hie  PRESIDENT  - I have been on the floor of the American Senate on 3 occasions, and the Senate has suspended proceedings in order to give senators an opportunity to come along and speak to me. I do not know that that is an improvement on our own system. I much prefer the way in which we do it here. We pay as great a tribute as we possibly can by asking the visitor to sit in the Senate. V/e cannot do any more than that. We pay our respect In that way. I do not think that the way the Americans do it means very much more. 
I would not support the amendment at this time because I have taken this matter up with the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes).  He has told me that he has a committee examining anomalies. He will examine these anomalies. This one is included. It is likely that this matter will be corrected probably within the course of this year. 
If the honourable senator will give me time I will explain why I am prepared to wait. The ophthalmologists have said that they are prepared to wait. They know that they put their request for this alteration rather late. 
I do not see any reason why the Bill should be delayed any longer. I think it is important that the people of Australia should get the benefits to be derived from this Bill. For this reason I am prepared to support the Bill as it is, without amendment. But I will certainly watch what happens. I will watch on behalf of optometrists and on behalf of patients who receive spectacles as a result of visiting an ophthalmologist. I think it is very clear that the ophthalmologists are agreeable to wait until the anomaly is examined. They admit that they have come into the picture late; they did not put their case early enough for it to be considered along with the other clauses of the Bill. The ophthalmologists told me that they would not object to the Bill going through at this stage so that the people would not be deprived of the benefits of it. They are prepared to wait until the committee examining the anomalies has looked at this matter.I am quite sure it will be altered before the end of the year. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it a fact that the economy of South Australia is dependent mainly on the motor car industry and the household consumer goods industry which includes washing machines, sewing machines, refrigerators and so on? 
If the Minister agrees with that proposition, does he then agree that if the home building industry is depressed the household consumer goods industries are as a result disadvantaged? If so. will the Minister take up with the Government the possibility of relieving the present situation of the home building industry in order to relieve the whole economic situation in South Australia? 
In directing my question to the Minister for Housing I refer to her answer to the question asked by  Senator Prowse.  The Minister said that the present economic restrictions imposed by the Government have been placed generally on all industries. Will she agree that they have hit first at the home building industry? Although  she has stated that the figures relating to the home building industry are all time record will she admit that the industry in South Australia has been in a depressed state since about 1964? Will she agree that it is misleading to look at figures which indicate that Western Australia and New South Wales, in particular, have had a boom in the home building industry whereas other States have not been in that condition? Will the Government take particular notice of the fact that some States are suffering undue pressure as a result of these restrictions which are hitting the whole economy, particularly in South Australia? I ask that some consideration be directed towards alleviating the situation. 
Ooh! 
Opposition senators - Oh! 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! Honourable senators must cease interjecting when the Minister is answering. If they do not, neither Hansard nor anyone else will be able to hear. 
I would like to point out that whilst 1 agree with the figures given by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  for December and March in both 1969 and 1970, these figures are not a true representation of the state of the housing industry in South Australia. The housing industry in South Australia reached its peak in 1963 and then took a very steep tumble. Whilst other States in the last 2 or 3 years have been enjoying a boom South Australia has been at the bottom of the barrel, as illustrated by the relative figures. The Minister cited figures for 1969 and 1970. I repeat what I implied at question time, that the building industry in South Australia has been in a depressed state for some years. The figures presented by the Minister do not give an accurate picture of the situation in South Australia as compared with the States which have had a building boom in the last 2 or 3 years. I think it should be made very clear that whilst we are sympathetic with the need for the Government to curb the building industry, restrictions should not be applied in blanket fashion in all States, particularly when the industry in one State has been in a depressed condition for some years. 
My question is addressed to the Minister Cor Works. In view of the recently published booklet for a uniform code of standards throughout Australia for the home building industry, for which I congratulate the Minister and the Department of Housing, when can we expect for the entire construction industry the complementary uniform code of standards which 1 understand his Department has been preparing for some time? 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General aware of the excessively and unreliably slow rate of delivery by the Postmaster-General's Department of letters and packages - sometimes taking up to 1 week for interstate mail? By way of an example, I ask the Minister whether she knows that in order to ensure that a letter posted at the Canberra Post Office before 9.30 a.m. will be delivered to a Sydney city address by the next day, an excess rate, in addition to the normal Se airmail postage rate, of 20c is required? As, in this example, the hopeful recipient of such a letter is only ) to 1 hour's flying time away from Canberra, will the Minister take up with the PostmasterGeneral the possibility and urgency of eliminating such an iniquitous obligation on the taxpayer to pay a 25c postage rate before being guaranteed a 24-hour  delivery  service? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Yesterday I asked the Minister to take up with the PostmasterGeneral the need to pay 25c in order to have a guarantee of delivery in Sydney within 24 hours of a letter posted in Canberra before 9.30 a.m. I point out that Sydney is only an hour's travelling time from Canberra by air. Has the Minister seen an article in today's New South Wales morning Press stating that a priority mail service costing 10c per letter was introduced on 10 July and already 10,000 articles a week are being handled successfully under this scheme? Anticipating that the PostmasterGeneral will tell the Senate of this scheme in answer to the question I asked yesterday concerning the 25c requirement, I ask: Will the Minister ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he will ensure that members of the Post Office staff are fully informed of the various costs of the differing services available so that people will not be asked to pay 25c for a service that can be obtained for 10c and the staff will be able to explain that the 25c charge is for a personal messenger delivery at the city of destination? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. By way of explanation I would like to say that this week a blind man was conducted round Parliament House while explanations and descriptions given to him were recorded on a tape recorder for later study and reflection. This tour of Canberra was the last leg of a long journey around Australia undertaken by this courageous blind man. He was alone because airline officers were not able to guarantee him that his guide dog could accompany him throughout the long journey. I ask: Is it a fact that Ansett Airlines of Australia certainly, and possibly Trans-Australia Airlines, provide a free passage to a guide dog accompanying its blind master if he is travelling first class, with certain requirements for safety, convenience and hygiene in respect of other passengers? As many courageous blind people desirous of such a service could not afford a first class fare, will the Minister take up with the internal airlines the possibility of extending this generous service to a blind person travelling tourist class? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. In view of the petition received by this Senate today requesting the pension to be readjusted to equal 30 per cent of the base wage rate, while pensioners retain the extra benefits now available to them, such as free medical service, free transport and other concessions for radio and television licences, telephone and so on, will the Minister obtain for the Senate an estimate of the value of these extra benefits so that a more realistic assessment of the actual value of the pension may be arrived at? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I ask: In view of the rash of hijackings of international aircraft, is it likely that the insurance rates of such aircraft will increase, as a consequence of which the fares will increase? If this is likely, is there any way in which the Government could prevent this happening to Australia's international line? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation and is complementary to others asked on the subject of hijacking. Have the international air authorities made any investigation whether the death penalty could be imposed on people convicted for attempted hijacking? If not. will the Minister raise the matter with the Australian Government to see whether such a penalty could be imposed on a person convicted of such an offence in Australia? 
I rise with some trepidation to enter this debate because in the past day or two I have heard some honourable senators say that they thought this debate was dead. Maybe one of the penalties of coming late into a debate is that you are talking to a dead debate. When honourable senators have referred to the debate as being dead, I hope that they have meant that the amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  no longer holds any interest. I say that because on many occasions in the past day or two I have seen very few honourable senators on the Opposition side even taking an interest in the amendment which was proposed by their leader. 
Although I may be repeating what has been said before I should tike to deal with the purposes of budgeting. From listening to some honourable senators opposite it seems to me that they have a very hazy idea of what budgeting means. Perhaps we need to look at the origin of the word budget'. It comes from the French word budget' which means a little bag. It is of no use thinking that you can put your hand into the little bag and pull out all sorts of goodies unless you remember that you first must put something into the bag. Budget time in the national context is not a time when you simply hand out goodies to everyone. You first must put something into the little bag. I have heard it said that the Budget is the instrument by which the country's economic situation is controlled or regulated after an annual survey. I am firmly in agreement with that. We must look at the national situation and decide whether we can give out more or whether we have to control certain economic trends which are appearing. We accept that there are inflationary trends in Australia, and in this Budget the Government rightly has endeavoured to do its best for as many people as possible while controlling those inflationary trends. 
I regret that the Budget is produced on an annual basis because that tends towards short sighted planning. We tend to disregard the longer term look at the nation's development and stability. I should like to see a plan adopted for a longer period and then merely adjust it from year to year at Budget time if inflationary trends are increasing or diminishing. I believe that the individual needs some guidelines as he looks to the Government's survey at Budget time and decides how he should plan his own spending. Sometimes action by the Government comes a little late because it has to wait until Budget time. I believe that action relating to the motor car industry - I am referring here to the increase in sales tax - was a little late.  1  know that in my own State of South Australia the motor car industry was a little on the downturn before the Budget was presented. Therefore we may find that the increase in sales tax will have a very adverse effect on that industry which may have to go through a very difficult period because the Government has forced this impost upon it. I am watching very closely what is happening in this regard. At this stage I am not prepared to criticise the Government's policy and say that it is wrong. I merely say that its action may have been a little late. 
I am also rather sceptical on occasions at Budget time about our federal system because I believe it to be inherently wasteful. It tends to enforce unplanned growth because State governments have a responsibility only to spend. They do not have a responsibility to collect taxes. I should like to see an extension of the Premiers Conference and the Australian Loan Council meeting which are held well after the Budget period. I should tike the State governments to meet with the Treasurer during the weeks when the Budget is being prepared so that they not only join in the cutting of the cake but also play their part in the measuring of the ingredients and the mixing and baking of the cake. I. think that would stop the football game that goes on continually between the Commonwealth and the States in which the ball is kicked backwards and forwards. If the State governments could be incorporated into, say, a council to help plan the next Budget I think the whole thing would be on a better basis and the State governments would have a more responsible attitude and have longer term planning in their minds. 
Sometimes  1  wonder whether, when Budgets are being planned in either the State sphere or the Federal sphere, people consider those who deserve attention most. Maybe we will all have different opinions as to those who should be given the best cut of the cake. Quite frankly, I believe that the doctors and nurses should probably come among the first. I would also like to see the agricultural workers, the teachers and certainly the pensioners come very high up in the list. But I know very well who, in the opinion of the public, would be the last to be considered. They would be the members of parliament. In company with them would be those on high incomes. 
T have heard from the Opposition remarks to the effect that those who need relief most are receiving the lowest cut of the taxation relief that is being granted. In my view, such remarks are quite unrealistic. If somebody is paying more into the tax pool, obviously he is the one who will receive the biggest amount of money in the form of relief. We have to be realistic. People will receive relief in proportion to what they put into the tax pool. I certainly will not be supporting, as  Senator Gair  said, the pious resolution represented in the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. It seems to me that  Senator Murphy  is looking negatively at the Budget; whereas I believe that it is a positive and responsible Budget. I do not think I need to waste many words on his amendment because it is quite unrealistic. 
I am more interested in the projected amendment to be moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I would be inclined to support some of the 9 clauses of that amendment. Although I may not be in accord with my Party, I would like to see pensions considered outside of politics - that is one of the 9 clauses - because of this everlasting auction room approach, as  Senator Gair  described it. This is dreadful for the people who are on pensions. Pensions should be considered in a completely non-political atmosphere. I would support any move to make increases in pensions less objectionable for those who are on them. 
In looking at the Budget, I certainly agree that we must hold the inflationary trend. Many groups of people have been considered in framing this Budget. I am very pleased that those people have received the consideration of the Government. I commend the Government for that. I have said that the Budget is a responsible one. It aims to benefit everyone. I have not yet heard anyone on the Opposition side try to produce some ideas that would benefit all sections of the community. Members of the Opposition harp mostly on one or two sections. 
Yes, I was. I have not heard any suggestion that benefits everyone. There is always a sectional basis for any suggestion. There will always be some who contribute more to the national coffers than do others. Members of the Opposition always want it to be the other fellow, never themselves. They are not prepared to contribute a little more in order to have more distributed. Their attitude is: Let the other fellow pay, not me'. 
We must always watch what can be put into the national coffers, but we must leave room for the encouragement of initiative, enterprise and responsibility. We all know that in Australia it is very difficult to find enough people to shoulder responsibility and to take on the arduous job of leading enterprises so that they, in their turn, can support the Government's policy of full employment. I believe that if we find more and more leaders they must be allowed to retain as large a portion of the fruits of their labours as is possible, commensurate with the need to share their earnings with the less fortunate people in the community. It is no good biting the hand that feeds you. If people are less fortunate than others, they need to respect those who are taking the responsibility and to be thankful that somebody is willing to take it. 
Yes, indeed. Would the honourable senator be willing to take all the responsibility that some of the people on higher incomes take? 
Of course you would not. That is the point. We need more of these people. We are trying to obtain them through immigration because not enough Australians are willing to shoulder responsibility. We have to respect just what the sleepless nights and ulcers of people who are taking responsibility mean. Very little thought is given to just what a person with responsibility suffers. He gives his brains and his brawn in dreaming up new ideas and ways and means of maintaining the economic status and success of the various businesses in which he is involved. 
He may. J am glad to hear somebody from the Opposition recognising the difficulties of the man who takes responsibility. It is extraordinary that in the United States people are delighted to work for somebody who takes responsibility and whose business is prosperous and paying big dividends. The worker is glad to be employed in such an industry because he knows that his job is secure. But unfortunately in Australia, more often than not, the worker is jealous of the profits that the business in which he works is making. I do not say that he thinks of this himself. He is stirred up to this by his trade union. He is made to think that he is being exploited because the business is showing a profit. Surely, if the business is showing a profit it indicates good management, security and continuing stability for this country. 
In my opinion it is a great pity that some unions - T am not saying that all of them do thU - discourage this sort of prosperity in Australia. When I refer to the unions I mean the people who make them tick because, as far as I can see, all they can understand is that if they stir up strife they will hold their own jobs in the unions, regardless of the prosperity of the country. We only have to look at the newspapers and see what is happening in regard to strikes to understand that. 
Yes, 1 am. 1 applaud the Government for its efforts in giving consideration to every section of the community. 
1 will. We have to understand that one of the first groups of people who have been considered by this Government are the taxpayers. As inflation has increased, they have paid more and more into the national coffers. They have borne their responsibility quietly and without making a fuss. But they are the ones who are providing the resources in the little budget of which I spoke earlier, for distribution throughout the community in the form of economic and social wellbeing. 
Let us look at another of the benefiting groups. I refer to the States. Nobody is more pleased than I am that they have received a very substantial increase in the grants made to them from the national coffers. An increase of $29 lm has been made in the amount to be granted to the States, bringing the total of $2,708m. An enormous proportion of the national resources is being paid back to the States. This is very good. The State governments are the ones who are close to the people in their respective States. They are the ones who should be handling these payments. 
If I may be parochial for a moment, let me say that I am very distressed to find the Premier of South Australia saying through the mass media that our State received a lousy deal from the Commonwealth, it did not receive a lousy deal. 
It is very easy to convince people that they received a lousy deal. One only has to tell them that they have, and they will believe it. But you have to give them a few more facts than that. We should not forget that under the arrangement now in operation South Australia receives a 12.9 per cent increase over last year while Western Australia has an increase of 15 per cent. This sounds very unfair if the figures are not analysed. 
We will not go into that one now. The one the Premier of South Australia made a fuss about was the allocation to Western Australia in comparison to South Australia, but what has been ignored is the fact that the formula on which the State allocation is made is based on population increase. During last year the population increase in South Australia was down to 1.7 per cent, mainly due to recessions that State has been suffering from over the last 2 or 3 years due to the Labor Government's bad management. Pockets, are empty and it is taking a long time to pick up from the recessions which South Australia has endured. During the same period Western Australia has had an increase in population of 3.9 per cent, compared with 1.7 per cent in South Australia. Therefore the financial distribution is not a lousy deal. If one is going to say that the Commonwealth has given a State a lousy deal one must produce some supporting argument to back up the assertion. So far I have seen no such argument from the Premier of South Australia. 
1 am glad the honourable senator has reminded me of this, ls not this an indication of the wisdom of the present Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  in saying to the Premier of South Australia: 'If you want more, apply to the Grants Commission and see what you can get.' This is exactly what has happened. Whereas the State  of.  South Australia asked through its Premier for a $3m increase, the Grants Commission has now given it S5m. I think that this is a perfect indication that the Prime Minister of Australia knew better than the Premier of South Australia what was a just amount to give to that State, not under the allocation from direct tax reimbursement but under a different allocation. 
I will pass very quickly through the defence allocation of Si, 137m. Although J am pleased with this allocation I do hope that in the very near future more young people will be brought into the present national service scheme. In fact, I would like to see compulsory national service for 2 years for all young people. If all young people had 2 years of Service discipline the unpleasant situation which is developing with regard to the abuse of drugs might be avoided. To my mind it is the lack of discipline among the young people which causes them to engage upon this extraordinary pursuit. I do feel that compulsory national service would be a solution to this problem and I hope that at some stage all young people will do national service. 
I want to say a few words about the assistance granted to sheltered workshops for the physically and mentally handicapped. 1 am delighted that this section of the community has been considered by the Government in this Budget. Obviously the people in sheltered workshops need more facilities for supervision and training by people such as doctors, social workers, counsellors and others. It is very pleasing to note that the Government has made some provision for a $1 for Si grant towards salaries paid to these people. I can foresee some difficulties because I do not know how the Department of Social Services will be able to determine what is required over the normal requirements of industry. I hope that the Government will be able to say: 'We accept the requirements of an approved sheltered workshop', and so allow these organisations to go ahead and engage staff. Until this happens these workshops will be in a difficult position because they have not the resources to engage the staff that they need. The productivity of the people in sheltered workshops is very low. The workshops do not have the resources and they will need to know that they will be able to claim the $1 for $1 grant to engage the staff they need. It is also very pleasing that sheltered workshops are being encouraged to enable handicapped people to return to industry. This encouragement is given by a $500 grant to be made for every person returned to industry. 
The provisions in this Budget will help the workshops towards improved standards. It is only in the last 2 or 3 years that there has been any sort of grant for hostels associated with sheltered workshops. We should not forget that there are only 50 approved sheltered workshops in the whole of Australia to cater for some 5.000 people. There are about 100 workshops which are not approved. For these workshops to be approved at least 51 per cent of the people employed therein must be earning more than $4 a week. When one realises the degree of the incapacity of these people one understands that it is not easy to find a workshop in which 51 per cent of its people can earn over $4 a week. I hope that this section of the community will be considered more and more and that the $2 for $1 granted for hostel equipment will be extended to cover recreational facilities for people not only in the hostels but also in the sheltered workshops, if these people are to be returned to industry - and this is what we certainly hope for, for more reasons than one - they must be built up as a whole person. At present the Government allows for a hostel 1 acre of land for every 12 people, so that a hostel with 40 people would cover about 3+ acres. Recreational facilities are as essential for those in a workshop as for those in a hostel. For those reasons  I.  would like to see this grant extended to cover recreational facilities for hostels and workshops. 1 have listened to many honourable senators opposite saying that the family man has not had a fair deal from this Budget. To me this statement is extraordinary because in the first place the family man is surely the man who will benefit from the taxation relief. He is the man in the lower or middle income group. This is a direct benefit to the family man. Earlier this evening  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson announced in some detail the increased benefits in education through (he additional amounts being granted to the States. This will be direct expenditure on schools and teacher training facilities. But there is also direct Commonwealth expenditure which exceeds $3l2m this year over and above what is being granted to the States. The specific payments to the States show an increase of $42m. But in Commonwealth benefits the universities will gain by $78m, the colleges of advanced education by S35m, the unmatched grants to the States by $48m and the per capita grants for independent schools by $24m. These are all benefits to the family man. I do not think I need repeat the benefits under the scholarship scheme. There are 61,000 students in tertiary, technical and secondary schools already benefiting by scholarships and there is a list of new scholarships to be granted by the Commonwealth. Again these are benefits to the family man. 
The family man will also benefit by the assistance being given to primary and secondary industries. Our primary industry needs special attention at the present time and I am glad that the Government has given it the special attention that it has. I deplore the attitude which is growing up particularly amongst a lot of people living in the cities who say: 'Why should primary industry get all this? Primary industry is always getting something. Why do not we get something?' Too few people think of the difficulties faced by the man on the land. He is affected by fire, drought, flood and the exigencies of the weather. He suffers in his everyday life from heat and cold and too much water. People tend to forget that the position of the man on the land is greatly influenced by a fall in overseas prices over which he has no control. He is affected by tariff protection for secondary industries, which benefits people in the cities but means that the man on the land pays more for his purchases. Disadvantages for the man on the land include fewer job opportunities when he is forced to take a job outside his farm, as most must do nowadays. They are forced to take other employment in order to keep their farms going. Let us hope that they can keep their farms going. 

 Senator Bull reminded us that at least 50 per cent of our export income is earned by our primary products so obviously we need to keep our primary producers going. The man on the land has Fewer social and recreational opportunities and a lack of access to tertiary education for his children. They are only 3 areas in which the man on the land fares worse than a city dweller. I hope to goodness that shortly the man in the city will have more sympathy for the man on the land and will support the Government in its efforts to help primary industrialists back on to their feet. They arc in need of assistance. [ want to say a few words about the wine industry. As some South Australian senators have said, we in South Australia are very disturbed that an impost has had to be placed on wine. The Premier of South Australia has jumped to the conclusion that the excise payable on wine will have adverse effects on employment and development in South Australia, but he did not put forward any reasons for that view. Over the last few years the demand for Australian wine has been increasing. As the demand has increased the sellers have increased their prices. That has not checked the demand. I do not believe that there will be any significant curtailment in the demand for Australian wine because of the imposition of excise. I shall be watching the position very closely. If it appears that the demand is reduced I will be the first to say that relief is needed for the wine industry, because it is a very significant part of the South Australian economy. 
It is suggested, but so far there has been no evidence of it. I repeat that increases in the price of wine in the last few years have not cut back the demand. 
This is another increase and I hope that it will not curtail the demand. I do not think it will. There has been no sign of a cutback as yet. I and other senators will be watching the position. I do not believe that the growers of wine grapes will be adversely affected. In the last few years there has been a big increase in the production of wine grapes in South Australia. From an average annual production of 156,000 tons in the period from 1955 to 1959, production increased to about 295,000 tons in 1965. Many new plantings have been made. I applaud this development because the wine industry can be built up. However, the industry must be watched very closely to see that increased plantings and production are not curtailed. I do not believe they will be, but I shall be watching the position very closely. 
I think the people of Waikerie will be perfectly happy so long as we watch results and see that there are no signs of a recession. I think they will agree that we are doing a reasonable job for our State. 
We have been watching for 10 years. I repeat that demand and production have increased. Prices of wine have been increased and there has been no check on the demand. I will not waste my time by answering the honourable senator again. I wish now to refer to pensions. I have heard a great deal from honourable senators opposite to the effect that the pensioners have not had a fair deal. Some of us in this chamber do not engage in politically biased and emotionally overloaded talk about the inadequacy of pensions. Because we do not, there tends to develop a belief that we are not in sympathy with the pensioners. I am very much in sympathy with pensioners and I will not engage in emotional talk which leads them to believe that they are getting an unfair deal. I do not think they are. 
Exactly. I think there are quite a few people who would like a lot more money but we have to provide logical reasons why it is not always wise to give it to them. I agree that some pensioners need assistance, but 1 do not believe that all pensioners do. I would like to see pensioners classified into groups. For example, in the invalid pensioner group, is it reasonable that a 16-year-old invalid pensioner would need the same pension as an invalid man with a family? This has to be considered. If pensioners could be classified into groups, the needs of each group could be examined separately on a more realistic basis. Some people need a greater pension, but not all pensioners need an increase. 
My time is up. I want very quickly to say that we need to remember that there are people who are providing for their old age. If a person is prepared to save and to invest so that he does not need a pension, on the basis of the present pension he would need to save $19,000 and invest it at  4i  per cent, or if he could find a safe investment at 8 per cent he would need to invest $10,000. He would receive no adjustments in his income as pensioners do and he would not be able to claim that he is being ill treated, but he is the one who is saving the national coffers. Tn providing for himself I think he is doing a good job. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Is there any truth in the stated finding by a River Murray orchardist that a seepage channel 10 feet wide and 6 feet deep was pouring approximately 3 million gallons of saline seepage an hour into the River Murray about 70 miles east of the South Australian border? If so, will the Minister indicate whether any action is being taken to stop this salty water flowing into the River Murray? 
1 do not relish the idea of participating in this debate, particularly in the atmosphere which has been created by  Senator Fitzgerald,  who has just resumed his scat. He created an atmosphere of dole fulness and sadness in a speech packed with ancient history, which 1 do not propose to repeat, although one or two of his historical facts may come into what I say. The thing which worries me in contributing to a social services debate is that if one puts practical and realistic facts to the Senate one tends to create the impression that one is not sympathetic towards the welfare of pensioners. I commence my remarks by saying that I am intensely sympathetic towards the welfare of pensioners, although I do receive a good deal of abuse in this regard. But I repeat that if one puts practical facts to the Senate this accusation tends to be made. 
That is quite true, but one does not get cash until one gets sympathy. Certainly this Government, as I believe all honourable senators in this chamber are doing, is extending sympathy and understanding to the pensioners. 1 realise that pensioners have contributed tremendously over the years to the prosperity of this country and are deserving of comfort in their old age. 
I am making my speech. I will tell the honourable senator exactly why I think the Government is giving them reasonable assistance, although it may not be giving them all that we would like to see given to them. The point is that everyone in this country would like the Government to dig deeper into its coffers and hand something back. I am sympathetic towards the pensioners. 1 can appreciate that they want more assistance. But 1 deplore the politically biased debates which go on in this chamber in which Opposition senators create the false impression of sympathy when very few of them bother to come into the chamber and listen to the debates. 
believe that the main thing the Government should do in providing for aged people is leave them with the incentive to do something which will help them to earn a little more to add to their pension. Nothing makes one feel worse in old age than to feel that one is useless and is being kept by government handouts and not con tributing anything to the community. There are a tremendous number of pensioners who do add to their pensions and I am very pleased that they can. However, there are also many pensioners who are not able to do so. I think we should devote our attention to these pensioners at this stage. I have said before in a Budget speech that 1 believe it would be far better if we could classify pensions in a clearer way so that those who are in greatest need receive attention first. As I have said, there are many people who do not require such assistance and they could be looked at in a separate way. 
I have heard senators on the Opposition side say that they would like individual pensioners to receive 30 per cent of the average weekly wage. I hope to prove in the course of my remarks that the individual is on the equivalent of 30 per cent of the average weekly wage. We need to realise that the amount of money paid out in the national welfare fund this year is $ 1,473m, which is an increase of $131m or nearly 10 per cent over last years figures. I heard  Senator Fitzgerald  say that the Budget for this year provided for expenditures of approximately $8,000m. This figure is nearly a  i  of the total Budget, which is not a bad figure in a country which has so much to do, enormous areas to develop, and not very many taxpayers. Certainly it is disappointing to pensioners to find that they do not receive as big an increase as they would like, and as they received last year. 
But we should have a look at what is the real value of the pension and whether this real value has been sustained. If we take the present pension of $15.50 a week as being the real value today in purchasing power and look back only until 1966 we see that in January 1966 the pension was $12, and that in terms of today's real purchasing power would equal $13.67, a good deal lower than the pensioner .has today. In October 1966 the pension was $13, and that represents $14.50 in terms of today's purchasing power. In January 1968 when the present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  came into office the pension was $13, and the purchasing power of that amount at that time was a little lower; it - was equivalent to $13.98 in terms of today's purchasing power. The pension went up in 
October to $14 or the equivalent of $14.73 in terms of today's rates. In October of last year- 
I will come to that in a moment. I want to finish the point I am making. In October 1969 the pension rose to $15, which is equivalent to a purchasing power of $15.34 today. Now the purchasing power has gone up to $15.50.  Senator Keeffe  asked me whether I could live on that amount. I have already said that the kindest thing one could do for a pensioner is to encourage him to augment the amount of his pension - in other words, not to expect him to live on it, but to be able to augment it and make it possible for him to live on his income by not decreasing the pension if he earns something extra. This is exactly what the pensioners cannot do. 
I have said that there are various categories amongst pensioners who receive no extra assistance, and I am coming to this. The ones who need special assistance are in one category. We are talking of a blanket cover, and that is where it is always so misleading in these debates that nobody says that all pensioners are in need. Some pensioners are in need, and these are the ones- 
No. All pensioners, I venture to say, are not in need. We should also have a look at other people in this community. Who has to pay for the increase in the pension if it is to be raised by the amount by which the Opposition says it should? We would all like it to be raised, but let us have a look at the young people. They are saving perhaps to buy a house, maybe to get married, maybe to raise a family and educate their children. They will have to pay for pensions for older people for something like 50 years, and they may or may not draw much from it at the end of their earning life. But we have to consider the young people and say: 'Give them a fair go. Let them save as much as they can and not deprive them of the incentive to work and work harder and increase productivity of the country by taking too much away from them by way of increased pension funds.' 
 They are paying in various ways. Sales taxes and indirect taxes have been increased. I do not think the solution is to say: 'Let the other fellow pay all the taxes to give to somebody else.' This argument always comes from the Opposition: 'Let the other fellow pay, not me.' I do not approve of that. I think we ought to share these taxes, and that is exactly what is happening. 
I have just proved that they are being looked after. We hope they will get more, but their purchasing power has been restored. What is forgotten is that over and above the $15.50 which the pensioner now gets are all the fringe benefits which have a very real value. The other day I asked a question of the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  who represents the Minister for Social Services in this House in order to ascertain whether the value per week of the fringe benefits could be estimated. An answer has been supplied to that question. I might mention some of these fringe benefits because they are forgotten when one. says that people are expected to live on $15.50, which they are not. Pensioners are entitled to free consultation from a general practitioner either at the doctor's surgery or in the pensioner's home, and free specialist treatment as an out-patient at any public hospital. They are entitled to free treatment in public wards of public hospitals together with all associated ancillary medical services. They are also entitled to free pharmaceutical benefits. The value of these benefits can be estimated at S3. 10 a week. However, there are more benefits available to them. 
They are entitled to a one-third reduction in telephone rentals, and concessional licence fees for radios - an amount of $1 instead of $6.50. That is quite a considerable saving. Those in remote areas pay only 70c instead of $3.30. For a television licence a pensioner pays $3 instead of $14, which it costs anyone else who is paying taxes. For a combined radio-television licence a pensioner pays $4 instead of $20. This is worth an estimated 17c a week on an average to a pensioner. There is the provision and maintenance of hearing aids at a hiring charge of $10 to those pensioners who would benefit. Financial assistance is given to those who pay rent by way of Commonwealth rental concessions. There is a guardian allowance for pensioners with children. The Commonwealth provides financial assistance to the States to encourage the provision of dwellings for age pensioners. The value of this assistance is estimated at 14c per week for each pensioner. 
State and Commonwealth transport systems provide special fare concessions to pensioners, though it is difficult to calculate the value of these important benefits. But one could see that this could mean a saving of anything between $1 and $2, depending on how much a particular pensioner was able to travel about. Then, of course, councils may defer or remit the local rates of pensioners. Again, it is difficult to calculate the value of those concessions. In certain States additional cash assistance may bc provided to pensioners; medical, dental and optical facilities may be made available; legal aid and assistance with heating costs may be provided, as may necessities such as blankets or clothing where need is demonstrated. Certain voluntary bodies and private business organisations also make available goods and services to pensioners at reduced rates. 
In addition to the benefits already mentioned, the following benefits are available to all pensioners, regardless of means: A subsidy towards nursing home fees of $14 a week where light nursing is involved, or $35 a week if intensive nursing is required. These services are estimated on an average to be worth 80c per week. The Commonwealth also provides financial assistance to encourage the provision of nursing home beds, home nursing, home care, paramedical services and meals on wheels. The combined average value of these benefits would be some 6c per week. A subsidy of $5 a week is paid for hostel type nonprofit institutions for each resident over 80 years of age. This has an estimated value of 4c a week. Housing benefits provided by way of the aged persons homes scheme and rental concessions for aged persons provided under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement are worth an average of 47c a week. I think,  too, I should mention that there are 2 particular requirements. 
In the answer from the Minister I am told they are available to all pensioners regardless of means. 
That is available to them if they need it. 
I am trying to say that no pensioner goes short if be can prove his need. When I say that I mean that a pensioner does not continue to bc in need. Special assistance is available to ensure that no pensioner is in need. 
I do not think that its true. 
Anybody can apply for special assistance if he is at the hunger line. I cannot understand anyone saying that people die of hunger. 
1 shall leave that to the Minister to answer. 
The honourable senator is speaking of certain church homes, but there are other aged persons' homes provided by the States. 
The State housing commissions provide old people's homes. 
J am told they do. If the honourable senator doubts my statement I shall check, but I am told that housing is provided in this way. It is interesting to note that in Australia pensioners do not pay taxes, whereas in other countries they do. We are always having quoted to us in this place what happens in other countries, but we do not hear from honourable senators opposite that pensioners have this benefit. In assessing the situation of pensioners we need to compare the average weekly wage with what pensioners can have in monetary value and what they can receive in fringe benefits. Their benefits certainly would amount to the 30 per cent of the weekly wage for which the Opposition has been asking. Apart from all these things that we hear so much about in the unrealistic and emotional way that these matters are put to us by the Opposition, who tells us of benefits, such as sickness benefits, which are provided in this Bill? We know of the existence of the invalid pension for long term illness, but there is also a sickness benefit which is paid generally for periods up to 6 weeks. Quite often a sickness can be prolonged without the person concerned qualifying for the invalid pension. Under this Bill the sickness benefit will be extended to anyone whose illness continues for a period of 6 weeks and the benefit will be increased from $10 a week to $15.50 per week, which is the rate that other pensioners receive. 
I have said all along that we do not claim that this is the ideal. Australia has a great deal to do. If a Labor government were in office, I would like to see it do all the things which everybody requires of this Government and still be able to make pensions available. 
That remains to be proved. There is tremendous prosperity in this country and the prosperity is available for everyone. 
Rubbish; he did not say that we were bankrupt. He said that we were trying to check inflation because if it is allowed to go on madly it will affect the pension. Stability of the economy will benefit the pensioner as much as it benefits anyone else, and with stability the real value of the pension will not be eroded through inflation. 
Indeed I have not. 
1 am sorry to be contrary, but I have not changed my mind. 1 am saying that it is most important to maintain economic stability and it is important to ensure that housing is available for old people. I have proved already that there are many ways in which assistance for housing is given to old people. It is important to ensure that they do not want in times of sickness. All these things have been attended to, in addition to which the real value of their pension has been maintained. They are able to provide for themselves and they have the incentive to add to their pension by way of extra earnings. They are allowed to have $5,600- 
They have the opportunity. They are allowed to earn $10 a week before their pension is reduced. They can own their house, furniture and motor car, they can have $1,500 worth of insurance and $400 in the bank. That is not bad. I hope that we will be able to do more in time to come, but at this moment the main thing is to be responsible and to see that the economy is checked. I think the Government has done this and I commend it for doing so. I support the Bill. 
In accordance with standing order 408, I ask leave of the Senate to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing, ls there any possibility of negotiating wilh the State Premiers and the Commonwealth the desirability of having a uniform house building code, due to the fact that because of the different codes of various local governments and States there has been a significant increase in the cost of house building? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories. In view of the great problem being experienced in the islands of the South Pacific in finding suitable work opportunities for educated indigenes, is any special consideration being given to this situation in Papua and New Guinea? Is there any board or council in the Territory whose task is to assess how many experts in different fields are required now or in the near future - for example, how many engineers, technicians, architects, surveyors, lawyers, doctors, teachers  and so on? Is there any current plan to give scholarships designed to fill these requirements? If this type of planning for future work opportunities is not under way at present, will the Minister take up with his colleague the urgent need and desirability of initiating such plans immediately? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Semite, lt is supplementary to other questions which have been asked concerning grants to local government authorities. If the Commonwealth Government considers making finance available to local government authorities, particularly those in rural areas, per medium of the State governments will it also consider making it a proviso that grunts will be made available to such authorities only if they in turn desist from raising the rates on rural properties at a time when the primary producers are in great difficulties? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI hope that the answer which I gave to an earlier question will not be interpreted to mean, as  Senator Buttfield  has interpreted it. that the Commonwealth Government is in fact making grants in this manner. I was referring to the procedure which is followed when assistance is made available to local government authorities through the State governments in certain circumstances. 1 had in mind a particular instance in Queensland when it was done in that way. This particular part of Quensland had suffered extensive droughts over a number of seasons. Just because it is decided, on the application of a State government, to give special assistance to a local government authority, 1 do not think that ties can be placed on what is done in the manner that the honourable senator has attempted to do. I should have thought that, on the contrary, it would have been the responsibility of the State government which was seeking to get special assistance for a local government authority in ils State to ensure that the terms and conditions under which it wanted the local government authority to apply any special assistance granted lo it were desirable. 
1 ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether it is a fact that an investigation is being carried out by his Department into the need for another international airport for New South Wales. In view of the fact that in 1969 domestic airlines logged 253,854 flying hours, our international airline, Qantas, totalled 70,770 flying hours, and by comparison general aviation services in Australia logged 1,151,666 flying hours, I ask the Minister whether the needs of general aviation services for airports are being considered as well! When can the results of these investigations be made available to the Senate? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. It follows my previous question. I thank the Minister for his courteous answer on that occasion. He said that the investigation of opportunities for both domestic and general aviation services was very complex and involved the investment of large sums of money. In view of the fact that the general aviation operations are about 4 times as great as the domestic and international operations combined, is any consideration being given to the investment by local authorities or private individuals of sums of money for the opening up of further airstrips to encourage operations in the general aviation field? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and is supplementary to that asked by  Senator Georges.  Did Russia purchase rams from Australia in good faith? 
Is the Government justified in preserving the reputation of Australia in matters of integrity by facilitating the export of goods purchased by Russia? ls Australia to submil to the judgment of the unions and  Senator Georges  on Australia's obligations in matters of international trade? 
1 rise tonight not to support this motion but to express a few views which I think have been expressed before but which obviously need to be repeated in answer to this motion. I was amazed to hear the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  say that he supports the Australian Democratic Labor Party because he agrees that the matter should be debated urgently. I see no reason for not agreeing if a subject of urgency needs to be debated. But that is not the basts of the motion. The motion is in the terms that we need the immediate introduction of necessary legislation to alter the pension rates. I do not agree with this. 1 deplore the fact that the pensioner, the person who is perhaps i little less well off than some others in the community, is being used for political purposes. 
In his opening remarks tonight  Senator Gair  himself said that this was the first time that the DLP had been able to move a motion of this type without having to seek support. In other words, the purpose of his moving this motion is to show the new found strength of the DLP. He is exploiting the pensioner in order to show the public that the DLP can now move a motion without seeking the support of somebody else. This is the wrong motive for debating in this chamber the needs of any one particular section of the community.  Senator Gair  gave us many reasons why the pensioner should nol be exploited - I think they were his words - because of inflation. But. after all, is not the pensioner the person who will suffer quicker than anyone else if inflation does escalate? The Government's responsibility, and prime responsibility, is to consider all sections of the community, and this means the whole of Australia. The pensioner is a part of that whole. If we cannot control inflation at this present time the pensioner, along with all other people in the community, will stiffer. For this reason we are all sympathetic to the pensioner's plight; but we must control inflation first. I would be the first to support any move to increase pensions in the next Budget, if inflation is controlled by then. But I repeat that we must see that inflation is the first thing that we do control. 
Intiation was not imminent at the time the judges' salaries were raised. Although this is not a factor in assessing judges' salaries here, in other countries corruption and bribery have entered into the law. I hope and pray that by giving judges the best of salaries we will continue to eliminate any bribery and corruption. 1 am not suggesting that it might creep in. I said that we must pay people properly for the jobs they do so that they are not tempted by such things. I am fully in support of good wages and salaries for the workers. I think that the Arbitration Commission has made a great mistake, in raising wages lo the extent to which it has done, but I do nol entirely blame it for this. Probably employers have contributed to this inflationary trend by offering incentive wages for skill. It is unfortunate we have not sufficient skilled people but they are all contributing to the inflationary trends. 
Today I went to the religious ceremony to mark the opening of this Parliament and it interested me very much that one of the lessons was based around the story of the Good Samaritan and of Christ's message to the people to look after their neighbour and to love their neighbour as themselves. The servant was placed in the same light in the Good Samaritan story. In his sermon the preacher asked: 'Who is my neighbour?' Today we should be thinking about that serman and asking ourselves: Who is our neighbour? Who are we concerned with in this Parliament? As the preacher said, our neighbour is everyone in need and there are many people in Australia in need. 1 would venture to say that most people in Australia have some need which they require the Government to consider. 
That is not what I call need. There are people with health needs and the Government is concerned with them. There are people in the rural industries who have needs and the Government is considering them. There are people in the industrial field, the educational field and  the  housing industry who have needs. Then there are the needs in regards roads, railways, shipping and air services. The Government has to consider all of them. There are people with physical and mental handicaps who have needs and they are being considered. Child endowment is another need. There are people who have a need in the field of drug abuse and the Government is paying attention to that aspect by making grants for education. There are needs of people overseas which are perhaps even greater than our pensioners' needs and we are contributing towards meeting their needs by our overseas aid. There are many people in need in Australia and  the  Government is paying attention to all those needs. 
I said these were in addition to pensioners. Of course the pensioner is a neighbour and one who needs attention. As to the rise in pensions and the provision of fringe benefits over the years 1 do not need to repeat what the Minister and many of us have said on many occasions in this Senate. However, it suits certain people to forget those benefits to the pensioner in order to arouse the emotions of the people, ft is very easy to say that the poor pensioner is not getting a fair deal. I ask: Who pays for the extra things which  Senator Gair  is asking the Government to do? Who will pay for the abolition of the means test? Who will pay for many of the things he has asked for? The main payers will be the family man who has great needs himself and the young person who will probably pay into the taxation pool for 50 years before he qualifies for any of these benefits. He may never qualify at all. It is the young person who is about to establish himself who is trying to set up a home to get married or to rear children, who should be given the best of opportunities.  Senator Gair  would call on him to pay. I am sorry for the young person, the married man and the family man. They need attention also. I am not unsympathetic with the pensioners but let us keep these problems in balance. Let us consider ail people in need in Australia and stop seeking political credit by picking on those subjects which we know can arouse the emotions of the people. We heard an honourable senator, I think  Senator Murphy,  speak about the judgment of the people or the judgment of the churches on the Government. After all, ii is the responsibility of the churches to pay attention to those who are in particular need. The churches can well pass judgment because theirs is not a balanced responsibility; it is a particular responsibility. 1 am saying that we in this Parliament have to maintain a balanced responsibility in order to see that everybody gets a fair go 
No. we certainly have not a detached view. We have a very involved view. It embraces all the people who need attention. It would be irresponsible for any government simply to pay attention to one section and to prejudice all the other sections by allowing the inflationary trend to be aggravated. To me it is completely ridiculous to hear  Senator Gair  and others ask for a pension equal to half the minimum wage. After all, a married pensioner couple do not have the responsibility to build a home, of beginning to educate their children or building up their requirements. This is the basis on which the minimum wace is fixed - the requirements of a man, his wile and his growing family. In most cases the pensioner - the invalid pensioner could be the exception - and certainly the age pensioner does nol have those responsibilities and therefore does not need half of the minimum wage to maintain himself. 
I shall make only one further point. 1 am amazed at the campaign for a little Budget, lt is most .selfish to suggest that the pension rate should be raised, and that in order to find the money to pay for the increase the tax benefit granted to the lower and middle income earner should be revoked. After all, during the years that this Government has been in office the pension rate has been raised, I think, on 1 4 occasions, but the rate of taxation for the lower and middle income taxpayer has not been reduced once. Now it is his turn, and it is completely unreasonable to say that the pension rate should be raised at the expense of the lower and middle income earner. I hope that this suggestion is not repeated because, as 1 have said, this is an area of need and we, as a Government, have to watch for these areas of need. 1 think it is most unreasonable to ask that the pension rate should be increased at the present time when we are devoting our attention to checking inflation and thereby eventually benefiting every section of the community. 
Can the Minister for Works inform the Senate what 
Commonwealth Government expenditures for building projects are likely to be cut or curtailed in the near future in the Government's anti-inflation drive? Will the Minister assure the Senate that due consideration will be given to the relative importance of stable State economies? For example, will the Minister assure the Senate that in a State such as South Australia where only one Government project may have been envisaged, compared with the position in New South Wales or Victoria where several such projects may have been envisaged, that that one project will not be cancelled or postponed in view of the drastic repercussions of such action on the building industry and in view of the fact that cancellation of one of several projects in a larger State would not be so drastically detrimental to the economy of that State? 
ls. the Minister representing the Minister, for the Interior aware of the fact that many honourable senators are receiving copious letters expressing concern about  a  rumoured change in the basis of land rent in Canberra? As the position seems very confused could the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government proposes a change in the near future and. if so, what the Government is proposing to do in the matter of land sales and rental ir. the Australian Capital Territory? 
1 wish to express my views briefly on the proposed amendment. I am in favour of the Bill, which seeks to allow a representative of the students' union to serve on the Australian National University Council. I think it is a good thing for alt sections of the community to meet in that type of forum. Those people who over the years may have gained great wisdom can profit from meeting the students' representatives to hear what they expect to receive from a university. However.  I  also believe that the students' representatives should have sufficient wisdom to be able to learn- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator  Sir Magnus  Cormack) -  Senator Buttfield  is entitled io bring into the chamber any supporting documents she needs for her speech. 1 'do not think any demand can properly be made that she table those documents ' unless she quotes from them. ' 
-! am amazed at the challenge, because j. have not mentioned any document. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  1 have ruled against the tabling of the document. : 
I have not mentioned any document. I am speaking about the rights and merits of the Bill. 
 There is no such copy on my desk.  I  do. noi know how- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - I have ruled against ' the point of order raised by  Senator Keeffe. Senator Buttfield  will proceed with her speech. 
-! am speaking about the merits of the Bill which concerns the appointment of  a  .students' representative to the Australian National University Council. 1 favour that move, but I also support the amendment .moved by  Senator McManus  of the Australian Democratic Labor Party that we express an opinion that any representative of the students who serves on the Council' should show a sense of responsibility. I have had a brief glance at the publication which has caused a good deal of upset among honourable senators. 1, too, think it is most unfortunate that a publication of this type should be put into the hands of the community by students. I hope that civil action will be taken against those responsible. But that' is not the issue in this case. J feel that' in asking for a representative from the student body to bc pui on the Council we must expect that a responsible person will, bc so appointed. To my mind at present we are  not  faced with this situation. If we approve of a representative of the student's union- 
I shall make my speech in my own way. I believe that the representative should be a responsible person. Unfortunately at the present time the Student's Union has appointed the editorial staff for whatever publication comes out of the University. Therefore that representative of the Union should take the responsibility for any publication. For this pornographic material to be published is in flagrant opposition to the law. What disturbs me more than anything else is the fact that taxpayers' money is being put into universities lo keep students there in order to produce better citizens for the community. If the taxpayers' money is to be put to this purpose 1 believe we must keep some control over what goes on in the universities. I am sick aud tired of hearing about academic freedom. The students are nol asking for academic freedom; they are asking for freedom for academics to break the law. 1 am opposed to this. 1 support the amendment which has been moved on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. We are expressing an opinion on those who may be appointed to the council. We are approving oi: the fact that they may be appointed and saying that they should show a sense of responsibility and not ask for undue freedoms for those in universities which would not be granted to other sections of the community. I do not think the taxpayers should be asked to assist university students under those conditions. 
 I hasten to say that although I am not going to support this motion of urgency I very strongly believe in the importance of a vital family life. I believe in the importance of healthy, happy children, in a home ownership community and in child endowment to go to the mother for the direct assistance of the child. 
I am going to tell the Senate why I do not. 1 certainly hope that in time the Government will be able to increase child endowment. We know that the Government has looked at this subject on many occasions. But it has assisted the happy family and the happy, healthy child in many other ways. That is the important point. To pick on a point and say that the Government has been culpably neglectful is most unfair. The Government has an amazing record of assistance for the family. I was surprised to hear  Senator Byrne  stressing the poverty aspect of this situation. If that is the reason for objecting to the fact that the Government has not increased child endowment why does not the honourable senator suggest a means test so that it will go specifically to those in most urgent need? Why does he not suggest that child endowment bc made taxable in all cases because obviously those in the higher income bracket will not then receive anything. But the honourable senator has not suggested that. He has suggested that child endowment should be raised but he has stressed it is for the people who are in need and in the poverty bracket. That is an unrealistic argument. It seems to me amazing, too, that  Senator Fitzgerald  has stressed that this urgency motion is hypocritical because all it does is suggest that we resume 5 minutes earlier tomorrow. I am amazed to hear anybody from the Australian Labor Party make that point because we sit here day after day listening to urgency motions moved on behalf of the Opposition when we ought to be getting through the business of the Senate. 
We are nearing the end of a session. Very often we waste time on something which cannot affect legislation. Then at the end of the session we will be told over and over again that we are not allowing enough time to debate matters of legislation. That is an incredible argument to come from the Opposition.  Senator Fitzgerald  also said that the Labor Party initiated all the social services legislation for age pensioners. To me it seems appropriate quickly to run through one or two benefits which the Liberal Party and Country Party have introduced such as medical benefits for pensioners, aged persons income tax concessions, pharmaceutical benefits for pensioners, the aged persons home savings grant scheme, television licence concessions for pensioners, additional pension for second and subsequent children, home nursing subsidy, supplementary assistance for pensioners, nursing home benefits, mothers allowance for widow pensioners with children, subsidies for the provision of accommodation for disabled persons, telephone rental concessions for pensioners, guardians allowance for aged and invalid pensioners with children, sheltered employment allowances, hearing aid services, double pension entitlement to widows or widowers for 12 weeks followng the death of a spouse, training scheme for widow pensioners, subsidies for dwellings for aged persons, personal care subsidy for aged pensioners, home care and paramedical services, and meals-on-wheels subsidy. This is an incredible record. Yet  Senator Fitzgerald  said that the Labor Party initiated all social services for pensioners. 
I said that the Government has an amazing record. I think the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  listed some of the things the Government has done to assist the family. I am not going into detail because of lack of time but I shall repeat the things this Government has done to assist the family, either indirectly or directly, and also to assist children in addition to the child endowment allowance. The Government has introduced and increased the benefits under the health scheme. It has introduced the pharmaceutical benefits which assists the family and the child and introduced income tax concessions in respect of children at a total cost to revenue in the year 1967-68 - the latest figure I could obtain - of $266m. The Government has made free milk available for children. It has made provision for handicapped children and the children of pensioners. It has made available hearing aids, education scholarships, maternity allowances and the home savings grant about which I will have a few more words to say in a moment. This Government has made available a wide range of benefits. I repeat that it is unrealistic to pick on one aspect and say that the Government has been culpably neglectful of children. 
The second item in the matter of urgency was in respect of a New Zealand scheme for capitalisation of child endowment. I think  Senator Byrne  would find if he went to New Zealand that this scheme has not been a success. What can happen and what has happened on many occasions is that people who are finding it difficult to buy a home capitalise on their endowment and buy a home which is too expensive for them. Perhaps they cannot keep up their payments properly. Then the child suffers very much because there is no regular payment coming in as our system provides when a mother is receiving a payment directly for the benefit of the child. 
ft is certainly not unanimously agreed that it is a good scheme. I am saying that it can lead to abuse. We have a much better scheme in Australia where the mother knows that while her children are under 16 years of age she will receive a weekly payment for their direct assistance. I believe that the combination of the 2 schemes which we have in Australia - the home savings grant and child endowment - are much more equitable, generous and effective for children than if we adopted a scheme like the New Zealand one. 
Finally, I want to say something about the homes savings grant because it is the third item mentioned in the matter of urgency which states that the Government has failed to assist young married couples by up-dating the amount of assistance given under the Homes Savings Grant scheme. I believe the Government has done a great service for young married people who either have or are about to have families by assisting them to buy their homes. We believe in a home owning community. This scheme has assisted enormously. Two hundred thousand such grants have been made available to families to buy their homes. Under this scheme, those people who receive the grant have to buy their homes. As 200,000 people received this grant that is the number who have bought their homes. This is of enormous benefit to families and children who know that they can obtain this assistance. 
The Government has amended the homes savings grants legislation on 3 occasions and has increased the value of a house which can be bought with the aid of this grant. If homes savings grants were increased to $600 at this moment it would cost the Government more than $2m and I do not think it would achieve a great deal. On the matter of costs I should like to cite a few figures to show what would be the cost of implementing the first point contained in the proposal advanced by the Opposition, that is, to raise child endowment If the endowment for each child were raised by 50c per week it would cost about $101m 
We have to make expenditures in all directions. So much is being done in such a wide range of areas that it is not realistic to spend $101m on one item, thereby possibly sacrificing other benefits which would achieve greater effect. It is interesting to note that there are 1,700,000 first children in respect of whom parents are receiving child endowment, that there are 1,165,000 second children, 569,000 third children, 232,000 fourth children, 85,000 fifth children, 32,000 sixth children, 12,000 seventh children, 4,000 eighth children, 1,500 ninth children and 818 tenth or later children. To increase the endowment in respect of each of those children would cost $!01m. Tt seems to me that we should be praising the Government for what it is doing, for having such a wide range of interests in respect of which improvements are made regularly for the benefit of the family and the children, instead of picking out one item and saying that in this respect the Government has been culpably neglectful. I repeat that T hope that the Government can increase child endowment, but T would not like to see it sacrifice other community interests and community services to achieve an improvement in one area only. 
I rise to oppose the motion. I agree with  Senator Gair  that this matter should not be regarded as one of urgency but I disagree with him on other aspects of his remarks. Following my visit to China some 7 or 8 years ago I have advocated visits to that country. I have advocated also continuing trade and eventually recognition, but I do not think that recognition is urgent at the present time and 1 do not think that it would be wise for us to rush into it. I have advocated visits to China because it is necessary for us to get to know the people of China probably more than any other country and for them to get to know us. We cannot expect to gain or foster friendship and warmth with a country unless we set out to know its people and to help them to know us. 
The propaganda which is put out by the Communist Government of Red China is designed to foster hatred. The Communists have painted pictures of we of the Western world as foreign devils. It does not matter where you go in China - I went by train into the more outlying- areas - there is intense hatred of the people of the West because the Chinese do not know us. They know only that our white skin makes us foreign devils. 
I did my best to get some response on a friendly nature from them. I smiled upon the people as I smile upon the honourable senator in the hope of getting a friendly smile in return, but I did not get any friendly response from the Chinese people in mainland China. The position .was- different in Taiwan. The attitude of the people of Red China indicates that the propaganda being put out by the Communist Government is very successful. I believe that the only way to overcome it is to send many visitors into that country in the hope eventually that we may be able to break down the hatred which exists. 
Indeed he was. He gave me a visa but no facilities were made available to me. However, that is another story. I got a visa and I travelled through China. While there I went through the Revolutionary Museum. The Museum is an exercise in intense hatred. The Director showed me all of the articles in the Museum which are designed to build hatred of the Western world. He would not tell me in English what they were but he would reply to my questions in Chinese and have his answers interpreted for me so that every Chinese person in the Museum would look upon me as an instrument of hatred, thus fostering in them a feeling of hatred. I do not wish to go back through the past of the Chinese people, as  Senator Gair  did, and say that they have a rotten record. I am willing to forget the aggression which they have practised if their personal tendencies, or even appearances, are towards a warmer, friendlier and more peaceful attitude. I think that attitude should be fostered and I would be the first to encourage it. It does not do any good to look to the past. 
I deal now with the matter of trade. While in China I sought an interview with the Minister for Trade because I wanted to find out for myself the attitude of the Chinese people towards future trade with Australia. 1 was told by the Minister for Trade that China would continue to buy wheat and other articles from us if our prices were right and if we sought to buy more goods from her. When I asked him what kind of goods he had in mind, he said that there were several things that we could buy, and he mentioned particularly handicrafts. Many more articles are coming into Australia now from mainland China than was the case previously, and I hope that that fact eventually will convince the Chinese people that we are keen to have friendly relations with them and to continue trading together on a friendly, reasonable and properly thought-out basis. I am not sure that the wheat we have sold to China in the past has been a very economical exercise for us. I think that it has been heavily subsidised, but it is a good thing that we have been able to sell wheat to them and I hope that we will continue to do so. 
I went through China by train especially so that I could look at agricultural conditions in the country areas. It was evident that in the south they grow rice and in the north they grow wheat. They are subject to the vagaries of the weather perhaps more so than are farmers in most countries. There are huge rivers which flood and they experience extreme droughts and serious fires. Nevertheless they can grow more rice than they consume but they do not grow sufficient wheat because of the difficulties associated wilh the weather, the flooding of rivers and so on. For that reason I think that they will continue to need wheat and I hope that they will resume trading with us in the near future. 
One must congratulate the people of China on their efforts to make their country produce. It is a most laborious exercise because they have very few of the farming aids that we have to make agricultural pursuits easy, effective and economic. They work intensely hard, and for that I congratulate them. I praise the people and their Government for the development that they have undertaken in the construction of factories and in the manufacture of goods. They have done a very good job and for that reason I am not attacking the Government of China. I give credit where credit is due. 1 certainly hope that the developing attitude of warmth and friendship will continue. 
I was amazed to hear  Senator Murphy  claim that  President  Nixon had said that America was recognising the People's Republic of China. I understand that that is completely untrue. The  President  said that being friendly with China and encouraging people to go there did not involve recognition. On 16th April he said that it was premature to anticipate any change in United States policy of recognition or representation in the United Nations, and that that was very much in the future. I believe that eventually recognition will come. Like  Senator Gair,  I think that it should come after the entry pf mainland China into the United Nations when it has demonstrated that it intends to recognise the principles of the United Nations in maintaining peace and in settling disputes in peaceful ways. 
I heard some amazing statements made by members of the Opposition.  Senator Murphy  said that we on the Government side claim that Chiang Kai-shek's Government' is the Government df mainland China! That is a distortion of. the truth. However, we do claim that Chiang Kaishek's Government was the last freely elected government in mainland China. He "is now running the Government in Taiwan. If we do recognise Red China I hope that we will never claim that Taiwan is not a country which we should recognise. If Chian Kai-shek's Government is still the freely elected Government in Taiwan I hope that we will continue to recognise it. 
I do not know what the situation is there. 
I said if that is the freely elected Government in Taiwan. 
That is true. There are no elections in mainland China. We intend to recognise both countries but we will not be bludgeoned into recognising Red China and massacring, if that is the word, the people of Taiwan. I was also amazed to hear  Senator Turnbull  say that the Chinese people, being Communists, would not want to come to Australia. Certainly people could come  as  representatives of a great world power. Probably that is right but they would come as representatives of a Communist power and we do not want that. We want to make sure that they have friendly intentions before we recognise them. The honourable senator said that he could not think of any other country which would tolerate the present situation in Hong Kong. That is an amazing statement because' Hong Kong is of great value to mainland China for the entrance of overseas currency and as an outlet for its goods. The situation of Hong Kong certainly suits China very well indeed. 

 Senator Turnbull wants a parliamentary delegation to visit China. I would hope to see many people go there. My own visit illustrates that that country will admit people of any party, but.. it would be difficult to send  a  parliamentary delegation to a country which/has no parliamentary institution. It would' 'not' be possible to have an exchange of parliamentarians because Red China does hot have any parliamentarians. I would hot like to see our representatives attempting to enter Red China at the time of the May Day or October celebrations. I  Have  seen enough of the propaganda exercises carried on in China. I think that the times of such celebrations should be the last times that our representatives seek to go there. At those times the people of China rally in their millions to demonstrate. They are scared not to demonstrate. I hope that that era is passing, but we should not visit Red China at such times. 
I would foster friendship with the Chinese people. I do not agree with  Senator Cant  that we have sent  a  ping-pong team to Red China. The team , went there of its own will, and jolly good luck to it. I hope many more sporting, professional or other groups will visit China. They will find it an extremely interesting country and no obstacles will be put in their way. However, I do not believe that  a  parliamentary delegation should undertake such  an  exercise. 
Can the Minister for Health inform the Senate of the facts which influenced him to make the statement that fees at the Canberra Community Hospital would be raised by 44 per cent in public wards and 52 per cent in private wards? Has he considered what effect this might have on all State hospitals in the way of up grading fees and, if so, does he think that they will do the same? 
Is the Minister for Health aware of a report in this morning's 'Canberra Times' that the resignation of  Dr Ford,  the Director of Rehabilitation in the Canberra Hospital, has been announced? Is he aware also that in presenting his resignation  Dr Ford  has expressed his frustrations with the many difficulties he has experienced in directing that important part of the Hospital's work? What is being done to prevent further resignations in this very important section of hospital work? Has expenditure in this department been cut down due to the Government's economy drive, and what other activities in this Hospital have been cut for the same reason? 
Would the Minister for Health agree that nuclear medicine is one of the most important areas of modern medical practice, particularly in respect to up to date methods of diagnosis and surgery? Is it a fact that many of the necessary radioactive isotopes in this field are unavailable in Australia? Is this because there is no cyclotron in any State or Commonwealth Territory to manufacture these short lived radioactive substances? Is it a fact that such a machine can be purchased for less than $500,000? If these are facts, will the Minister look into the possibility of the Commonwealth Government taking urgent steps to have such a machine installed in the Australian National University so that these valuable substances can be made available to State hospital units as well as to the people in the Australian Capital Territory? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry and has particular reference to those honourable senators who claim that Taiwan-Australia interests should be submerged for those of Red China and Australia in the recognition of Red China. Is it a fact that the United States ambassador in Taiwan has publicly predicted that Taiwan's international trade volume may be equal to or in excess of that of mainland China in 2 or 3 years' time? Is it a fact that, taking 1968 as a base year, Taiwan increased its international trade by 33 per cent last year and by 23.9 per cent in 1969 while mainland China increased its trade by 6.3 per cent in 1969 and 5.8 per cent last year? Can the Minister give similar figures for the volumes and growth rates of trade between Taiwan and Australia and Red China and Australia? 
asked the Minis ter for Health, upon notice: 
Has expenditure in the Rehabilitation Department of the Canberra Hospital been cut due to the Federal Government's economy drive. 
Are there any other activities in this hospital which have been cut for the same reason. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Housing whether he has had an opportunity to examine the announced Australian Labor Party policy to subsidise home building costs? Is it a fact that  Mr Whitlam  has said that a Labor government would grant a 2 per cent subsidy on all home building loans? If this is so, does the Minister consider that this would deter people from saving for their own house as the larger the loan the greater the subsidy? Can I also ask for an explanation of what was meant when  Mr Whitlam  said that the subsidy would be a short term measure? How short is it likely to be? Will it be for one year only? If not, how can the Minister explain  Mr Whitlam's  comments that the loan would cost the Government only $80m a year? If the subsidy is to continue for more than a year will not the amount be a continuing and additional amount of $80m each year? 
 I support the Bill, not because I think it is the answer lo present difficulties but because we need to have legislation to carry on until the introduction of legislation, promised by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  which will go into far more detail and will be the result, I hope, of consultation with the people concerned. Obviously the High Court's recent decision invalidated the Trade Practices Act and legislation of this type is necessary to enable the Commissioner of Trade Practices to carry on. It is also necessary as a sign to industry representatives that they need to watch their procedures if no further controls are to be implemented. The Commissioner has been able to deal with some cases without going to the Trade Practices Tribunal. By talking to the people concerned he has been able to persuade them not to proceed with proposed agreements. This is a good factor and I hope that that success will continue. That would not be possible without the introduction of this legislation as the Commissioner would be left without effective persuasive powers to handle industry. 
I am not happy about some aspects of the Bill. To begin with, I am sorry to see that the word 'restrictive' reappears in the title. It was taken out because it was regarded as being provocative to industry. I believe that it has reappeared so that this legislation may be easily distinguished from the Acts which have become invalid following the High Court's recent decision. I hope that in the future something will be done so that it will not appear that industry needs to be restricted. 
I believe that the industries of this country have done a remarkable job. I did not hear the name of the person whom  Senator Murphy  was quoting but I was sorry to hear him quote a statement to the effect that industrial practices in Australia are noi good. He went on to refer to monopolies. This old bogy of monopolies has been raised before by the Australian Labor Party. There are very few, if any, real monopolies in Australia and I hope to goodness it will be recognised that when there are takeovers and industries become bigger this is all to the good. We need expansion. We need mass production to keep down costs so that we may be enabled to trade with overseas countries. Therefore takeovers in that sense are not a bad thing, so long as there is competition. As far as I know all big industries are competitive in this country and there are no real monopolies. 
1 said 'as far as I know' I am not in a position to go into it in great detail, but some industries which have been called monopolies are not in fact monopolies. Competition either from overseas or from within Ausoralia has kept prices at a reasonable level. I frankly dislike the situation in which prices are controlled, as has happened in some States. The result is that prices rise to the controlled figure. Competition, as far as I can see, is much more likely to keep prices down than are control measures, which result in prices rising to the controlled figure. 
Some provisions in the Bill are disturbing to industrialists. I refer to the secrecy provisions contained in clause 84. Under the provisions of this clause, the Commissioner and his staff are to keep information secret. Yet. under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act, the Commissioner is obliged to furnish a report. In his recent report, the Commissioner mentions 2 cases and gives some details of them. It seems that this could be a way in which the Commissioner does furnish information which this Bill says should be kept secret. 
On the other hand, no protection is given to industry when it has to provide documents or information to the Tribunal. Clause 84(2.) provides: 
Where the Tribunal is satisfied that it is desirable to do so by reason of the confidential nature of any evidence or matter or for any other reason, the Tribunal may - 
direct that a hearing or part of a hearing shall take place in private . . . 
But this is too late. Once evidence has been furnished by a person or a company, they have no assurance that it will be secret. Its publication could be most detrimental to their business activities. In fact, I understand that the Tasmanian brewers pulled out of an appeal to the Tribunal for the very reason that they believed that the publication of the information that they supplied would be detrimental to them. So, they did not go on with their proposed agreement. Certainly in the United Kingdom an assurance is given to an industrialist that any information that he provides will be kept secret if he so requests. This, I do think, is a provision which should be introduced in this country so that this assurance can be given to industrialists when they do come forward and appear before the Tribunal. 
Apart from those remarks, I repeat that I believe that we do need some Act to enable the Commissioner to carry on his duties. Certainly a watching brief needs to be held to see that no malpractice is performed. But 1 do not think anything of a serious nature is likely to occur. 1 agree that the Government must hold this power and for that reason I support the Bill. It fills the gaps. It returns the power of the legislation virtually to where it was before but it establishes that the Tribunal can use its power. 
I would like to see something done to assist the Commissioner to review the agreements that are before him. I understand that he has 13,000 in front of him. A great deal of time and expense are involved in processing them, and industry is held up. This function ought to be able to be performed more effectively. When agreements are registered they should be considered more quickly. It seems too that appeals and presentations are extremely costly to industry. We are trying all the time to keep our prices at a level at which we can engage in trade overseas. A great deal of frustration and expense result from the requirement to go through the various processes necessary to justify agreements to the Commissioner. 
With these few suggestions which I hope will be noted by the Attorney-General, I express the hope that he will consult - I am sure that he will - with industrialists before introducing any Bill to strengthen the Act. In my experience, these people are anxious to do the best for Australia and the Australian people just as we in this Senate are. Therefore, I urge that industrialists be consulted and that no amending Bill be introduced without due time being provided for us and for the industrialists to give consideration to what is required. In the past we have been hustled into passing Bills of this type.  1,  for one, have taken a personal interest in the operations of the Trade Practices Act. My interests now extend to this Bill. It is too difficult- 
I think that, on the whole, it endeavours to. I said that I think that big business is endeavouring to do the best for Australia and the Australian people. People outside the industry do not always agree that what is done is the best that can be done. This is why consultation is important. I do not think that industry in general in Australia is out to fleece people or to carry out bad practices. 
I agree that this legislation is necessary. I have said that. A control, but not a hampering control, is required. But the control should not be  one  which adds a great  deal  of cost to  an  industry in order to produce what is required by the Government. With those remarks,  1  support the Bill. 
-I  ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is it correct to assume that the presentinternational currency dilemma is of vital importance to the Australian people? If so, will the Minister indicate what fields of Australian endeavour are most affected by it, and how? Will he agree that the Press articles about floating yen and devalued dollars are very difficult for the average person to understand?' Will the Minister agree that today's headline in the 'Financial Review' - Currency Crisis Crunch Near' - is a clear and comprehensible indication of the immediate situation? If it is possible for a financial journal to express itself in plain language, will he ask the Treasurer to explain in equally plain language in a Press release just what the crisis is all about? 
I direct my ques  tion to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As Christmas is coming and the goose is getting fat will he take pity on at least the female members of the Senate by telling us whether we can hope to finish this session before Christmas, or at least in time to get home to kill and cook the goose? 
By way of explanation 1 say that I propose to ask a question that is supplementary to one which  Senator Poke  asked some time ago. He has asked 2 more questions since that one,  Mr President,  although I have been trying to catch your eye. 
I rise to speak briefly in praise of this Bill and to express my opposition to the amendment which has been proposed. I do not propose to canvass the many points which are contained in this Bill. However, i do wish to point out the several great benefits it will provide to not only the States but also home builders themselves. The Bill contains 5 particular benefits. Firstly, it provides for a basic grant to the States in place of an interest concession. Secondly, it provides for rental assistance to those who need it. Thirdly, the Bill provides for the Commonwealth to take over the obligation of providing Service homes. Fourthly, there is the sinking fund contribution which, although it is not yet clear as to how much it will be, is likely to be to the order of about $114m over the 54 years in which the Loan Council borrowings are repayable. Fifthly, there is the provision in regard to the home builders account, about which I will be saying something in more detail later as 1 feel it is the important part of this Bill and which seems to have been overlooked by Opposition speakers. 
 First of all, 1 wish to say something about the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Gietzelt  on behalf of the Opposition. To begin with, 1 am not clear as to what would happen if this amendment were to be carried because it merely states that the Senate is of the opinion that the Commonwealth Government should provide adequate funds for certain purposes. I should imagine that if the Senate were to accept the proposition that it was of this opinion it would be the end of this Bill and no assistance would be provided to the States or to the home builders. For that reason alone. 1 oppose the amendment. But perhaps of more importance is that fact that most of the categories listed under  Senator Gietzelt's  amendment  aTe  already being looked after. For example, the low income earners are to be assisted - rightly so - by the housing commissions. The pensioners are being assisted by the Commonwealth Government. There is a scheme which provides housing for single pensioners at something like $2.50 to S3 a week. 1 understand that some 1 17 houses of that type have been already approved. 
The third category referred to in the Opposition's amendment is the migrants. I think  we  are all aware of the fact that the Commonwealth Government is assisting migrants in this regard and that there is a scheme which fluctuates with the migrant intake. After they have been brought here migrants are put into hostels in order to give them time in which to earn a little more money or find out where they wish to have a house. They then become eligible for housing under exactly the same conditions as any other Australian. 1 approve of the fact that no distinction is drawn between the eligibility for houses of Australians and migrants who have become Australian citizens. 
That would be the case if preference was given in too many instances. I am simply saying that migrants are now treated in exactly the same way as any other Australians. 
I do not think the English migrants have to take out citizenship. 1 think they automatically become Australian citizens. 
As British citizens they do not have to take out Australian citizenship in order to become eligible for such benefits, but other migrants have to take out Australian citizenship. I cannot give the exact figures, but 1 think that most of them do choose to become Australian citizens. 
I do not think that there is any need for them so do so. They consider themselves to be British citizens. After all, we are all British subjects. I do not think the point is a very valid one. 
That is quite true. I think it is a pity that that is the situation. 1 hope the British Government takes note of what we have been saying, lt is also out of order to mention in this amendment the special housing needs of Aborigines. There is in existence a scheme which assists Aborigines in the field of housing. Under that scheme $25m will be provided to the States over 5 years for the building of housing units for Aborigines. So far $ 14.5m has been spent for this purpose in building 2,000 units for Aborigines. I nm sorry that  Senator Gietzelt  has not been listening to my last few comments, which have been a direct answer to the plea he has made to the Senate to support his amendment. As  Senator Gietzelt  is now listening, I shall repeat my last few comments. Aborigines have been assisted by a grant which has been made by the Commonwealth Government to the Stales to the extent of $14.5m for the building of 2,000 units. In all $25m will be provided for this purpose over a 5-year period. The plight of deserted wives is mentioned in the amendment. Deserted wives will be assisted under this legislation by way of rental rebates. It is in the power of the States to decide who should gain these rental rebates. The Commonwealth will be providing money in the form of straight out grants to the States to allow the States to make their own decisions as to who should receive rental rebates. It is for those reasons that I say that none of the categories mentioned in the Opposition's amendment needs special consideration. 
J wish to speak in general terms about housing in Australia. During a recent trip overseas I made it my business to examine the housing situation in many European countries. I would venture to say that Australians are belter housed than anybody in any of the European countries I visited. 
I go further and say that because European countries had to overcome the devastation caused to them by war they probably had to build a less spacious type of house in order to overcome the shortage quickly. This is very obvious in many countries. Very small housing units are provided for many people. I venture to cav that a good deal of the housing in Sweden is of the oneroom type. The whole family lives in one room. People wanting an up-to-date new house in Sweden are lucky if they can get 2 bedrooms for a family unit. Nevertheless the authorities have done a good job. Australia might eventually think that the way in which those countries are assisting with housing is the better way. I think there is a great deal of merit in the fact that they do not set up expensive government instrumentalities to build houses. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber certainly will agree that housing commissions are expensive bureaucratic institutions. They are a costly way of providing houses for people because they are subsidised. A great deal of the cost of running these large departments, if you like to call them that, is not costed into the price of the houses. I go one step further and say that the private building industry could and does build very much more cheaply than the housing commissions. However, if the housing commissions limit their activity to providing subsidised houses for low income people then I approve of them; but many : of them go beyond that and compete with private industry in building houses for sale. This is a completely wrong way to use housing grants. 1 maintain that the grants should be limited to providing rental housing for low income groups. I approve of that. 
In European countries assistance is given in other ways to low income people, lt is done by means of providing a direct subsidy to people living in rented homes. Subsidies are given also to co-operative building groups which will build units for people in compliance with the Government's requirements as to their being within a certain price range and of a certain standard. This, I believe, is the most efficient and effective way of building houses for the people. Encouraging competition in private industry to do this job is a more efficient and less costly way than setting up government commissions. 
I want to say a little about the provision :n this Bil! for 30 per cent of the grant to go to the States being allocated to building societies or other approved lending authorities. To my mind it is rather a pity that &lt;-o often the words 'co-operative terminating building societies' creeps into this legislation. To my mind the terminating societies are not the most efficient way of assisting people. I believe that the co-operative permanent societies are better. Many of the present day permanent building societies started as terminating' societies, it is far more efficient to have permanent building societies. I stress the fact that in cooperative building societies we are getting the best of both worlds because they are not out to make profits and their entire business relates to the field of lending money for housing. This makes them more efficient in comparison with. say. the banks which engage in other activities. In addition, the societies can concentrate on lending to the low income and medium income groups, lt would be far wiser if the Government eventually were to talk about cooperative building societies rather than cooperative terminating building societies. I emphasise the difference. Honourable senators may ask why, in addition to the reason I have just given, building societies are so much better equipped to assist in housing finance than other organisations, be they government instrumentalities or the banks. Some housing authorities use private builders to construct homes for them. Certainly the South Australian Housing Trust does this. 
That is so. The Trust concentrates on a few chosen builders. It docs not have a range of builders working for it: nor does it have private architects. I understand that the Housing Trust employs about 38 architects within its own precincts. Goodness knows what they do because there is not much architecture involved in the houses that the Trust builds. To my mind they are extraordinarily monotonous. However, the Housing Trust builds up its costs by maintaining this expensive overhead setup, lt then calls on private builders, its chosen few, to submit estimates. Those builders engaged to build for the Housing Trust do it at such a low rate because otherwise they are squeezed out. It is the number of houses that they build which allows them to submit a price that the Trust expects. 1 believe that often the builders make only $5, SIO or S50 a house. Certainly that is very good for the people who are to have them but the costs add up in the other indirect ways of which I have been speaking. On the other hand, if building societies make money available for housing through the range of competing builders I am quite sure - the facts show that this is so - that they can build more cheaply and more efficiently and therefore assist a greater number of people. 
I do not know that that is true. 1 repeat that the Housing Trust has a chosen few who do nothing but concentrate on the number of houses which it is able to allocate to them. Certainly the private owner cannot have the same advantage and has to pay a relatively higher price, although, I stress, not in actual terms. 
That is exactly what they are doing and it is a great pity. 
There are incompetent builders? 
I think the honourable senator is now arguing against his own suggestion about State government housing. If that is the case he might well reprimand the Housing Trust for accepting such standards. 
I am not in a position to know. I am criticising the hidden costs operating against people who apply to the Housing Trust for ownership of a home. 
That is one of the hidden costs. There are many others. There are enormous overheads in any department doing business such as the housing commissions are doing. All of us know that there are very few government departments which will prune their costs in the way that private indusry will do. Therefore I stress the fact that I approve of the continuing benefit being provided by this grant to the home builders' account and I maintain that the States will gain benefit from the grant only if they continue to allocate properly money to their building societies. It is regrettable that only 30 per cent of this grant is to go to building societies, lt would be far bet er if the amount were gradually increased until at least 50 per cent of the money went directly to the private sector. 
 I agree that this is an extremely valuable Bill. It will assist in providing housing. I stress again that Australian housing is good, it is efficient and is relatively readily available to people. I am not going to say that housing is cheap because housing is not cheap anywhere in the world today. But the sad story that the Opposition is trying to put over about there being such a terrific housing crisis for the people of Australia is unfounded. Housing is very much in the Government's mind, lt has done an extremely good job in providing assistance to those who need houses and who are not in a position to alford them. For that reason 1 commend the Bill and support it. 
Has the 
Attorney-General seen from time to time notices in prominent places in daily newspapers stating the value of a person's estate when he dies? Can the Minister state whether there is a Federal requirement that this information be published? If it is not a requirement, can something be done to alter the position? This seems to be a blatant intrusion into people's private affairs. 
(12.4)- There is a recommendation in the report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation on which I would like to comment briefly. I refer to the recommendation that a de facto wife should be allowed to draw an allowance while her husband is away. In support of my request to the Government to act on this recommendation quickly 1 would like to cite one case with which I have been dealing, ft is the case of a young man who has been to 
Vietnam and who thought he was married before he went away. He had been away for nearly a year when he heard that his wife', I will call her, had committed suicide. The next day he was told that he had not been properly married to the girl because it was a bigamous marriage. He has been asked to repay the $1,350 which was paid to her as a marriage allowance. In raising this question with representatives of the armed forces, I have been told that for 10 years the Parliamentary Counsel has been looking at this situation. That is why I urge the Government to act speedily. It is a cruel imposition for young men who have been away fighting to return to a situation of the type that I have described. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Devitt)  adjourned. 
I wish to ask 2 questions. I have found that some people are a little confused by the wording in the Act. In the proposed new section 6d and in other sections of the Act reference is made to a share. I would like the Minister to explain whether the expression also covers the plural - shares. Would it also apply if an individual were to buy shares in a number of companies and hold them for 18 months? Are the profits made on shares in a number of companies free of tax after they are held for 18 months? This dilemma has arisen because it is for the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation in each State to say whether a person is still liable under section 26 (a). Therefore I would be grateful to have a clear definition of the liability of share purchasers in those cases. 
My other question relates to the case of an individual who buys shares in the course of carrying on his business. Does this provision apply to an individual who sets up an investment company for the purpose of holding all the shares he buys for investment purposes? 
asked the Minister representing the 
Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the present international currency situation of vital importance to the Australian people; if so, what fields of Australian endeavour are most affected by it. 
Are press articles about floating of the yen and devaluation difficult for the average person to understand. 
Is the headline in "The Australian Financial Review' of 30th November 1971, stating that a currency crisis is near, a clear and comprehensible indication of the immediate situation; if so, will the Treasurer explain in equally plain language what the currency crisis is all about. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As the Prime Minister announced on 22nd December 1971, the Government has decided to maintain the existing gold parity of the Australian dollar and, at the same time, to set the market rate for the Australian dollar on the United States dollar close to the bottom of the permissible  2  per cent range about par. 
This decision followed an agreement reached by member countries of the Group of Ten to realign their exchange rates. A number of these countries, notably Japan and West Germany, revalued their currencies upwards against previous parities while others, including Britain, retained their previous parities against gold. The United States dollar has been effectively devalued by 7.89 per cent against its previous gold parity. Based on current market rates, the change in Australia's effective exchange rate against the rest of the world, calculated by averaging changes in the rates of our principal trading partners weighted by the value of our transactions in goods and services with them, has depreciated slightly from its position early in the current financial year. In these circumstances, it is not expected that the currency realignment will have a significant impact on Australia's overall balance of payments performance or on the domestic economy as a whole. The Government recognised that some industries might be adversely affected by its decision, but taking all factors into account it considered the interests of the nation as a whole at the time would best be served by the action it took. 
That would depend in part on the quality of the article in question. 
The headline in question referred to the possibility of a resolution of the international monetary situation in the then near future. Up to that time I had made several statements on the international monetary situation. In particular, I made a statement on 28th October 1971, which I believe was a reasonably clear account of this complex subject, and which was tabled in the Senate on 3rd November. 
In this period our immediate concern was that continuing uncertainty over the future exchange rates could have harmful effects on world trade and economic activity. The major currency realignment, involving a return to stable currency relationships, which followed the Group of Ten meeting in December 1971 has done a good deal to remove this threat. In particular. It has resulted in the cancellation of the United States import surcharge. The Government's decision on the exchange rate of the Australian dollar was announced by the Prime Minister in his statement on 22nd December 1971. In the longer term, the question of reform of the international monetary system will command our close attention. 
asked the Minister representing the Minis ter for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Does the Commonwealth make funds available throughout Australia for the preservation of historical buildings. 
What action does the Commonwealth take to ensure the preservation of historical buildings located in Commonwealth Territories. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. The Commonwealth provides a capital grant of $50,000 for distribution through the Australian Council of National Trusts on the basis of national priorities. The work of the National Trusts is also recognised by the allowance of income tax and estate duty concessions on gifts and bequests to the Trusts and by income tax concessions on donations made to appeals conducted by the Trusts. In addition, the Commonwealth provides an administrative grant of $5,000 for the Australian Council of National Trusts. 
This part of the question concerns the responsibilities of my colleagues the Minister for External Territories and the Minister for the Interior. I shall bring it to their attention. 
 Mr President,  I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare the following matter: 
Rehabilitation services for the disadvantaged (handicapped), including the total requirements necessary for the optimum provision of these services, particularly in the educational, medical, social and vocational aspects of rehabilitation, and having regard to: 
the overlapping and gaps in the existing services, 
the integration of rehabilitation services into compensation legislation, 
training and teaching staff (educational medical, social and vocational) in rehabilitation and rehabilitation techniques, and 
the need to recommend provision for total care of the disadvantaged, taking into account their return, where possible to (a) full employment, and (b) the home, and, where (a) and (b) are not achievable, to either sheltered employment or full nursing care. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate whether the 10,000-ton silo to be constructed for the State Wheat Board at Gladstone in Queensland will be gas-tight so that weavils and other pests in the grain can be eradicated by means of a gaseous fumigant or inert gas? If this silo is to be gas-tight will the specifications apply to all future wheat silos to be constructed in Australia? 
I move: 
That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare the following matter- Rehabilitation Services for the Disadvantaged (Handicapped), including the total requirements necessary for the optimum provision of these services, particularly in the educational, medical, social and vocational aspects of rehabilitation, and having regard to: 
the overlapping and gaps in the existing services; 
the integration of rehabilitation services into compensation legislation; 
training and teaching staff (educational, medical, social, and vocational) in rehabilitation and rehabilitation techniques; and 
the need to recommend provision for total care of the disadvantaged, taking into account their return, where possible, to (i) full employment, and (ii) the home, and, where (i) and (ii) are not achievable, to either sheltered employment or full nursing care. 
Much is being done already in certain aspects of rehabilitation services but there is no total unifying inquiry into all aspects. I think that it is important to say that modern rehabilitation methods lead to the restoration of the functioning of the individual to his or her highest potential. They involve medical, vocational, social and educational measures and should aim at returning the disabled person to a full and rewarding life in the work force and home environment. To be successful, rehabilitation treatment should begin at or soon after the onset of illness or disability and be carried through all phases without gaps, delays or interference. 
At least 4 Senate committee reports deal in part or in considerable detail with certain aspects of rehabilitation. The report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse deals with the difficulties of rehabilitating drug dependent persons and the inadequacy of facilities and competent professionally trained people to handle them. The report of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs mentioned the matter but refrained from positive recommendation other than to state that further investigation should be made owing to that Committee 's paucity of evidence on the subject. The report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on physically and mentally handicapped children tackled the subject of rehabilitation in considerable detail for this section of the population. The repatriation inquiry recently concluded, but not yet reported upon to the Senate, took a considerable amount of evidence especially concerning the need to place more emphasis on rehabilitation of returned exservicemen to augment the present compensation orientated scheme. 
This present scheme emphasises compensation. Therefore it tends to leave the individual with his disability and thus remain short of his highest potential for a full and rewarding life. With so much work done by Senate committees on various aspects of rehabilitation, I am recommending that the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare bring out a comprehensive report combining matters already touched upon as well as some not yet examined in detail. Some of these matters include the adequacy of rehabilitation units attached to or separated from community hospitals, the sufficiency or otherwise of professional personnel, training facilities existing or required in the various medical and paramedical fields, a team approach to rehabilitation assessment and treatment, compensationwhen it should be ascertained and on what medical and financial criteria- and the need for co-ordination between the many State and Federal departments that have a hand in rehabilitation and the many more voluntary and professional organisations working in this field to try to overcome overlapping, gaps and deficiencies. With evidence of those and no doubt other aspects of rehabilitation it will be of invaluable assistance to all concerned to have a complete report about and recommendations on all aspects of rehabilitation in this increasingly important field of modern treatment. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. On 28 August the Prime Minister announced that the Department of Urban and Regional Development had recommended the Galston sub-region as the site for Sydney's second airport and that it would not be acceptable to increase investment in Mascot in such a way as to make for more air movement there. On the same day the Minister for Civil Aviation stated that a second airport would definitely be located at Galston to meet Sydney's airport needs for the 1 980s. How does the Prime Minister explain the statement on 28 August by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, whose Department allegedly recommended the Galston site, that the committee investigating airport sites had agreed that the best solution was to expand Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport in order to meet the demands in the 1980s? Furthermore, how does the Prime Minister reconcile his subsequent statements that the siting of an airport at Galston is a very strong probability, later that it was overwhelmingly likely, and finally to the people of the area that they would get Galston? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to an answer that he gave to  Senator Laucke  yesterday concerning the abolition of the sales tax exemption on beverages which contain less than 5 per cent of fruit. By way of preface, I would like to quote one or two sentences from the Minister's answer. He said: 
It was made clear to me by the industry that it was on the current lemon crop that action had to be taken, and taken quickly. 
He went on to say: 
I appreciate .... that there will be problems with oranges later and with apple juice after that .... We have stated quite clearly that we will assist in the readjustment of the industry where that is necessary. 
Is the Minister aware that 100,000 tons of fruit has been adversely affected by this precipitate action and that 80 per cent of that fruit is concerned in the production of apple juice? Is he aware also that manufacturers of carbonated waters have huge stocks of apple juice on hand, which means that in the short term they will have great losses and in the long term it will be the apple industry, much more than the lemon industry, which will be adversely affected and probably will have growers put out of action? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that some Commonwealth Government employees such as some parliamentary secretaries, but by no means all of them, and all the Commonwealth car drivers and bus drivers are debarred by law from the security of being permanent public servants? Does he agree that this is unfair discrimination and would he undertake to have this situation rectified? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Yesterday I asked him a question concerning certain government employees and he said that my question was incorrectly based. I ask him: In what way was it incorrectly based? Are certain parliamentary secretaries not allowed to become permanent members of the Commonwealth Public Service? Also, are quite a number of Commonwealth car drivers and bus drivers not allowed to become permanent members of the Commonwealth Public Service? Is it a fact that the union which is concerned with these bus drivers has taken these employees out on strike on several occasions in order to have this anomaly and unfairness rectified? I ask the Minister again: Will he take steps to have this anomaly rectified? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement now been broken, and are permanent building societies now to be discriminated against and deprived of their grants. 
Is the Minister aware that in South Australia and also possibly in Tasmania there are no terminating building societies. 
Does this mean that the private sector of home owners in South Australia and Tasmania are to be discriminated against in comparison with those in the more favoured States, in that none of the grants made under the Agreement is to be made available for prospective home owners, except what little can be obtained from State Banks and then only after funds have been allocated to buyers of Housing Trust homes, and lengthy waiting periods. 
I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare relating to its inquiry on repatriation. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. By way of preface I remind the Minister that 2 or 3 weeks ago I asked him a question about locust plagues which I said were ravaging South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. I asked then whether there was anything more that either governments or individuals could do to prevent the spread of these plagues. I noted in this morning's Press a report that the locusts are now threatening in Queensland and that farmers are having to sit back and watch the devastation that is going on because of a shortage of insecticides which will be at its worst early next month. Would it be possible to import insecticides and to do some more spraying or anything else which can control these plagues? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to limit the control over Australia's most valuable resource, the national work force, by migrants who hold leading positions as union bosses and who are responsible for the preponderance of constant strikes which are ruining the economy of Australia and aggravating inflationary trends. 
Would this not be consistent with Government policy of opposing the operation of multi-national companies within Australia in assisting the development of our national resources, in the belief that it is undesirable and contrary to national interest. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and follows the question asked today by  Senator Gietzelt  and the Attorney-General's answer to it. Is it fair, with the law as it presently exists and which, as the Attorney-General states, the Federal Government has power to alter, to pick on insurance companies and say that they have a moral obligation to compensate recent flood victims in Queensland and New South Wales? Is it a fact that although people insure against storm and tempest, quite legally the small print goes on specifically to exclude flood damage? Will the Government move to eliminate all fine print from all documents, forms and contracts and compel companies to state clearly in uniform print the terms and conditions being set out? Will he undertake to ensure that any such laws relate also to airline tickets, contracts for land acquisition, superannuation forms, hire purchase or any other similar agreements? 
