This is a rather belated intervention in  a  debate that probably will conclude late this afternoon or early tonight. The matter which is before the Senate arises from one of the most significant presentations that at any time can be made to this Parliament. There are a number of significant presentations, one of which is the annual Budget. And another equally important one is a document of the character of the one we are now discussing, the Address delivered by  His Excellency,  the Governor-General, representing the Queen, lt sets out the Government's policy projected for the current and subsequent sessions of the Parliament. Such a document has always been regarded as being highly significant and important. On this occasion it has a particular significance and, for reasons which  1  shall detail later, is almost unique. 
The Parliament has always regarded the Governor-General's Speech in a particular light. When it was desired to make an assessment of it, and more particularly when it was desired to criticise it, the Opposition has taken the opportunity to do that in the most formal manner available under the forms of the Senate. The GovernorGeneral's Speech has always warranted such attention, and in very many cases the official Opposition has sought, by proposing a formal specific amendment, to detail its dissatisfaction or disagreement with the propositions contained in the Speech and embodied in the . document which is presented and circulated to the Senate. On this occasion the Australian Democratic Labor Party has accepted the traditional role and has set about presenting an amendment in the most formal terms to indicate the extent to which it disagrees with the propositions which were exhibited in the Governor-General's Speech. Normally that is a function which is entrusted to the official Opposition, because of its tactical situation. It has the first call. It has the first opportunity to express the official point of view of honourable senators who sit on the non-Government benches. Traditionally, the Opposition - the Australian Labor Party in more recent years - has presented such a disagreement in a formal manner. On this occasion the Democratic Labor Party presented the official disagreement in the formal amendment which we have moved, and there was a particularly good reason why this should be done. 
I have listened to many speeches from the Throne. I have heard speeches of various lengths - from very short speeches to speeches of medium length. I do not think I have ever listened to a speech which was so embracing in its propositions and so wide in its recitation of past performances and future projections as was the Speech delivered on this occasion. It must be accepted as a comprehensive summary by the Government of the totality of its programme. If that is so, we in this chamber were entitled to conclude that the Government had very little more to say, and that if a matter was not contained in that Speech it was being given no priority by the Government, it would get no attention by the Government, or it was being pushed aside by the Government. On this occasion there was a particular responsibility upon the Opposition to draw attention to the important matters which in its opinion should have been, but which were not, contained in the document. That is precisely the point of view of the Democratic Labor Parry. We intended to do that because we felt that that was our duty as honourable senators sitting as a party on this side of the chamber. 
We candidly did not expect that we would have an opportunity to propose the first amendment to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply, and for almost a fortnight it was the only amendment. We thought that surely the official Opposition would arrogate to itself its customary role of presenting its own proposition in a formal amendment. This was not done. Of course, it may be said now that there are certain general matters, which might emerge later in debate or argument, which it was not necessary to incorporate in any formal document. The approach of the Democratic Labor Party was not merely that we should present this formal dissent but, more than that, that we should express our dissent over a number of areas in specific terms. After all, we know that the mere dissent is not in any executive sense effective, that it does not affect the programme of the Government. But honourable senators will notice significantly that at least two propositions in the Democratic Labor Party's formal amendment have also found reference in specific notices of motion now resting on the business paper. 
The first one is in relation to the setting up of a joint parliamentary committee on Commonwealth-State relations, and the second one refers to the setting up of a royal commission into rural industries. We thought that those two matters in particular required immediate attention, that their necessity should be registered in our formal amendment of dissent. Those matters are now before the Senate. Let not the official Opposition for one moment try to pretend that those matters are unimportant. Why, only today in the Senate we found two of those matters to be the subject of specific intervention by members of the Opposition - during question time and in the giving of notices of motion.  Senator Brown  asked a question regarding employment in Victoria resulting from the depreciated and deteriorated condition of country towns following a deterioration in the level of activity in rural industries.  Senator Willesee  gave notice of the discussion of CommonwealthState relations as a matter of public importance. In other words, the Opposition now acknowledges the importance of two of the propositions which are in our motion of dissent. But it was only after the Democratic Labor Party had taken both those stands that the Opposition was stimulated to do anything of that kind. 
 I shall answer  Senator Mulvihill  who, as far as I can gather, led the debate for the Opposition. He did not give any attention to any of the issues which are now considered by the official Opposition, in the belated amendment which it has presented, to be great issues. 
 Yes, I agree that one or two matters were mentioned, but in the whole sweep of the debate, these questions have not been mentioned by honourable members on the Opposition side. What was the immediate reaction of the Opposition to  Senator McManus's  amendment when it was presented on behalf of our Party?  Senator Mulvihill  had spoken before the amendment was presented.  Senator Cavanagh  spoke after it was presented, and 1 shall quote from his speech. He opened his speech substantially by making an attack on our amendment. Later on I shall detail the attack which was made by  Senator Murphy  on our amendment and his approach to the whole debate. But  Senator Cavanagh  said: 
The Australian Labor Party does not oppose the adoption of the Address-in-Reply that is to be conveyed to the Governor-General but we do nol support the amendment of the Australian Democratic Labor Party which we consider to have been moved for political propaganda purposes rather than for any other purpose. 
I should like to assess the subsequent amendment in the light of that proposition. He continued: 
It is simply a matter of hypocrisy. 
I shall assess also the Opposition's amendment in the light of that concept.  Senator Cavanagh  continued: 
We can amend the Address-in-Reply to condemn the Government without achieving anything. While the Democratic Labor Party suggests that we condemn the Government because of this and that, it also has on the business paper proposals relating to the establishment of a royal commission or the setting up of Select Committees on most of those items. The Opposition will take a stand on those items when we are considering the appointment of such committees. The Opposition can see no value in simply condemning the Government for not introducing something such as a national insurance scheme without any suggestion as to what the scheme might be. Had the Government introduced such a scheme it might have been one that would be condemned by ihe Opposition. 
That was the first attack on our amendment and it was made by  Senator Cavanagh,  a not insignificant member of the Opposition - we acknowledge that. He saw no virtue in our proposition and he saw no reason for it. It was stimulated by hypocrisy; it was only a political gesture. He implied that that was the interpretation to be put on any such formal amendment which was presented by an Opposition to the AddressinReply in this place. 
After a lapse of some days another amendment appeared. Once our amendment was presented the Opposition found itself in real trouble. We had had a demonstration at that time of parliamentary incompetence elevated almost to the position of a profession. I have never witnessed such total parliamentary incompetence as 1 witnessed on this occasion from the official Opposition. It was an occasion when the official Opposition could, on a most comprehensive Government statement, have taken a strong stand to give a national lead. The official Opposition totally failed to do this and it was left to the Democratic Labor Party to step into the role. That is an exhibition of political incompetence. Even when the amendment was presented the immediate reaction by those who see no virtue in anything that comes from the DLP was to condemn not only the terms of the amendment but the fact of its existence and the concept of it altogether, lt was useless, worthless and hypocritical. 
Eight days passed, as  Senator Marriott  said last night. They were, I am sure, 8 soul searching and agonising days for members of the official Opposition because it was faced with an amendment every proposition of which was rational and reasonable. Do not accept my word that that was the type of proposition and the way it was to be construed. Let us compare the propositions we put up with what emerged after those 8 agonising days. Last night, after  speaker  had followed  speaker,  an amendment emerged from the official Opposition. The 5 propositions in our amendment are:  (0 an adequate statement on Australian Foreign Policy: 
a comprehensive programme to rehabilitate primary industry: 
a plan mutually acceptable to the Commonwealth and the States for the equitable distribution of national revenue: 
adequate measures to promote family life, particularly in the fields of child endowment, maternity allowances and education: and 
provision for a  contributory  National Insurance plan. 
Let us compare, at least in part, the amendment that finally came from the Opposition with our proposals. The Opposition's amendment includes: 
adequate defence equipment and industries; 
peace in Vietnam; 
an acceptable health scheme; 
a national superannuation scheme: 
equitable financial arrangements for carrying out the activities of the States and local government and semi-governmental authorities. 
Item (e) is not only a reproduction of what is in our amendment but is the substance of the notice of motion given by  Senator Willesee  today to investigate the whole matter of Commonwealth-State financial relations. 
That is right. The Opposition's amendment also includes: 
rehabilitation of primary industry and reimposition of the embargo on the export of merinos. 
We have a specific motion for investigation of primary industries by royal commission, apart from this being in the amendment to the Address-in-Reply which we have proposed. Wc find an exact reproduction in the Opposition's amendment. The last proposition in the official Opposition's amendment refers to burdens on families in a very off-hand manner. We have a specific proposition for adequate measures to promote family life, etc. 
The Opposition therefore cannot dismiss our proposition in toto, quite apart from its concept. Our amendment was said to be worthless or useless but every proposition in it appeared in almost identical terms in the official Opposition's own subsequent amendment. Therefore we would expect that at least pro tanto we would have the support of the official Opposition if our amendment gets to the Senate for decision, because every proposition in it is embodied in the official Opposition's amendment. lt is not unfair for us to expect that the official Opposition should give us at least to that extent the support which those propositions deserve, having been accepted by that Opposition. 
As I say, 8 days went by. lt is now public property what happened in the intervening period. In spite of the immediate reaction of  Senator Cavanagh  - speaking apparently at that stage for what was to emerge as the official Opposition point of view - if we are to believe the reports in the newspapers the Parliamentary Labor Party executive decided otherwise. Newspaper reports have 
Hn  uncanny knack of being true even though they deal with the very conclaves of the parties. The majority of the executive led by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and apparently supported by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  agreed that our propositions should be supported. That recommendation went to the Parliamentary Labor Party - again 1 am relying on newspaper reports - and the proposition was overwhelmingly rejected and a rebuff thereupon given to the executive. 
I do not know. I am not drawing any conclusions like that. J am merely reciting the facts as they are now public property. That left the ALP Opposition in this chamber in a very difficult position. It then had to set about doing what competence demanded it should have done days before and in a similar form to present its own proposition to the Senate. Why it was not done before I will never know. But as I say, it can only be construed as total political incompetency by the Opposition because the people look to the official Opposition more than to anyone else to register mass disapproval - if it is there - of Government policy, and it should be registered on every occasion and in the proper way and in the most formal manner. There are very few opportunities given to us like the one on this occasion of which advantage was not taken. Therefore the Opposition was faced with this dilemma of our acceptable proposition without an amendment of its own. 
Last night we saw this compendious amendment presented to the Senate. The extraordinary thing about the whole presentation was this. The official Opposition's function, I would imagine, is primarily to find fault with the Government. The amendment purports to find fault with the Government over many heads of disagreement but the attack launched by the Leader of the ALP as he presented this amendment was not on the Government at all. It was on the DLP for having the effrontery to present an amendment in terms every one of which was accepted finally in the Opposition's own amendment. This was an extraordinary situation and it obviously reflected the attitude of the Party, as stated by  Senator Cavanagh  here, that our proposition, because it came from the DLP, could not be supported. That obviously was the impetus that was responsible for the attitude of the Opposition in rejecting our amendment. It was not because of the terms which were acceptable to the Opposition and embodied in its own amendment. Because of the origin of our amendment under no circumstances could it be accepted. If that is the situation it is plumbing the very depths of parliamentary irresponsibility and it is a line of action that has never been taken by this Party and has always been disavowed. 
I will check my facts. I have here a list of many propositions which were presented by the ALP over many years and supported by the DLP and which, without such support, would not have been accepted. Let me mention some of them. I refer to the rejection of the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill at the instance of the ALP which was supported by this Party. That Bill was rejected twice. A motion was passed requiring the  President  at the request of a majority of the whole number of senators to reconvene the Senate in accordance with any such request. This was supported by the DLP. The Senate was reassembled in accordance with such a request and disallowed the postal regulations. That action was supported by the DLP. The Opposition took the Government to task on the VIP flight issue. This was a matter raised initially by the DLP and publicly exhibited. Even though the ALP raised the issue in the Senate it was supported by the DLP and as a result we had the VIP flight expose. Again, the DLP, not worrying about the source of the proposition but looking at the merits of it, supported the ALP. Another one was the preventing of the Chair from terminating question time at the request of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  and dissenting from the President's ruling in the matter. Again this was carried with the support of the DLP. The DLP moved amendments, which were opposed by the Government, to 8 Bills. The DLP proposals on 4 were finally agreed upon and passed into legislation. The DLP was responsible for the appointment of 3 new select committees and did all in its power to present proposals for 6 others. 
Now we come to the more recent examples of support given by the DLP on the merits of a question and irrespective of the source from which the proposal came. There was the appointment of the Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. That was a matter that we raised, but obviously the formal resolution came from the ALP. It was supported by the DLP and given effect. There was the rejection of the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill. That was a matter in which DLP support enabled the proposition to be rejected, the ALP having initially objected to the proposition. Then there was the siting of the new and permanent parliament house. There was the question of the merino ram export ban and the question of the tabling before the Public Accounts Committee of reports relating to the Fill aircraft. There was also the disallowance of Ordinances in the Australian Capital Territory. I could go on. 
We have never entertained that implacable dislike of the Australian Labor Party which would induce us to destroy one of its propositions merely because it came from that Party. But such an implacable dislike has the Labor Party for the DLP that whatever the merits of a proposition and however much it may be in the interests of the people, that proposition will be destroyed merely because it comes from our Party. That not only is plumbing the depths of political irresponsibility but also is a betrayal of the interests of the Australian people, particularly those whom the ALP purports to represent here. 
The present situation raises very interesting complications, all of which I do not wish to canvass. But let us look at the consequences of these extraordinary days and the incredible situation which we have witnessed, with a great deal of amusement and not without concern. We have seen the Democratic Labor Party elevated to the position of the official opposition in this chamber as the major, first, and formal critic of the Government. We have seen the Australian Labor Party elevate the Democratic Labor Party to a position where it and not the Government must attract the first and greatest attack. If, as we hear, the Liberal Party's political philosophy is coming closer to Australian Labor Party thinking, and vice versa, then we have seen examples of it in this debate. We have seen it displayed in relation to the industrial development corporation which the Labor Party accepts as being a conscionable part of its policy and which is eschewed by many conservative Liberals as being very close to Labor policy. J know that there has been some concern in the Australian Labor Party for years that it might become another Liberal Party - I have heard that expression used - and it could well be that members of the Liberal Party are afraid of becoming another Australian Labor Party. It is most significant that the only Party that obviously is preserving a separate political dignity is the Democratic Labor Party. 
Let us look at the consequences of the Labor Party's attitude. As a result of the Australian Labor Party's resolve to reject our proposition the Government has been given an immunity from assault, an immunity from criticism and an immunity from censure that it would not have had if the 
Australian Labor Party had followed the recommendations of senior members of its own executive. 
 Yes. If we were to support this resolution the Government would not come under censure on five major heads of Government policy, but because of its intense opposition to the DLP the Australian Labor Party is guaranteeing immunity to those whom it claims to oppose. It is not so much of concern to me and it may not be of much concern to honourable senators who are interjecting, but if I were a member of a responsible political party in this situation I would be seriously embarrassed by the public humiliation of my leader. That is precisely the position to which  Mr Whitlam  has been exposed. The Australian Press today is full of his personal humiliation on this issue at the hands of his own Party. That is the interpretation that is put on it by every organ of publicity in Australia. The worst feature of it is that it is based on the Australian Labor Party's refusal to accept anything that comes from the Democratic Labor Party. If this situation continues, as  Senator McManus  has said publicly, the Australian Labor Party in this chamber will find itself in an extraordinarily difficult position. If members of the Australian Labor Party allow their judgment to be so clouded by this aura of bitterness that they refuse to see what is best in the interests of the nation and the people they represent and, if their eyes are clouded by this miasma of hate for the Democratic Labor Party, they will continue to default in the trust that they owe to the people who put them here. Finally the people will call them to account and they will deserve to be called to account. Let us consider the individual attitudes of at least one honourable senator on this question. We can imagine that when the vote is taken the Australian Labor Party will vote for the elimination of the words that we seek to insert in the motion. What will  Senator Cavanagh  do? 
At least I will say for  Senator Brown  that his argument had a basis of logic. He did not think the amendment was warranted for reasons which 1 think put a strain on logic; but  Senator Cavanagh  was against it because, he said, it was a matter of hyprocrisy and because it would have no impact on the Government. An amendment has come in precisely the same terms and for precisely the same reason from the Opposition, of which he is a member. I ask  Senator Cavanagh  what he proposes to do. If it is hypocrisy on our part, it is hypocrisy on the part of the Australian Labor Party.  Senator Cavanagh  said that our motion was an empty gesture and would achieve nothing. But what would be the effect of the amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party? When the vole is taken, whatever the Party does - obviously it will vote against our amendment - I would expect  Senator Cavanagh  at least to support the proposition which he was so vocal in articulating in the course of his speech. 
This has been an extraordinary week. It is not often that we see an exhibition of parliamentary incompetence. It is not often that we see an Opposition walk out on the responsibilities which by law and by tradition belong to it. That is precisely what has happened in the most blatant form on this occasion. If the Democratic Labor Party has assumed a significant role on this occasion as it has on other occasions, it is not unexpected. It is now coming to be recognised that the issues which come before this Parliament receive the support or the dissent of this Party on their particular and individual merits. On that basis we will continue to approach all problems. I believe that that is the function of a Party such as ours. It is a function which in its discharge is receiving the approval of the Australian people and it will continue to receive it by the confirmation of the presence of our retiring senators in this place at the Senate election later this year. 
I raised with the Minister a small point about the parallel legislation in the municipal law of the contracting parties. That dealt with the law relating to an aircraft in flight. The Minister drew attention to the provision that requires the signatories to pass parallel legislation. I pointed out that the Convention does not apply to aircraft which are not in flight within the terms of the definition. The Minister said that it was considered appropriate to leave that matter to the local or municipal law. What is the situation when the municipal law does not cover that matter adequately? The signatories are required to pass parallel legislation in relation to aircraft in flight. Would it not have been prudent to require provision to be made for aircraft on the ground and not only those in flight within the terms of the definition? Would it not have been prudent to require the signatories to pass legislation to provide for such a situation in the municipal law of the signatory countries? Again I think there has been an omission. There may be a good reason for it. 
As  Senator Devitt  said initially, this is not the type of legislation which provokes great heat and ferment yet it is the type of legislation which has a number of important and significant aspects, not the least of which is that it indicates further international participation in a matter of common interest. As the world advances we are finding increasingly the development of international conventions, whether they relate to the safely of aircraft, the passage of aircraft, communications or pollution of the environment. To my mind these things are an indication of an increasing acceptance and maturity among countries in sharing in the solution of one another's problems. 
As was stated by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in his second reading speech, we already have legislation dealing with flights of international aircraft emanating from Australia or terminating in Australia, and the passage of aircraft interstate as against intrastate. Our own laws apply to them. The object of this legislation is to assent to the Tokyo Convention which will apply the municipal criminal law - the flag law - to aircraft on international flights. The accent particularly imposed by  Senator Devitt  and  Senator Sim  has been on the more modern manifestation of the threat to aircraft by hijacking, but of course that is not the only threat to aircraft. You get a threat to the safety of an aircraft and its complement by people who perhaps are temporarily irrational or by people who, though not irrational, are intent upon vendettas of private resort and seek an aircraft for some other nefarious purpose such as to obtain insurance benefits. Therefore the law which is applied is the penal law. This is evident from Article 1 of Chapter 1 which deals with the scope of the Convention. It provides: 
This Convention shall apply in respect of: (a) offences against penal law . . . 
I take it that that is the penal law according to the flag law of the aircraft. The penal law, therefore, would have a much wider implication than merely an offence which would come within the category of hijacking and the stealing or diversion of an aircraft. We have had instances in Australia of that kind of interference with aircraft for some purpose other than hijacking. Australia has had no instances of hijacking. We are not, at this stage anyhow, in that vulnerable area of the world where hijacking is likely but one never knows, as international differences spread over the world, whether we may not come into one of those vulnerable areas. There was a time when Cuba was the centre of this kind of aircraft diversion under threat. More recently the development has been in the Middle East having regard to the IsraelEgypt conflict, and it is not improbable that in other circumstances it could become manifest in this part of the world. Therefore the early accession to this treaty may have ultimately very important consequences for Australia. 
As I read the Bill and in accordance with the Minister's second reading speech, we have to realise that we abandon to some extent authorities and powers that we have already under the Act described as the Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963. In his speech the Minister said: 
If Australia becomes a party to the Convention, the provisions of the Crimes (Aircraft) Act in relation to Australian aircraft are not affected. The application of the Act will, however, be modified to the extent that the Commonwealth will not be entitled to interfere with a foreign aircraft in flight in order to exercise its criminal jurisdiction . . . 
In other words whatever was the authority before, we have qualified it to the extent that that Act will not now apply but the provisions of the Convention will apply. I do not know whether in the ultimate there is any substantial difference in the consequences though it is not improbable that the penal law which applies to situations like this might vary from state to state. There may well be something which is an offence under the penal law of most states which may not be an offence under the penal law of one of the contracting states. 
I do not know whether any signatory to the treaty has had to satisfy the other signatories or prospective signatories that its municipal law, that is its penal law of the flag, does provide suitable sanctions and suitable disciplines in consonance with the sanctions and disciplines which are embodied in the municipal or penal law of the other flag states. I take it that this is so but I would be interested to know whether it is so. Otherwise there would be a very great gap. There could be a signatory state which did not have appropriate penal law which could be violated in the circumstance. It could be, say, a question of insanity which might prove to be a violation of the penal law of one state and not of another. One can imagine, for example, a person who is certified as insane being under escort in an aircraft. Different situations might apply if he got free and started to threaten the aircraft. This could come within the terms of the penal law of one flag but not of another. However I take it that all signatories have been satisfied that there is available ancillary parallel legislation which will make the application of the treaty universal and uniform. 
There are other provisions. One which intrigues me is contained in Article 1 of Chapter 1. It governs what we might call an aircraft in flight. Obviously this Convention does not apply to an aircraft on the ground before the motors have been started or to an aircraft at the end of the runway after the run onto the runway has terminated. Whether in these circumstances our existing law applies when a bomb is exploded, for example, or something threatens an aircraft just before the motors start to rev or at the end of the runway before the aircraft has come to a halt, 1 do not know. But there is some significance in the fact that that type of situation is expressly excluded under clause 2 of Article 1 . That clause reads: 
Except as provided in Chapter III-  1 have not given great attention to Chapter III-   . . this Convention shall apply in respect of offences committed for acts done by a person on board any aircraft registered in a Contracting State, while that aircraft is in flight or on the surface of the high seas or of any other area outside the territory of any State. 
So it does not apply to any aircraft other than an aircraft in flight. Clause 3 states: 
For the purposes of this Convention, an aircraft is considered to be in flight from the moment when power is applied for the purpose of take-off until the moment when the landing run ends. 
I should like the Minister, having the opportunity to reply, to be kind enough to indicate what is the position in those circumstances and what is the applicable law. I make these general observations on a statute which, I say quite candidly, probably requires and warrants much greater study. But obviously it received very considerable study before a convention of such dimensions and which find such recognition and acceptance by so many states, not the least being Australia, was formulated. So, I take it as being adequately studied. 
For Australia or for any signatory, this could be a most important development. We can expect aircraft to develop and become a universal mode of travel to a degree almost unheard of today. It will be very difficult to police this Convention and to police adequately safety precautions in relation to aircraft. But the important point is that there shall be total reciprocity between nations and that there shall be a common universal code which will be acceptable and will be known and notified to all nations. We hope, of course, that this will become a universal convention and not merely a convention limited to the present signatories. 
We commend the Government for its participation in the deliberations which have culminated in this Convention and in the ratification of the document of accession as now before the Parliament. We trust that where necessary the Government will not be remiss in taking initiatives in the future to strengthen any safety precautions where experience demonstrates that they may require strengthening or to plug any legal gaps that may be opened as a result of the legal ingenuity which no doubt will be employed by those who would seek to avoid the provisions of this Act. 
 It reads: 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 4 and except when the safety of the aircraft or of persons or property on board so requires, no provision of this Convention shall be interpreted as authorising or requiring any action in respect of offences against penal laws of a political nature or those based on racial or religious discrimination. 
I take it that it means that, if a person was on an aircraft and was attempting to flee a country for political considerations and that was a breach of the penal law but not of the penal law that provided for the safety of aircraft, it would not be within the powers of the commander to operate the powers conferred under this Convention and to handle such a person merely to obtain compliance with or submission to the penal law not being the penal law affecting the safety of the aircraft or the vulnerability of the security of the passengers. Off hand, I imagine that that would be the interpretation. With those words, the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
No: I think it constitutes an offence. The question that I come to is: What are the consequences of such an offence? I believe that the escape of oil constitutes an offence. If the ship is in peril and is not removed, that contemplates a threat which may attract the provisions of the legislation. Then proposed section 329g sets out the consequential penalties. There is an initial penalty of $2,000. That proposed section is in these terms:  329o. -  (1.)  A person who fails to comply with a notice served on him under the lust preceding section is guilty of an offence against this Hart punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding Two thousand dollars and, in re -peel of each day on which oil escapes from the ship to which the notice relates by reason of his not having so complied or escapes to a greater extent than it would have escaped if he hud complied with l lie notice, an additional line nol exceeding Two thousand dollars. 
Conditions precedent to the imposition of the daily penalty will be that a notice has been given and that oil is escaping from the ship. Yet obviously another position is contemplated in the statute - that the ship is in jeopardy and no oil is escaping but there is a possibility of pollution in the event of a cyclone or something of that nature. That situation does not attract the daily penally, lt is attracted only when oil is actually escaping, if it were not leaking oil, 1 do not know what the position would be. If the notice had been served and not complied with there would be an initial fine of $2,000 for non-compliance, but there would be no daily penalty from that time on because oil was not actually leaking. 
That is it exactly. But the number 1 condition precedent is that oil must be leaking. So in those circumstances it would appear that the master of a vessel, having received an order and assessed the balance of advantages could fail to comply. He could take a chance on salvage or other circumstances and just go on until the Government stepped in under the other powers of the legislation and took remedial steps to remove the danger or to discharge the oil. 1 suggest that in that respect the provisions of the Bill could be rather weak. That indicates the necessity for the further consideration that in my view should be given to this legislation. 
It is obvious that if the Bill were further examined, time permitting, quite real circumstances could be discovered in which there would be weaknesses not covered by the proposed legislation. My friends of the Opposition laid emphasis on an attack on the measure as a threat to the rights of individuals. I prefer to point to the weaknesses of the Bill as a disciplinary measure. That is another reason why 1 feel that prudence dictates that this Bill in the circumstances of emergency should be given operation, but should be given a limited life. 
I understand that an assurance has been given in another place that the Government is prepared to allow the legislation to operate with the right of a private member to bring back proposed amendments. But if the Government feels that this amendment is warranted, the measure should have only limited life. I have no doubt that an examination of the operations of the statute in the intervening period would prove most fruitful in the final drafting of a statute in the light of the investigations and recommendations of select committees, ft could be a permanent legislative record, able to be relied on with confidence in the unfortunate circumstances which we hope will not occur but cannot be dismissed from our contemplation. For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party proposes to support the amendment. 
There still seems to be some doubt about the interpretation of proposed section 329g and the incidence of the penalty de die in diem of $2,000. The whole condition rests on the presence of oil in a vulnerable condition in the subject area. That seems to be the condition precedent. As  Senator Greenwood  pointed out, the notice can be given requiring any one or any conjunction of 3 things to be done by the owner or master of the vessel: To remove the oil, to remove the ship, or to prevent the leakage. If the vessel is removed the position then completely changes and there is no possibility of a leakage of oil. If the oil is not removed but remains in the vulnerable area there is still a possibility of leakage. If the oil is plugged there is still a possibility of a resumption of the leakage. In those circumstances the whole area of vulnerability still exists and one can understand an owner having a ship in that condition, which is holed on a reef and is liable to cyclonic interruption and possible destruction, and faced with the possibility of employing a salvage vessel and having to pay salvage, saying: 'Well, I refuse to obey the notice and I will wait until a vessel from my own line comes along.' At that stage there is a tremendous vulnerability and the only penalty to which a master or an owner is liable is the initial penalty of $2,000 providing there is no actual oil leakage from the ship. 
 I do not see why, when a notice is resisted and the order is not obeyed, the penalty de die in diem should not immediately attach, at $2,000 for every day on which default is made in not complying with the notice, or perhaps an initial penalty and a lesser penalty per day until notice is complied with. I see no practical reason why that should not be done. It would be very easy to draft and it is something that would really require compliance by the master or the owner under a not inadequate penalty. I do not know how correct this is but it is my understanding that the weather map shows cyclonic disturbances in this region at this time and a cyclonic disturbance now approaching this area. If that is true the situation that has been discussed here becomes very clearly etched out, and nothing can be done in this case, no notice having been given because there is no authority. We must recall that this part of the world is an area subject to cyclonic disturbance and the delay in moving a vessel or taking off oil is one that is particularly dangerous in the tropical areas of the Great Barrier Reef. In those circumstances I felt disposed to offer a precise amendment to that provision but in view of the necessity of getting the legislation through I restrained myself only because of the Government's undertaking that the legislation would have a limited life and these things may be canvassed at the proper time and with the leisure which should accompany the consideration of a Bill of such moment. However, I would like to hear the Minister comment further on this particular matter. 
by leave - Unfortunately this matter arises in the Senate in a week in which there has been somewhat of an arrangement as to the business that should proceed today because of the pressures of time and the visit by honourable senators to the GovernorGeneral. It is unfortunate in the circumstances that a debate of this character does intrude. It would probably be even more unfortunate if the debate on the substance of the motion for disallowance were to proceed in an atmosphere of haste and hurry. I think it would be better for it to be done with consideration because it does raise broad issues. 
Yes, I know that. I have discussed this motion with  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Wood.  There has been no suggestion that it now go on. The Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson),  in referring to what has been the practice, drew my mind back some years. I had anticipated discussion of action taken years ago by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee strangely enough in relation to a regulation concerning one of the Service departments. The Committee, on which I happened to serve, in its tenth report recommended the disallowance of a regulation which purported to govern the recovery by the Commonwealth of damages caused by servicemen to civilian property in the course of operations.  Senator Wright  was also on that Committee. The report purported to provide that that recovery should take place by regulation under certain procedures of the Air Force without judicial determination of liability and things of that character. The Committee moved that the regulation be disallowed. 
I have the report of that Committee here. I checked, and from recollection I think that that regulation was. in fact, disallowed. I do not know whether the Government on that occasion undertook to take alternative action or merely allowed the matter to go to the decision of the Senate. I merely wish to show that it has not always been the practice that when a motion for disallowance is brought forward the Government immediately reacts to it and the motion for disallowance does not proceed. 
That is right. That is what the Government may have done on that occasion. But where the Government decides to take remedial action perhaps that has been done. I remember that on one occasion I brought in a motion for disallowance of a regulation governing the transmission of telegrams where it was provided that there be a recharge on further transmission. The Postmaster-General of the day indicated to me that if I did not proceed with my motion he would have the regulation looked at. To my recollection that was done and I did not proceed with the motion. That is certainly an instance. My motion did not go to the question of transgression of the rights of the statutes or anything like that. It merely went to the merits of the situation. That was an occasion where the Government did intervene and undertake to retrieve the matter. But I am concerned in this case, because strangely enough the regulation which was disallowed and referred to in the tenth report also concerned a Service department just as this motion concerns three Service departments. 
 I had a quick check with the  Clerk  of the Committee and, from recollection, he thinks that the regulation was disallowed. 
That may be right. I am not sure. I did nol want to mention  Mr Nicholls,  the  Clerk  of the Committee, because his was only a hurried recollection and perhaps he may be incorrect. 1 do not recall it myself. 1 am concerned that the regulation in the tenth report and the regulation now before us both concern Service departments in a very important area and that is on the voting of public moneys. 1 think in this case in view of the history of the regulation and as it embraces that former incident the Senate should proceed to a formal discussion of the propriety of this regulation. 1 can understand the attitude of the Government, and it is a commendable attitude. Nevertheless, there is a lot to be said for the Senate pursuing this line to formally disallow the regulation. After all, the Senate itself is very circumscribed in time because the regulation must be tabled within a certain time. This shows the importance which is attached to the presentation of the regulation for discussion by the Senate. As has been said, the regulation may continue and the Senate should proceed to the disallowance or the consideration of that as early as possible. However, in the circumstances of this case I would agree with  Senator Anderson, Senator Murphy  and  Senator Wood,  that consideration should be postponed. The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports that proposal. 
The motion before the Senate contemplates the desirability and feasibility of establishing a securities and exchange commission. Obviously it has been prompted by exhibitions of national concern following recent industrial developments in Australia. I, with  Senator Wright,  do not point to any particular stimulus to this concern, but we must accept as a fact that concern has been expressed in the interest manifested by the motion and in the more specific action taken in a number of States to control dealings on the stock exchange. If the motion were only to deal with a situation to be considered in isolation as some sort of sudden and unexpected emanation which was unlikely to recur, grave doubts might arise as to whether the action proposed should be pursued. Therefore I think it may be profitable at least to try to estimate the climate in which recent situations have developed and to try to predict whether there will be a continuing situation of this character, a continuing climate in which we might expect a repetition of various incidents which make the introduction of necessary controls at this stage and for the future condign and desirable. 
Australia is entering a field of rapid national development. In recent years we have seen quite a dramatic change from a society which was substantially based on a rural economy to a society based on a highly industrialised economy, with all the consequences that flow from that type of organisation. We have witnessed the increased utilisation and diversion of private and public resources into the field of investment in joint stock companies with the advantages that that type of investment gives in the limitation of the raising of capital and the provision of such private capital for the purpose of development. Because of this intensification of public interest and individual interest in investment in joint stock companies we have seen a number of consequences. We have seen, first, a proliferation in the flotation of public companies for one purpose or another. At this stage I am not dealing with mining companies; I am dealing with the flotation of public companies for industrial purposes generally. 
Very often that has been accompanied by certain inexpertise in control, perhaps without that high degree of skill in management - particularly accounts and commercial management - that is desirable in respect of an expansion of our commercial activities. With that have come opportunities for manipulation within companies and opportunities for mismanagement. In addition to that we have had in this community, clue to our type of banking and financial structure - that is. the proliferation of hire purchase companies outside the banking system and the absence of any constitutional control to any major degree - companies able to offer high rates of interest which have attracted the investing public with consequences which in some cases have been disastrous. All these things are manifestations of the new type of Australia which we see today. 
Coupled with these things is a new type of society which is developing. We are really proceeding through a period which was peculiar to the United States prior to the commencement of the 20th century, when it had a series of bank crashes, with disastrous results, and it found it necessary to take on substantial power to control their banking institutions. In addition to that there were grave disturbances through scandals such as were mentioned by  Senator Murphy  in the South Sea Bubble. The effect of all that in the control through various organs in Australia has been seen in the tightening of the legislation in relation to company structure, company management and company control accounts. 
 That may be so, but at this stage I am dealing with the various stages through which Australia has come up to the present stage. We have seen a manifestation of interest recently by the States in the tightening of company controls. Primarily they deal with malpractices within a company but which are reflected outside the company. That was control directed in a particular field and to that extent it has been effective. It is one instance of the States co-operating, one with the other, within the power constitutionally available to them, to control this area which is subject to commercial maladministration and to types of commercial deceit. The legislation in the States has been directed against malpractice by company officers, the improper release of correct information or the release of incorrect information, and against officers giving out information from which their friends might benefit. In one way or another, and one after the other, all these reports have attempted to plug gaps which were becoming manifest. 
 Yes, there were many things. I have taken just a few of them. Mainly the State legislation goes lo the control of a company and the operation of that company in relation to the public at large but not very much beyond that point. When the United States passed through that first period from the end of the 19th century into the 20th century and struck the great depression in the early part of the 20th century, there began this intense interest of the investing public in investing equity capital in public companies. The boom of that investment culminated in 1929 in the collapse of the stock exchange and the tremendous consequences which flowed, not only to individuals and the nation of the United States but also throughout the world. It was as a consequence of that, no doubt - -because significantly it happened in 1933 and 1934 - that the United States introduced the legislation to which  Senator Wright  has referred. That was to handle this new type of situation with all this investing in public companies on the stock exchange through equity capital. Australia is now reaching that second position, lt is reaching in 1970 the situation that the United States reached in 1900 when there was this tremendous equity investment by the general public. That has been stimulated in Australia in the field of mining investment. 
Let us look at the Australia which is faced with this new position. First, we have a country which is developing extraordinarily rapidly. All sorts of new natural resources are being opened in every field of natural resources and that situation is operating in a most affluent society. Consequently, individuals in this country now find surpluses of capital which are available to them for investment. Thank heavens in many cases the days have gone when people had no surplus which they could put into anything, bar a few pounds in the savings bank. People find themselves with some spare capital which they can commit to a commercial investment. Thirdly, just when these two factors are operating, we find that the field for investment which is becoming available is the most seductive field of all - that of mining speculation. That is the third factor which is influencing the climate in which we are giving thought to the motion before us. Then there is the continued incidence of high taxation in certain fields of personal exertion which is driving people to try to make money which may legitimately escape the attention of the Commissioner of Taxation. 
When we add all those components together we find developing this situation which is now causing us concern. The question is: Is that likely to continue? If it is likely to continue, appropriate action at this stage is not only timely but also absolutely necessary. There is one further factor in this affluent society, or quasiaffluent society, where we have this mining speculation and the mining enterprises which are available to the investing public. In many cases now the investor is no longer sophisticated and knowledgeable. Many investors now have little or no previous experience of investment on the stock exchange, little or no experience with commercial enterprises and, as it were, they are caught up in the excitement of the moment. They commit their jealously husbanded few dollars of surplus capital to some enterprise which might bring them a return. In these circumstances the stage is set for a situation such as we are concerned about tonight. With all these factors we have an unsophisticated investing public; enterprises which can be laid before them for quick returns and substantial profits; and the incentive to avoid taxation. All these things provide a reason why they should come into this field. Australia is particularly vulnerable today to situations which we would hope to be avoiding and which, without particularising any instance, are causing the nation concern. 
 I know that I have seen references to that in some of the digests on this subject. I suppose we cannot protect against himself the greedy person who carelessly goes in merely to make a quick dollar, and in certain circumstances it is doubtful how far we should go. But, after all, controls are exercised in other fields where the same argument might be presented. Let us take a very mundane example. Let us consider racing speculation. People go to the races and hope to win a few more dollars, but racing is subject to strict controls in the interest of the punting investor. There are stewards and committees to see that horses run on their merits, that they are fit to run, that there is no rigging of the betting market and all those things. In other words one does not just say to them: 'If you want to make money you try at your own risk.' A person is protected against improper practices. 
 A person can take that. After all, there is no examination of experts. If a racing forecaster consistently gives out losers it will be very awkward for hiin. He does his best to give out winners. That is the obligation he has to his newspaper and to the racing game. There are occasions where society does step in. Today there are government boards which now control certain aspects of racing. These are not any longer left to the voluntary attention of committees which act in an honorary capacity, but are the responsibility of government boards, particularly in trotting and pacing in which government appointees control the whole conduct of the activity. 
 That is probably true. There was a time when if you wanted to invest in a mining company what you would be afraid of would be the deceit of, say, salting the mine. But there is another type of salting today which can be more dangerous. That is what I call psychological salting. That is perhaps what we are directing our minds to in the course of this debate - whether or not it is possible to build up a psychology of hope due to the manipulation on the stock exchange which might attract people without warrant and unjustifiably to commit their money when someone has done it for improper purposes. We have a community and we have a situation which are particularly subject to that type of practice, because we have the unsophisticated investor with a little money and with the incentive to try to make a little more free of taxation, and we have investments which will sell on their appearance to him, and he is very vulnerable. 
I cannot conceive that society has a total obligation to save every person who may be greedy or ambitious against himself, but it certainly has an obligation to lay down certain fundamental safeguards. He is entitled in that type of situation to such protection as the law can give him against malpractice, dishonesty and deceit. At least he is entitled to that. In this completely new situation in which we have a new commercial life emerging, with new people commercially interested as investors on the stock exchange, the question arises: Are we frying to control a new situation with the old techniques? It is as simple as that. 
In other words, are the old forms adequate to control a situation which sometimes can become hysterical? As it is possible that all the components mentioned are not going to disappear, the only change that can take place possibly will be a growing sophistication in the investing public. Apart from that, the whole pattern will continue, and in that case there seems to be every warrant for some sort of control or at least investigation at this stage. We do not know what that type of control should be.  Senator Wright,  I think very properly, did not speculate to any extent on what form the control should take, because to some extent that would depend on the iti muli which make it necessary. He said that he does not want to canvass that in particular cases. Nor do I. Nevertheless, there is an obligation on us to investigate the feasibility and desirability of control. This is the substantial purport of the motion before the Senate. I wonder, therefore, whether with control of the stock exchange in the hands in which it is - however honourably and however enthusiastically control is exercised by those who bring their best efforts to hear - the situation is beyond such type of control. That would be a type of matter which an investigating body such as this motion suggests would no doubt find within its province and its responsibility to investigate. 
Deceit of the public in any circumstances in the investment of its capital has not only a personal consequence; it also has a social, community and national consequence, because in a country such as ours the mobilisation of investment capital and its direction and orientation to the best purpose is vital for a country in our stage of development. But as has been said, if we deter the investing public from investing their surplus capital in worthwhile enterprises or make them frightened to put their money into anything other than fixed securities or perhaps savings banks we will certainly deny to this country opportunities for investment that should exist and should exist legitimately. After all, it is a legitimate incentive for people to make a few more dollars by putting their money at some risk in mining companies or industrial companies or commercial enterprises. That is justifiable and desirable within our commercial system. But if we are to allow situations to develop that will create a psychology of resistance to that and nobody is going to move that will be a tremendous deprivation and denial of opportunity to this country. 
We should, however, in relation to this matter express some caution, lt has been a Held in which suddenly there has come upon us this situation. Apart from the legislation in the States, to which I referred earlier, the legislation in relation to the control of stock exchanges has been a matter of only recent concern and recent action. This is rather parallel to the situation in relation to the control of the environment where we see the States expressly legislating within the competence of State laws in these fields. The Commonwealth has to be careful - whether one is a centralist or not - when the States have manifested this interest and this enthusiasm and have moved quickly, not to attempt to intrude, as it were, to take power and override that enthusiasm and to dampen it down and make total substitution for what the States have endeavoured to do and have already embarked upon doing. Therefore I suggest that we should seek - no doubt we should expect and no doubt we shall receive - the closest co-operation from all of the 
States and more particularly those States that are already legislating in this field, as to whether there can be a combination of State and Commonwealth law which will enable some type of control more effective than what we have at present to be introduced and to effect the purpose which we have in mind. Only as a last resort should the Commonwealth attempt to lay aside the manifest and expressed enthusiasm of the States in what they have already done and attempted in this field. It should not arrogantly step over those activities and supplant them with some sort of national commission or national exchange and securities board. 
Another aspect is that if we attempt to do that we will possibly cause delay in  a  circumstance in which delay would not be desirable. If a Senate select committee goes in and picks up, as it were, by consultation and by evidence, the contributions that States have made and works out quickly a formula for joint action, that will be the most effective thing that could be done. If it is not the best thing that could be done, ultimately  it  will be the best and most effective thing that could be done in the circumstances at the time. 
 1  would imagine that there would be some differences but substantially, I would say, the character of the problems probably would be the same. The intensity and depth of them may differ from State to State, more particularly so in the States which are bigger and stronger commercially, financially and industrially. But there is no reason why we should not get complementary and identical legislation. 
That may be so. It may be possible. It is very seldom that we get a totality  of  coincidence of legislation even though ali States attempt to do it. But I would say  at  this stage that the intervention of the Commonwealth through this action might very well draw together and persuade the States to have identical legislation even though some States may think that some provisions are unnecessary in their context and others may think that the provisions do not go far enough in their context. I think this is a time when both the States and the Commonwealth should welcome the closest possible co-operation. We should be delighted that the States have seen fit to move. We must be conscious of their expressed concern. We must certainly not allow ourselves to put that aside and think that the States have been supine and inactive in the matter. 
Realising that the contemplated investigation by the committee will be only into the desirability and feasibility of doing certain things relating to the control of share dealings and that the words 'feasibility' and desirability' no doubt bear a connotation which contemplates constitutional ability, political opportunity and desirability in the sense of co-ordination of authorities, the Democratic Labor Party is of the opinion that at this stage such a committee is appropriate. Its terms of reference would be sufficient to ensure a discovery of all those facts which it is necessary to know if the States and the Commonwealth are to introduce a body of legislation which would be appropriate not only to the present situation but also to a situation which, against the background that I have attempted to describe, will be with us permanently. This is the time to move. We must move prudently and with due solicitude to the States because of the situation in which we find ourselves. The Democratic Labor Party supports the motion. 
by leave - Any matter concerning the functioning of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is a matter of particular interest to the 
Senate and of considerable interest to me as one who had the pleasure of being associated with the Committee for some years. The function of the Committee is to consider matters which should properly be within the legislative preserve and by some process fall into the regulatory ambit. The Committee is very conscious of and very sensitive of trespassing outside the proper bounds of regulatory action. The matters that can come within. the ambit of regulations and within the scrutiny of the Committee can be matters such as the one which is embodied in this regulation that may impose a charge on the revenue. The authorisation of payments or the imposition of charges is a proper matter for legislation. Of course there are matters that can fall outside that. For example, there was the matter that came before the Committee years ago relating to the responsibility of members of the armed Services for damage caused by them to civilian property in the course of their duties. That imposes no immediate obligation on the revenue, and therefore it the regulation was wrongly imposed and should have been the subject of legislative action there is then no immediate charge on the revenue improperly imposed. 
This regulation is in a different category. It has the effect of imposing a charge on the revenue. When the regulation was scrutinised by the Committee, the Committee found that this was within perhaps the top area of its sensitivity, and therefore after investigation it brought in this motion to the Senate for disallowance of the regulation. 
Exactly. Business of the Senate takes precedence in certain circumstances. I read the following from  Mr Odgers'  thesis: 
The following Business is placed on the Notice Paper as 'Business of the Senate' and takes precedence of Government and General Business for the day on which it is set down for consideration: 
A motion for leave of absence of  a  Senator- 
One can see why that should be a matter of some urgency - 
A motion touching the qualification of  a  Senator- 
A matter of obvious urgency - 
A motion for the disallowance of a Regulation or Ordinance. . . . 
An Order of the Day for the presentation of a Report from a Select Committee. 
In other words, a report from the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, like any motion for disallowance even in private hands, is considered to be a matter of prime importance to the Senate. For the reasons I have indicated one can see why that should be so. If that is the case, as soon as the Committee comes to its conclusions and presents its report - and perhaps even before the motion for disallowance is tabled - and that comes to the knowledge of the Executive Government, if it is quite probable that the conclusions of the Committee have validity the Government should be particularly scrupulous to move quickly. 
Whilst I do not agree with  Senator Murphy's  attitude for reasons I will indicate, I believe that the Government, on the face of it, has not moved with the promptitude that this situation demanded. This regulation should not have been allowed to operate once the Government was aware that it was under challenge, and probably correctly under challenge. The Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  assures us that legislation has been introduced. That seems to confirm the opinion of the Committee. Those facts, if known to the Government, should have stimulated prompt and early Government action. This situation would not have arisen if the Government had responded in the time that was available to it. The Minister mentioned in a general sense the Intervention of a general election. I recognise all those things. But obviously a matter of this sensitivity should and could have been handled earlier than this. 
The Committee has always operated in relation to the Senate with a great deal of common sense. I can remember two particular cases. In one I introduced a personal motion for disallowance of a regulation in relation to increases in telegraph retransmission charges. On the day that motion was to come up for discussion in the Senate the Postmaster-General of the day asked whether he could meet with me and he undertook to amend the regulation, if my recollection is correct. There was the Executive Government meeting the situation and meeting it in time, because in that case there was no charge on the revenue. The second case concerned Air Force regulations. When the regulation came up for discussion and disallowance it was withdrawn. The Executive Government therefore met the acknowledged views of the Committee, as demonstrated by its report and the tabling of the motion for disallowance in the second case and by my personal motion in the first case. 
I believe that once the Government has responded to the views of the Committee, as apparently it has in this case, belated as it may be, it is not proper or prudent for the Senate to pursue the discussion of this regulation, just as I believe it would not have been prudent to have had discussion on my motion for disallowance in the circumstances in which the Minister said: I will withdraw the regulation*. It would be purely an academic exercise. It is most unfortunate that the Senate finds itself in this position and that the Government, so belatedly and rather hesitantly, has moved now to accommodate the views of the Committee. With respect to  Senator Murphy  - and I admire his solicitude for the position of the Senate in relation to this and similar matters - I do not believe that any purpose is to be served. We now having received from the Leader of the Government an assurance that the Bill which is to be introduced or has been introduced in another place purports to cover the matters that are of such concern to the Committee, I cannot believe that this matter can be pursued by discussion of a motion for disallowance with any great benefit. 

 Senator Murphy says that the disallowance of the regulation would not have retrospective effect. Of course, that is correct. That is all the more reason why the Government should be sensitive in situations such as this. If this discussion produces no other benefit, at least in future it will put the Government on the alert that this position can develop and that, when a report from the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is presented and even before a motion for disallowance is tabled, if the Committee indicates its dissatisfaction the matter should receive immediate Government scrutiny and, if the expert technical advice tendered to the Government is that legislative action is warranted, that action should be taken promptly. 
Therefore, I cannot support  Senator Murphy's  attitude in this matter. I support  Senator Greenwood's  motion. I believe that there should be a postponement of the discussion on this regulation pending the introduction of the legislation and the scrutiny of it by the Committee. If the Committee finds that there is still a lacuna and that the legislation does not cover all the matters that met with its disapproval, the Committee can bring in a further report and the regulations pro tanto can still be discussed and disallowed to the extent to which the Committee still disapproves of those things which are not the subject of the legislation. For those reasons I support  Senator Greenwood's  motion and find myself out of consonance with the attitude of  Senator Murphy. 
I do not wish to prolong this debate because the matter has received intense and lengthy scrutiny. However, I think that the modern situation is highlighted by the difficulty we face in this measure. I refer to the reconciliation of individual rights with community rights. We are considering a violent assault against the rights of a number of people in an aircraft and against the community at large. Against that there is the entitlement of an individual to his rights under the law. The reconciliation is never easy. The great modern problem is to what extent and in what way those 2 entitlements can be reconciled. In giving this matter the consideration that the Senate has given it, we have touched upon a matter of intense modern importance. It is to the credit of the Senate that this aspect was appreciated and it was considered worthwhile to give it this type of scrutiny. 
It is still a rather complex sub-clause, in my estimation, as is always the case when double negatives are used in draftsmanship. I can only hope that the terms of drafting will reflect where the emphasis in vulnerability might lie, because undoubtedly the vulnerability is on the side of an accused person. But we must not forget the question of community rights and that justice is justice to all, not only to an accused person but also to people who have been injured. The community at large is entitled to see that offenders against the public law are punished. 
 I  agree that possibly, in a sense, it could be interpreted in that way. It is one of the dangers inherent in this type of matter, as  Senator Greenwood  has pointed out. We can only hope that a court being called upon to apply these clauses and. sub-clause in the particular circumstances would have regard for the overall serving of justice with due regard to that slightly greater attention which is so often given to an accused person in courts of criminal jurisdiction. This is an important matter. This legislation to some extent represents the good name of Australia in its international negotiations under the Tokyo Agreement. I think it is salutary and shows a serious approach to our accession to that Agreement that we have considered it in this way and in this detail. I am sure that the Minister and his Department will feel fortified in their international negotiations that the Parliament has considered this legislation to be of such importance. I support the amendment. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the motion emanating from the Regulations and Ordinance Committee to disallow these regulations. The circumstances are particularly unfortunate and especially so for the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson),  who is really the innocent party in this matter, lt is unfortunate that this step of moving to disallow the regulations is deemed necessary. These regulations deal with 1 or 2 matters which are always considered of prime importance in the operation of subordinate legislation. Where individual rights are involved, Parliament is always particularly jealous that protection shall rest within the ambit of Parliament itself. The second sphere of particular interest is the appropriation of public revenue for any purpose. The Parliament always jealously regards and protects its sole right to the supervision of thai power. This regulation falls into the second category. Undoubtedly the purport of the regulation is that it has been found desirable, prudent and just that the high ranking officers of the armed Services who are involved should be entitled to the allowances to the degree suggested in the regulation. lt would be unfortunate if any action of ours were to deprive them, even temporarily, of what has now been considered and acknowledged as their just entitlement. 
Nevertheless, there is implicit in the whole situation something much more important than that. I refer to the question of the power and rights of the Parliament itself and the abdication of those rights into subordinate hands. The unfortunate position is that, the report of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee came in and no early action was taken by the Government to meet the situation, as has now been taken. 1 can understand the Minister seeking the solicitude of the Senate in the particular circumstance, but I would have said what  Senator Murphy  has said. After all, the remedial legislation which has been presented in another place is not formally before this chamber. We would be asking the Senate to take formal action to abandon the motion for disallowance in the light of a merely informal presentation of prospective legislation before another place. I cannot conceive that we would be acting in the interests of the Senate, or even acting P..0.perly, if we were to take that into our consideration in forming an attitude on this matter other than an attitude which would deny that regulation. 
As  Senator Murphy  has said, nobody knows what will be the fate of the Bill in another place, or even what will be its fate here. On the face of the Bill, it is a simple one. I have secured a copy of the Bill presented in the House of Representatives. But we can imagine another situation in which a complex regulation is involved, requiring complex remedial action and legislation and a great deal of study to determine whether in fact every aspect was covered which had been considered objectionable by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. If the Senate were faced with that situation, could we rest on the assurance, however well presented and however much we would like to meet it, of the Minister that in substantial terms the proposed legislation would meet all the complex objections of the Committee in a complex situation? I do not think we would be entitled to do that. 1 do not wish unduly to prolong this debate. I consider that the Senate is acting properly. At the moment we have an audience of young people in the gallery. They are witnessing a situation in which the power of Parliament is being exerted and Parliament is being lifted to its correct position in relation to the Executive. To that extent it may rest in the minds of these young people that they have witnessed an occasion when Parliament has asserted its position as the representative of the people. In all the circumstances I am happy that the motion should be carried and the regulation should be disallowed 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Are Statues identical with, or substantially identical with, the Queensland Farmer Assistance (Debts Adjustment) Act 1967 in operation in other States (being a re-enactment of a Statute of 1935-36). 
What are the amounts in the respective State Funds - culled in Queensland 'The Federal Aid Rehabilitation Fund'. 
Are not such Funds, created by monies made available by the Commonwealth, to be applied for the benefit of Farmers. 
How many applications for money have been made in each of the States in which the legislation exists, in each of the last 5 years. 
If this information is not held by the Federal Government, can such information be obtained. 
As the legislation is for the express relief of primary producers economically affected by drought, is the Minister satisfied that primary producers are familiar with the legislation and their rights under it. 
What monies have been made available by the Commonwealth to the States, individually, since the inception of the scheme. 
What amounts have been made available to each State in each of the last 5 years. 
In common with other honourable senators, more particularly those associated with the law, the Australian Democratic Labor Party welcomes the emergence of this piece of legislation. Although in its drafting it did not provide any great technical challenge to the draftsmen who were instrumental in framing it, I am sure it must have given them gratification of another kind. I refer to that gratification which would be shared by those in this chamber who for a long time have thought that for many reasons - not only from the point of view of the encouragement of recruitment of officers to this important section of governmental administration but also for other reasons - this branch of the executive should be elevated to a new position consonant with its increasing importance and status in the community. 
With the increase in the population and development of this country increasing demands will be placed on the services of the Parliamentary draftsmen as legislation is required in increasing volume. But more important, I think, is the changing complexion of society. Quite apart from one's political idealology or political views there is a common acceptance today of greater state intervention in the rights of people. This is emerging with the growth of the welfare state and other such developments. State intervention in the lives of the community is brought about almost invariably by statute. Due to the changing character of society there has been and will continue to be an increasing and accelerating demand for the services of those who are instrumental in framing the mechanics of legislation. That is why the burden on the Parliamentary Draftsman's staff is becoming increasingly heavy, and will become even heavier. 
If the action that has been taken is belated, at least it is timely in that it anticipates what 1 would anticipate, namely an increasing demand for their services. Not only is there an increasing demand for the actual drafting of legislation. In addition, the type of draftsmanship is becoming increasingly demanding. If one looks back at the old statutes of hundreds of years ago one will see that they enunciated simple principles in which there was legislative drafting recitation, but when one comes to statues in which there is, for example, a mathematical formula of very great complexity, as will be found in the Income Tax Acts and other Acts, which has to be carried into legal expression, then one realises the burdens which now are being imposed on those who have that responsibility. lt is all right for a Bill of that character to be drafted and to come into this chamber and for senators to sit in judgment on it. Perhaps sometimes they do that rather arbitrarily and sometimes severely, but if one realised how very difficuilt it was to get the Bill to that form at that point, one then perhaps would have a greater sympathy for those who are responsible for the initial drafting. Perhaps honourable senators here who have a duty and a responsibility, would be a little less precious in their criticism - of minor aspects of drafting failures or drafting deficiencies. 1 think it is time that we put on record that the Parliamentary Draftsman occupies always a position of very great power. The Minister recited in his speech that very often the rather indeterminate and sometimes inchoate thoughts of the Executive are passed on to the Draftsman for precise definition. In some cases those definitions may embody departures from accepted principles and particularly may trespass upon, say, principles of the common law where statute will take over from the common law in some aspect or other, for example, the movement of the onus of proof or something of that character, or an intrusion upon civil rights. As the Executive itself has limited time and as the Parliament, when it comes to scrutinise the legislation also has limited time, the degree of responsibility on the Parliamentary Draftsman is immense. It is to the great credit of the devoted members of this service that over the years the task has been performed with such considerable success and that the Commonwealth statutes in their drafting are eminent among similar statutes and drafting in all countries which follow the British parliamentary and constitutional system. Therefore, this Bill is timely and important in that it gives a belated recognition of the new and increasing role and responsibility of this section of the executive government in the life of the nation and in the life of the Parliament. 
I mentioned to  Senator Gair  a moment ago that my recollection Ls - I think the honourable senator probably will confirm this - that giving the Parliamentary Draftsman the title of Parliamentary Counsel which follows the English practice, is giving to the Parliamentary Draftsman a title which has been borne by the Parliamentary Draftsman in Queensland for many years. I think the late  Mr Broadbent  and  Mr Seymour  enjoyed the title of Parliamentary Draftsman and Counsel. 1 do not know whether the word 'parliamentary' preceded the word 'counsel'. 
 I think that could be said. The gentlemen who are advising the Minister would perhaps recognise that the standard of drafting, particularly in the hands of  Mr Seymour,  die recently retired Parliamentary Draftsman of Queensland, was very high. That brings me to another aspect of the matter which is the emerging concept of parallel legislation between the Commonwealth and the States through the conferences of AttorneysGeneral. Undoubtedly that is imposing an additional burden on the Parliamentary Draftsman. The drafting of parallel legislation will become of increasing importance and an increasing burden. The staff must be equipped numerically and technically to co-operate with the States in the drafting of this increasing mass of parallel legislation. Therefore we welcome this new definition of the posititions of the Draftsman and his staff, and I take this opportunity to thank them personally for many favours done to me over the years in my long association with them, and particularly with  Mr Ewens,  on the Public Accounts Committee many years ago. 
So far as I can gather, this Bill will create an intermediate status. On the one hand we have officers under the Public Service Act and the high officers whose salaries are determined by Parliament but they are officers under the Public Service Act, if my recollection is correct. Can the Minister inform me whether the permanent heads of departments come under the Public Service Act? 
Very well. The permanent heads of departments come under the Public Service Act. At the other end of the spectrum there is the Auditor-General whose position is created by statute. He does nol come under the Public Service Act. In a particular way he is the creature and the servant of the Parliament. In this legislation we Introduce an immediate situation. We introduce a body of 3 officers who no longer will be under the Public Service Act. They will be the creation of Parliament but they will not stand in the complete position of the Auditor-General nor in the complete position of the permanent head of a department. More particularly while they are called Parliamentary Counsel and perhaps in that sense have  a  particular responsibility to the Parliament as the Auditor-General has a statutory responsibility to the Parliament, their salaries are not determined, as is the Auditor-General's salary, under statute. Their salaries will be prescribed as are the salaries of other officers, more particularly the permanent heads of the higher grades of ordinary administrative departments. lt becomes a question, therefore, whether in creating this new intermediate status we have done the wise thing or whether it may not have been better and more prudent and perhaps more eloquent to have put the Parliamentary Counsel in the position of the Auditor-General, particularly in view of the preliminary word 'parliamentary' in the title.  Senator Murphy  has said that while they bear that title they still will be substantially advisers to the Attorney-General as the No. 1 law officer of the Crown responsible, in an intermediate sense, for the presentation of the Government's legislative programme even though it emerges from Ministers.  Senator Murphy  says that they still will be really officers and servants of the Executive. To that extent they will not be. in terms of the title, servants of the Parliament simpliciter or exclusively. I would not like to see the term 'parliamentary' before the word 'counsel' dropped because of that, but I think it raises the question whether, if they bear that title, as the Auditor-General does not bear it but has it in fact and in law, they should not be put in the same position as is the Auditor-General in the determination of their salaries. 
Presuming that those considerations are correct, I leave them to the Minister for comment because apparently honourable gentlemen in another place already have been concerned as to the prescription of the salaries of these officers and in this sense it does not concern me; it merely occupies my mind as to whether there might nol be a better and wiser way to define the method of fixing the salaries of these officers and, more particularly, declaring the salaries by statute. 
Another function of the Parliamentary Draftsman or the Parliamentary Counsel set out here is the control and drafting of regulations. We know that the regulatory operations of the Administration, because of the development of the principles 1 mentioned earlier, are becoming wider and wider and penetrating more and more deeply into the community. Regulations are inclined to mass and the proper drafting and scrutiny of them is becoming of increasing importance. To an increasing degree the Parliament is finding it necessary to move for the disallowance of regulations. With all due respect to the present members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, 1 cannot conceive that they are more active or more interested than were some of their predecessors, say, when  Senator Wright  was a member of the Committee. The Committee has always had the benefit of eminent counsel yet, on my return to the Parliament on this occasion, I find an increase in the number of occasions on which there have been motions for disallowance. At least that is my impression. If that is so, it would indicate that it has not been possible to give the technical scrutiny to regulations that they warrant and that these matters are slipping through. But for the oversight of the Senate they would pass into operation undesirably and possibly almost beyond power. 
As it is a function of the Parliamentary Draftsman, as is delineated in the Bill, to be responsible for the drafting and supervision of regulations there is obviously a very great need for an expansion of his staff and that, to a major degree, is the purpose of this Bill. I hope that the Bill will achieve its purpose. Now that the position of the Parliamentary Draftsman is to be considerably elevated in status - with the appointment of 2 assistants who will occupy particularised positions - the job could present itself to young men and women as a viable administrative Public Service career which has at the end of it a rewarding position not only from the point of view of the financial return but also the status it holds and the work it presents. 
 On the question of the possibility of employment? 
 I have not had much time to study this Bill. I have always hoped for some measure of this character. Apparently  Senator Devitt  has reservations about it. I have not had much of an opportunity to talk to him, although we have had a quick word. I do not know whether  Senator Devitt  is clear in his own mind on what the Bill entails. Prima facie, apart from the matter which I have raised, I can see no basic objection to the Bill. I think the principle is good and the proposition is good. It is a question of whether we have put in the most explicit and desirable terms the proposition which this legislation seeks to embody. 
One of the big responsibilities which will rest upon the draftsmen will be the continued consolidation of the statutes. We have had a proliferation of legislation in recent years. I think the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said the other day that the legislative programme of the Government in this session is the heaviest in the history of the Parliament. It boils down to the technical management of the consequences of amending Bills proliferating and statutes getting out of date, which is of considerable concern to practitioners as well as to many other people who are not strictly practitioners but who have occasion to consult the statutes. I think the last consolidation of the Commonwealth statutes was in 1950 - 20 years ago. An extraordinarily long time has passed since the last consolidation. Any practitioner who has occasion to consult the Commonwealth statutes is experiencing increasing difficulty now in plodding and ploughing his way through the mass of amendments which have been passed over the years and in discovering his way through the voluminous supplements which are now issued in an attempt to assist those people who are consulting the statutes, lt was a practice to make available a set of the Commonwealth statutes to honourable senators and members of the Parliament when they first entered the Parliament. I do not think that any full sets are available at present. I was not able to obtain a set when I re-entered the Parliament, but this was immaterial to me because I had retained the bulk of the set I was given some years ago. However, I think that this indicates the very precarious position at present. No doubt it is a consequence of the shortage of staff in the office of the Parliamentary Draftsman. 
The precise attitude of the drafting section in its new form and under its new title to the actual Parliament remains to be discovered. The Australian Democratic Labor Party has received the co-operation of the parliamentary drafting staff when it has had occasion to take the initiative and present Bills. But  Senator Gair  has drawn my attention to an incident which occurred in 1966 when an approach was made to the then Attorney-General through the Parliamentary Draftsman,  Mr Ewens,  to make a draftsman available to assist in the drafting of a Bill to amend the legislation in relation to child endowment payments.  Mr Snedden,  who was the Attorney-General at that time, replied to  Senator Gair's  letter on 20th April 1966. 
The letter to  Mr Ewens  from  Senator Gair  was dated 13th April 1966 and on 20th April 1966,  Mr Snedden,  the Attorney-General at that time, forwarded a reply to  Senator Gair.  I think the reason given for refusing assistance, without reading the whole of the letter, was that the staff was just not available to assist in the drawing up of a Bill which had complexities and which would have taken a considerable time. 
Child endowment, lt was not suggested that the office of the Parliamentary Draftsman would not cooperate if it were possible to do so. It was not possible for it to do so because of a limitation of personnel and time. I have no doubt that members of both Houses who approach the Parliamentary Draftsman for advice, counsel and assistance in the drafting of amendments or actual initiating legislation will receive the same co-operation. We can only hope that the good will of the office will be accompanied by the ability to carry the good will into effect and that the services of the parliamentary draftsmen will be not only able to be provided but will in fact be provided. 
I conclude on the note that the Parliamentary Draftsman and his staff have tremendous power. I think this power should be recognised because, as I have pointed out, circumscription of the time and opportunity to draft legislation and the entrusting of drafting to men who do not have great technical ability or a keen sense of the duties, responsibilities and limitations of their office could in later years embroil a nation in situations which it wanted to avoid. As 1 said earlier, even under the pressures of demand and a shortage of personnel it is greatly to the credit of this office that our legislation is of such a high level in its technical presentation. Therefore I have the greatest pleasure in supporting this legislation on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I hope the Minister will consider the points of criticism which I have advanced. However, in general terms, the DLP looks to a major expansion in this office and the facilities it will be able to provide, to a quick consolidation of the Commonwealth statutes, to a closer control of the drafting and supervision of regulations and, in all senses, to assistance in the more efficient functioning of the parliamentary institution. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will be quite content for this matter to be stood over in the circumstances that have emerged and particularly those adverted to by  Senator Anderson.  But for quite some time now there has been concern on all sides of the Senate that the sitting hours are not totally satisfactory. As far as members of the Democratic Labor Party are concerned, there are 2 aspects. There are some duties that we share in common with all other senators. First of all, senators are legislators. 
Perhaps that is their prime responsibility. But they are also representatives of the people. They have to see the people frequently. That applies to every senator of every party. Then there is the horrible element of politics. As realists, we have to observe that. So senators also have duties that are perhaps extra to their responsibilities in this chamber. We share those duties with all other senators. 
But members of this Party are in a peculiar .situation. Because of the mathematical distribution of strength in this chamber and the position of this Party, we have to see very many people who wish to put propositions associated with legislation on which they will see the official Opposition and the Government. They also come to us. Particularly during the legislative session of the Parliament - the autumn .session - this imposes a very heavy burden on the members of this Party. In addition there is the new look that the Senate is developing; that is, the emergence of the committee system. The sitting hours of the Senate were oriented to quite a different Senate from the present one. We have the proliferation of committees and the circumscription which the Senate imposes upon the operations of those committees. The standing orders do not permit the committees to sit during hours when the Senate itself is sitting. They impose a deadline for the presentation of reports. In addition one faces quite heavy hours of sitting and it is becoming increasingly burdensome for members of the committees to attend their committees, to comply with the directions of the Senate as to the presentation  of  their reports and to attend to their duties in this chamber. This affects the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in 2 ways. Firstly, because of the proliferation of legislation - I understand this is one of the heaviest, legislative programmes that the Parliament has ever seen - every one of those Bills has to be studied by one or another member of the Democratic Labor Party. I think I hold 6 or 7 shadow portfolios, as does  Senator Gair  and the other members of the Party. That might be lightly said but it is a very real responsibility, because propositions in the Bills have to be studied and propositions coming from the Opposition have to be examined. We ourselves may want to introduce propositions and there may be representations from various groups which we may elect to try to implement by amendments. Those are extremely heavy burdens. 
The Democratic Labor Party is trying to play its part in the development of the committee system and the operation of the committees when they are formed. We have to spread our numbers with members serving on 2 or more committees. This burden is becoming extremely heavy and therefore a more sane approach to the sitting hours of the Senate would be very welcome in this corner. We have heard these proposals. They have been put up in a rather offhand way and in a rather inchoate fashion. But now that the matter has come to this pass and as  Senator Anderson  has suggested this debate be stood over I firmly suggest that the parties agree in the intervening period that this be brought formally before the Parliament with a specific proposition from one Party which may be exchanged with proposals from the other Parties. Between the 4 Parties according to the burdens of different characters which rest upon the various Parties we should be able to get at least ' some consensus on suitable sitting hours. 
I think  Senator Anderson's  suggestion has a great deal of merit to commend it. We would be happy to see this debate stood aside but 1 do not think it should be for an unduly long period. I would support the suggestion which  Senator Anderson  has made. 
I assure the Minister that his best fears will be realised. The amendment I propose to move is in these terms: In sub-clause (1.) delete all words after 'rates', second occurring and insert in their stead 'as are determined by statute, but so that until 1st January 1971 any such allowances may be such as are prescribed'. The proposed amendment insists upon a statutory requirement. The Senate would then give a temporary dispensation which, I think, would be a sounder principle than the present one. 
I wish to move a motion relating to general business. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Are you seeking leave to make a statement? 
Yes. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- There being no objection leave is granted. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party was under the impression that the debate to be resumed today would be on the motion relating to the royal commission into rural industries. However we were informed that we were under a misapprehension, that the matter of the royal commission was now included in orders of the day and that the general business would proceed according to the notices of motion in the order in which they appear. 
Yes, that is right. The general business item in relation to the rural industries has been debated and adjourned and has now become an order of the day and will not come on in general business tonight. 
Therefore general business would proceed in terms of the notices of motion in the order in which they appear on the business paper under general business, the first being that a select committee of the Senate be appointed to inquire into Australia on Defence. 1 am seeking to move that notice of motion No. 1 under General Business be postponed until after the consideration of notice of motion No. 2; ia other words to rearrange the motions. 
I was not able to give  Senator Murphy  any earlier intimation because 1 was under the impression thai the rural industries matter would be debated again today. 1 was under a further misapprehension that Government business, orders of the day, would come on today. Although we did not sit on the Thursday evening because of the reception to  Her  Majesty, [ understand that it was considered to be a sitting day for this purpose and that that item lost its place in the queue. So we come back to General Business and our motion. Being under the 2 misapprehensions I was unable to inform  Senator Murphy  earlier about this. Both of these matters on the notice paper are in our name and it surely should be a matter of election subject to giving notice. I would have liked to have given earlier notice but in the circumstances I could not. We would like to proceed in the order I have indicated. Therefore I move: 
That item No. 2, notice of motion, General Business, be translated to precede the discussion on item  Ko.  1, notice of motion, standing in my name. 
by leave - The idea behind the motion which stands as item No. 2, notice of motion, under General Business, in the name of  Senator Little  was that the time had come, as evidenced by the obvious concern being experienced and articulated in Australia in the States and in the Commonwealth, for a look at the totality of the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States. Whether blame lies here or there, whether anyone is not getting enough or whether he should get his allocation in a different form is, in our concept, by the way. The point is that the whole structure now requires a review and the idea of putting it in this form was, firstly, that it should be looked at in an objective fashion, not in any party political fashion. Secondly, it will be noticed that, rather differently from our usual proposition, we have suggested a joint select committee of both Houses, the reason being that the Senate has a responsibility as the States House in its original fundamental form. 
I know that. We can only put the concept forward. The second reason is that, after all, the House which is substantially responsible for the raising and disbursement of revenue is the House of Representatives. That is why we thought that the particular skill of members of that House and their position in the functioning of the Commonwealth should be drawn on in association with honourable senators to constitute a joint committee. I feel that our objective approach to our proposition could well be destroyed, and certainly could be marred, if intruded in this was to be some criticism by one Party of the Government, or by the Government of a previous government, or something of that character. lt would be open, of course, to honourable senators -  Senator Willesee  propounds and other honourable senators would support notice of motion No. 4 - to express, in the debate on notice of motion No. 2, the views that they have. It might be said that in the context there is nothing wrong with the present arrangement but it is not being worked fairly in the interests of the Commonwealth, or something of that character. Nevertheless I think that is a debating point to be made rather than a point of substance in association with the motion which was put. 
We would not want that but that would be a matter for you. 
The debate could very well run on and views could be expressed, and according to the views which emerged during the debate the Opposition might then say that perhaps the resolution did not adequately express its views. At that stage it could propound an amendment to our motion if it so desired. That course would be open to it according to the ebb and flow of the debate. I have dealt now with the first point as to whether item No.1 and item No. 4 should be considered together. 
I would not see any great merit in advancing item No. 4 to discuss it in association with item No. 2, but if the Opposition feels that that condition precedent not having been satisfied, it might have to take a point of view in relation to the movement of item No. 2 above item No. 1 to give precedence to  Senator Little's  proposal which I moved, then there are 2 ways in which that could be done. One would be for us to withdraw our motion and the other would be to translate the items. When my motion was put on it preceded a defence statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which was of considerable length and in very great detail. That is why we feel now that the other matter has assumed an urgency which could justify its promotion above item No. 1. However, we do not desire to denigrate in any way the importance of the defence statement by taking it off the business paper. For this reason we would rather support and present to the Senate a proposition that  Senator Little's  motion be advanced, that item No. 1 be dropped below it and that the Senate proceed on the basis of discussion of  Senator Little's  motion dissociated from any other motion now on the business paper. 1 would hope that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and honourable senators supporting him could see the reasons which justify my contention in adopting this procedure, and we would hope to get support for it. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South WalesLeader of the Opposition) - by leave - To put the matter in order I move, as an amendment to  Senator Byrne's  motion: 
At end of motion add 'and that the Senate shall consider concurrently with Notice of Motion No. 2, Notice of Motion No. 4, General Business,  in  the name of  Senator Willesee,  namely "That the Senate considers that the Government has failed to make reasonable financial arrangements with the States for carrying out the activities of the States, local government and semi-governmental authorities ".'. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator  Murphy's amendment) be added. 
This matter, as  Senator Murphy  has said, has been discussed by honourable senators in all parts of the Parliament. I think that those who have given their minds to it are unanimous about the desirability of writing into the statute the principle which is embodied in  Senator Greenwood's  amendment. But what I am concerned about is the form which the amendment takes. The form actually, and I think undesirably, prescribes a method which will operate for some months. We take that as our standard to frame a new and acceptable method which shall come in after that. 1 would much prefer that we set the principle and then made this a dispensation from it. Therefore I would suggest for quick consideration that in lieu of the words proposed by  Senator Greenwood  we adopt words somewhat in these terms: In sub-clause (1.) delete all words after 'rates', second occurring, and insert in their stead 'as are determined by statute, but so that until 1st January 1971 any such allowances may be such as are prescribed'. We then state the principle and allow a dispensation from it rather than state an incorrect principle and replace it with a correct one after the expiration of some time. This may be a matter of semantics, but it may be of substance. 
Perhaps the honourable senator would indicate his views on it. He has indicated his views to me privately, but perhaps he might indicate them to the Committee. 
Due to the good offices of the Parliamentary Draftsman, who has very generously anticipated his forthcoming position, it is suggested that the amendment 1 propose to move might emerge in this form: Al the point of insertion add 'as the Parliament provides, but so that until 1st January 1971 those salaries and allowances shall be as prescribed'. The difference may be a difference of subtlety, but the amendment as proposed by  Senator Greenwood  postulates 2 principles. In the absence of knowledge in the future by people of what the Senate was adverting to when it included this provision there may be confusion. The 2 principles embodied are that the Senate authorise payment for 6 months expressly by regulation and thereafter by statute. Those 2 principles are involved. If my amendment is accepted the Senate will authorise 1 principle - the payment by statute - plus a dispensation from it for 6 months or thereabouts. As the Senate is so sensitive about the principles which it will be writing into the Bill I think it should be sensitive about ensuring that clause 6 is expressed in terms which best and most effectively embody those principles so that in years to come all who run may read the actual circumstances. The knowledge of them should not be denied to those who have occasion to consult the statute. I submit that an amendment in the form I have outlined is preferable. 
The Minister has agreed to write in  1  principle on these minor allowances. I am concerned that, having created the Office of Parliamentary Counsel and having put its officers in a particular category - that of statutory officers - we put them in a different category when it comes to the allowances that we are now discussing. The Office is created by statute. The salary and allowances are fixed by statute. It is interesting to note that no similar provision is made in respect of other officers who might be called statutory officers. Their allowances are not fixed in relation to any category of the Public Service. I have been supplied With a list of statutory office holders. They include the Auditor-General, the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner, the Commonwealth Commissioner and Second Commissioners of Taxation. 
 Yes, the salary and annual allowances fixed by statute. No express provision is made for other allowances to be fixed by statute. In some way those allowances are at large. The list of statutory office holders also includes members of the Public Service Board. Their salary and annual allowances are fixed by statute, which means that they are fixed by the Governor-General. In respect of other expenses, again they are not tied to a particular Public Service category. The allowance for the Commissioner of Trade Practices in respect of travelling expenses is fixed by the Attorney-General. For the Public Service Arbitrator, amounts in respect of travelling expenses are fixed by the Minister. For members of the Tariff Board - this is interesting - the allowances are determined by the Minister after consultation with the Public Service Board. The Minister does not fix them in relation to a particular Public Service category. No doubt when the fixing comes about the Public Service Board is consulted, which may well put them in a particular category if it is thought appropriate; but they are not required to be put in any particular category. 
The list of statutory office holders includes the terms and conditions of employment of the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. They are determined by the Commission with the approval of the Public Service Board. The list contains a considerable number of other statutory office holders, including members of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Governor and  Deputy  Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia. These are described as statutory office holders whose salary and allowances are determined by the Governor-General. Whether those allowances mean the type of allowance that we are considering or some type of annual allowance is not clear. I presume they would include rather than exclude these allowances. On this list I can see no statutory office holder whose allowances of this type are fixed in any particular Public Service category. The officers to whom this Bill refers will become statutory officers. As we have put them in this position, I do not see why we should exclude them from the list and put them in any different position from that of other statutory officers in relation to these allowances. Quite apart from the other considerations which were presented by  Senator Murphy,  I see no good reason why we should discriminate in this area of allowances. If we make these officers statutory officers, we should treat the allowances in the same way that the allowances of other statutory office holders have been treated. 
I agree that normally a matter of this nature should be discussed at greater leisure at another time, but when the accuracy of the Journals of the Senate is being questioned it is perhaps proper to, as far as possible, discuss the matter as soon as practicable. Standing order 64 has been read out over and over again. An urgency motion requires 2 things. Firstly, a foundation should be laid by the person who proposes to move it. The condition precedent to the moving of the motion is that the mover of the motion shall view it as a matter of urgency. Of course, the Journals of the Senate only purport to be the records of the proceedings of this chamber. I refer to the book entitled 'Australian Senate Practice', which was written by the  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr Odgers.  I. refer in particular to page 198. In relation to who makes the decision as to whether the matter is a matter of urgency which falls within standing order 64 it states that if the Senate decides that it comes within that category it must go into the Journals of the Senate as part of the record of the proceedings. But in this case the condition precedent, the basis, the foundation for the motion is not within the determination of the Senate as I read page 198 of this book, which states: 
Before the business of the day is proceeded wilh, motion may be made that the Senate- at its rising - adjourn to an unusual time, for the purpose of debating some matter of urgency. 
The limitations placed upon senators wishing to move an urgency motion were summarised by  President  Givens on 27th April 1921 as follows: 
The first is lhat the question to bc discussed must be one of urgency, and it has been laid down by my predecessors lhat the matter of urgency is not 1 for the Presiding Officer to settle, as that is decided by 4 honourable senators rising in their places in support of the motion, which is regarded as sufficient proof of urgency. 
The condition is that 4 honourable senators should rise in their places in support of the motion. The Senate makes no decision on that aspect at all. In other words, the condition precedent or the foundation for the motion is severed from the motion itself. The first condition is not within the competence of the Presiding Officer; it is proved by 4 honourable senators rising in their places. Perhaps that fact should be recorded. That having been done it comes down to a question of a decision on the severed motion, and that is a decision of the Senate which is properly carried into the record. It may be carried in that isolated form. In those circumstances I would suggest that the procedures have been completely proper. Hansard, no doubt, should have carried the full record, but so far as the accuracy of the Journals is concerned I think the proper practice in terms of  President  Givens's interpretation and decision has been followed and 1 think, therefore, that  Senator Cant  has no substance in the proposition which he propounds. 
lt is not what happened in the Senate; it is what happened at the will of the Senate and at the direction of the Senate and what the record would carry is 'and the motion being duly supported' and so on. That would be the record that is required by standing order 64. 
 It is not what actually happened. From the Journals of the Senate- 
I wish to direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, who represents the Prime Minister in this chamber. In view of the virtually certain and apparent imminence of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community and the great economic consequences of it to Australia, particularly to the rural industries, will the Prime Minister arrange for the preparation at an early date of a White Paper on the implications to Australia of Britain's entry? 
The subject of conservation which is before the Senate this afternoon is one of considerable importance. The Senate is indebted to the honourable senator who brought it forward for discussion. One of the extraordinary manifestations in our contemporary history is the growing concern and the acute alertness of the modern world to the significance of environment. Perhaps that stems from the fact that man today is making greater and greater demands upon the physical resources of the world because of his aspirations to a higher standard of living and a wider distribution of the products of the earth, and his ingenuity in fashioning and fabricating those products to his own use. Therefore we see the application of chemistry in so many fields creating new, synthetic substances and drawing upon the natural endowment of the world to create new and significant additions to man's use and knowledge. But unfortunately, accompanying this tremendous urge, are the consequences to the deposit of physical resources from which man draws. Not the least of those is the extension of man's living into the natural areas of the world's surface with the consequential inpingement upon the fauna and flora over the face of the earth. 
From time immemorial this has been done without any particular concern or perhaps any need to be particularly concerned under the stress of imminent necessity, for the preservation of the fauna and flora. As the world population increases at such a great rate and as increasing demands on the physical resources multiply man is growing concerned for the consequences of his own actions. Today the world is not only conscious of contemporary history, it is also conscious of man's own history and the history of the world. Institutes of learning such as the universities, the technological institutes and institutes which patronise learning in many ways are undertaking examinations of man's past and for an archaeological examination of the past of the world. This is evidence of an increasing intellectual interest among people for a mastery of the knowledge of why we are here, what our background was, from whence we came, and how this information in turn might be used for the betterment of man in the future, and, if not that, then for the enrichment of his mind and the enrichment of his culture. This is why nations today are growing particularly conscious of their responsibility not only to their own people but to mankind in general to protect, preserve and cherish the natural deposits which are their immediate responsibility within the physical confines of the national boundaries. 
In this regard Australia stands in a rather peculiar and privileged position. It is conceded that Australia is an extraordinarily old land and its fauna and flora very often are species which do not appear anywhere else. The species have all the evidence of archaeological age. Australian investigation and research is in a position to make a particular, specialised and most significant contribution to the wealth of man's knowledge. Perhaps while all other nations have this responsibility we, in this remote continent in the southern seas, have a particular concern which I am pleased the nation is manifesting. In the past this has been due in a large measure to interested people and to enthusiasts who individually or in small groups or through institutions which they have created have gone about the protection of one or another item of Australia's spread of flora and fauna. I know the tendency today is to concentrate, in the realm of protection of our national endowment of fauna, on the kangaroo, that unique species with which Australia and the Australian image is now internationally inseparably associated. It would be a tragedy if the demands of commerce or anything else should result in the destruction and the elimination of this precious, unique and ancient species and deny it to future generations in this world. 
To a large measure the national alertness to this problem has been the consequence of the interest of particular groups and particular people such as the honourable senator who moved this resolution today. Of course, always in this situation there is the conflict between the economic necessity which drives people on and the consequences of the resultant activity to that fauna and flora which are going to be used. The situation of the red kangaroo or the grey kangaroo, or the whole species, is no exception. First of all, it is necessary in this country that we have vast expanses of pasturage for the type of husbandry in which we engage, to feed the great flocks of sheep and the great herds of cattle. In areas that have not a high carrying capacity, they require vast spreads of land which must be normally available to them. Because of the nature of that country these Australian marsupials choose to live and have lived there immemorially, but in increasing numbers they are likely to deny to the people wanting to develop this country and draw their sustenance and living from it the opportunity to farm and culture that land in the proper way. Then this conflict arises between our responsibility to preserve these marsupials for the future and our responsibility to command the natural resources of our country in the interests of this generation and for the development of the nation, and this is a conflict not easy to resolve. 
Of course, the present alertness to the endangered position of the kangaroo is a manifestation of a wider problem which includes the threat to other species and particularly to our great areas of flora, to our timber resources and things of that nature. If we abandon these things and these concerns we may be able to live in some physical sense and in some mechanical sense more adequately and more comfortably with all of the modern technological aids, but life will bc robbed of something. Not only will the individual life of the Australian, his physical life and his opportunity for resort to country areas to see life as it was years and years ago be deprived but the world will be robbed of the intellectual pleasure and the cultural heritage which are its right. Therefore there are these great problems to be resolved, not only in Australia but in the modern world. I did not have the opportunity to hear the contribution of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  to this debate because I had to be out of the Senate for a few moments but I understand that he has informed the Senate that a conference is to take place in Darwin between the flora and fauna conservation authorities and from that it would be expected and would bc hoped there may be a consortium of appropriate Ministers from the States with the Commonwealth which might embark upon a unified national approach to this problem. The one thing that possibly is absent at the moment when we come to consider this is not the enthusiasm of  Senator Mulvihill  or the concern of us individually here, or the concern of many people in other places. It is the absence of established fact and reliable information as to how far the depredation has gone, how one can reconcile these differences to which I have adverted and, how the co-operation of all interested units and all responsible units can be commanded, commandeered and amalgamated so that the problem can be handled. I think therefore that the debate is salutary. 
The problem is great and it is attracting a new urgency. The national concern now has a sense of urgency about it also. In the course of some deliberations we have had and in the course of some investigations that have been made in another area of Senate activity over the past 12 months I have been comforted by the manifestation in the Australian society of what I call the voluntary organisation. These are not merely people who are driven by enthusiasm but people who are equipped technically and in scientific areas and who lend this scientific training in a voluntary way to the preservation and the identification of fauna and flora and the exotics in this country. Therefore we have a tremendous amount not only of goodwill and enthusiasm but also of actual knowledge and a high level of skill ready to be commanded and merely looking for a lead. 
If the enthusiasm that is now apparent in this country and throughout the world for the preservation and conservation of national and international environments is mobilised, if there is the necessary exchange of technical skills from one country to another, and if that is mobilised in this country by the interest of the Commonwealth in co-operation with the States to create legislation ultimately - whether in the form suggested by  Senator Mulvihill,  by the passage of an appropriate Act of this legislature, or by parallel legislation in this legislature and in the State Parliaments, or in some other way - then Australia will be taking her place in this new army of international enthusiasts for the preservation of the national and the international environment. Man does not live by bread alone and the natural resources of this globe are limited. They may be used and re-used but we must ultimately live within them. The natural endowment is limited and cannot be expanded, particularly those living creatures and living plants. They cannot be replaced. In the absence of these things, if I may use the words of the English philosopher Hobbes which have been used in another context, life could become short, nasty, brutish and poor. That could be the prospect in a totally mechanised and devitalised society in which we have been the architects of the annihilation of so much that is beautiful, so much that is valuable, so much that solaces man's mind and spirit in the material world in which he lives. Therefore I commend the development of this debate and 1 commend to the Minister the principles embodied in the resolution. 

 Senator GEORGES (Queensland) 14.42] - Once again it has been necessary to attract by an urgency motion the attention of the Senate to a problem which faces this nation. One begins to wonder when will the need cease for urgent matters to be raised. One could perhaps say: Not until such time as there is a change of government, because in the period in which this Liberal-Country Party coalition has held power in this country federally and in the States the problems of the nation have increased and the neglect of those matters which are of national concern has increased. In the field of conservation we have a subject which is the concern of all, as has become evident in debates here, because there has been unanimity on the part of those who represent each of the parties in this place that something must bc done about conservation especially as far as our fauna is concerned. One wonders whether one ought to be somewhat afraid of this unanimity - afraid that because we all agree nothing will be done, because there is so much acceptance of the proposition that something ought to be done that in effect little will be done. The case for a national commission on conservation has been established here. The case for cooperation by the States to protect our environment and to protect the lives of our marsupials has been established here. The case for federal initiative in this field has been established and this is the purpose of this urgency motion initiated by  Senator Mulvihill,  who has on so many occasions attracted the attention of the Senate to this concern that the kangaroo is in danger of extinction. 1 recall the time when it was impossible to travel throughout Queensland without being constantly aware that kangaroos and other natural fauna existed in quantity, lt was evident. Sometimes it was dangerously evident. Sometimes it was necessary to place a protector on the front of your vehicle, especially at night, so that you did not suffer damage by collision with kangaroos on the road. Twelve months ago 1 had occasion to travel 6,000 miles throughout Queensland, to the north, into the middle west and back to Brisbane. On not one occasion did a kangaroo cross my path until I came back to the suburb of Bunynville when a grey kangaroo hopped across the road in front of me. Some years ago that would not have happened. The slaughter that has continued over past years in Queensland requires some corrective action. 1 shall read to the Senate from the editorial which appeared in the 'Courier Mail' on 23rd April 1970. It is headed Killing Kangaroos' and states: 
The  interest  of members of the Commonwealth Parliament in the conservation of kangaroos is commendable, but it is a matter for which Stale governments have the responsibility. 
The killing of kangaroos is particularly a problem which concerns Queensland, for this State has by far the largest kangaroo population, at least of the eastern States, and, until this year, had few conservation controls. 
A result of this was that when, more than a year ago, the New South Wales Government introduced a controlled harvesting scheme and divided the State into 17 management zones allotted to selective shooters, teams of southern shooters moved into Queensland. 
Concerned at this position the State Government increased the royalties payable on kangaroos and reduced the number of licensed chillers, lt was hoped that this would at least limit the slaughter of kangaroos. 
The editorial finishes with a question: 
But has it? 
It has not. The intention was good but the application did not go quite far enough. The limitation on the number of chillers meant that they were to be placed SO miles apart. There was no licensing arrangement so far as the shooters were concerned. In an endeavour to gain the greatest advantage out of the situation the shooters killed at will knowing that the specified distance of 50 miles was not enough. Shooters serving a chiller50 miles away would invade their territory. So the slaughter went on unabated and without care or consideration, humanely, economically or otherwise. 
The approach to this economic or commercial exploitation of the kangaroo for meat parallels our approach to the exploitation of every other natural resource, whether it be prawns in the Gulf, crayfish in the north or fish on the continental shelf. The uncontrolled exploitation goes on and without Government control, supervision or action the private individual, the commercial exploiter, naturally must follow his own desire which is to get the most out of it that he can before the industry is destroyed. In this industry we face a double loss, not only the commercial benefits of the industry but also the value of this particular kind of fauna for other reasons. It is a direct destruction of our environment. 
We have set up committees to investigate the problems of air pollution and water pollution. We have set up a committee to investigate the level of aircraft noise. We have set up all sorts of committees to investigate the attack upon our environment. But those are ad hoc arrangements. They are arrangements which should he brought under the control of a single commission, either an environmental council or a national conservation commission. It cannot be left to the States. The Commonwealth Government must take the initiative and, as this urgency motion suggests, in cooperation with the States set up a national programme of conservation which will include the protection of kangaroos as particularly specified in the motion. 
The destruction of the kangaroo has become of interest internationally. Only recently, on 29th March 1970, the 'New York Times' carried the banner headline Australia: The Kangaroo is in Danger'. The article which follows describes and documents the slaughter and the devastation of the kangaroo population throughout Australia. So it will be seen that the matter of conservation is of concern not only to us in Australia but also internationally. We must accept fully the responsibility which goes with the fact that our flora and fauna are unique. Because they are unique a heavy responsibility is placed upon us to protect them. 
On humanitarian grounds the case against this indiscriminate slaughter of the kangaroo is such that it should attract the attention of everyone. To me it brings the thought to mind that if we treat with kindness those dumb animals which are in our protection and if we raise the concern of the legislators and the people in general to the necessity to protect from harm this area of life, perhaps there is a chance that we may transfer some of that humanity to mankind itself in the more troubled parts of the world. 

 Senator LAWRIE (Queensland) 1.4.54]- I shall confine my remarks in the debate on this urgency motion mainly to the position in Queensland because 1 am not fully aware of the laws in other States of Australia. In Queensland there is no closed season on kangaroos and no restriction on shooting. The Queensland Government claims ownership of all native fauna on behalf of the Crown and usually charges royalty on skins or other produce of that fauna. Private ownership of any of our native animals is not allowed in Queensland.I should like to point out also that the Commonwealth Government has no power over our native animals. That is not mentioned in the Constitution in any form. The only power that the Commonwealth Government has is in relation to trade over the border between the States in kangaroo meal and skins and in the export of those commodities. 
As the control of kangaroos conies within the jurisdiction of the State, border hopping becomes a serious business. Kangaroos could become a pest in one State and before action could be taken to reduce their numbers they could take advantage of section 92 of the Constitution and hop the border. The first complete description of the kangaroos in Australia was made by Captain Cook and the officers of his expedition. 
The description that they gave and took back to England was put away in the archives of that country. But when the First Fleet arrived 18 years later Cook's description did not fit any of the animals that were found in the area around Sydney or, as exploration extended, in any locality to which the European settlers went. It was generally believed at that time that Cook and his officers had made a big blue in this connection. lt was not until 60 or 80 years later, when European settlement spread to the area around Cooktown and the other northern parts of Australia, that the settlers found the animal that Cook had described - the unique kangaroo that lived in the far north of Australia. It is very unlike the grey and red kangaroos that we know in the vast areas of Australia. Apparently Cook's description was very accurate in respect of the animals of Cooktown but did not fit the others. Evidence is available that in the pre-European days the kangaroo population varied with the seasons from great numbers in good seasons to great mortality in droughts. The early Aboriginals hunted kangaroos for food. They had a habit of using fires or shutting off the water to kill large numbers of kangaroos. Even in those days this caused the unnecessary death of many kangaroos. 
Another interesting point is that the early explorers of the western plains country and the inland areas of eastern Australia made no mention of seeing any great numbers of kangaroos in those areas. But, with the coming of European settlement in those areas and the provision of many watering points, windmills, bores and flowing bore drains, the kangaroo population on the western plains and downs country built up greatly. There have probably been more kangaroos in some of those inland a reus in recent years than there were in preEuropean settlement days. 
Despite what has been said to the contrary, a kangaroo does eat and damage more grass than does a sheep, and the uncontrolled expansion of kangaroo numbers could seriously damage the pastoral industry. But I want to make this clear: I agree that there is a necessity for protection, although not a complete blanket protection. If some sort of co-operation can be achieved between the Federal and State authorities for fauna protection on a national basis, subject to that type of fauna not becoming a pest, then I am all for it and will support it. 
There is great variation in the numbers of kangaroos in our country, due to economic conditions, shooters and the value of the skins and meat of the animal. High prices for skins and some slackening of employment cause many more shooters to operate; whereas full employment and low prices for skins mean less destruction of kangaroos. This has been the position for as long as I can remember. 
 I intimated to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  that I proposed to move an amendment to the motion for the third reading in these terms: 
At end of motion add the words:'but the Senate expresses the view that the Government should consider as soon as possible the complete elimination of Federal estate duty'. 
I do not wish to speak at any great length. This amendment has been prompted by views expressed in the course of the second reading debate, in which it was agreed that the amendments in the Bill provided for an amelioration of the situation but there was an expression of opinion that the tax should be eliminated altogether. I believe that it is good for the Senate, as a States House, to put on formal record its views on this matter. We have duplication in this tax. It is levied by the States and the Commonwealth. Apart from the intrinsic merit of the matter itself, I believe that the Senate should express a view against the continued imposition of Federal estate duty when it is also being imposed by the States. For that reason I commend to the Senate the amendment to the motion for the third reading, which I will now move. 
I  take  it that I will close the debate if I speak  now? 
 I am staggered at the response of the Australian Labor Party- 
 I am sorry. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Byrne's amendment)  be added. 
This Bill is one of a series of pieces of legislation of this type which have particular application to the rural community. Although it is in a particularly limited and somewhat technical field, its very presentation highlights again the difficulties that are continuously occurring and reoccurring in the rural sector of the economy. The Bill deals with the problem that faces the primary producer as a result of the incidence not only of Federal estate duty but also of State duty imposed for the same purpose on death, namely, the duplication of debt and the consequences to capital assets that have been laboriously built up, more particularly in the light of declining prices and the inability to find the necessary money for payment of duty when it becomes due. 
It is to be regretted that this type of legislation has to be presented at all. It seems to highlight the fact, as may well be mentioned at  a  later hour' today in another context, that the whole of the rural economy must be looked at and that whether- it is to be supported by this prop in this area, by a subsidy in some other area or by another prop in one industry and a longer and stronger prop in another part of the rural economy, surely, should be part of the one concept and should be considered as such. However, for the. benefit of primary producers, who have gone through and are going through a particularly difficult experience for a period that seems to have no immediate prospect of early termination, the Government has seen fit to protect the assets of the man on the land from the necessity of sale and departure from the hands that created them in order to enable him to pay Federal estate duty. 
There may be some thought that the Commonwealth Government could vacate this field altogether. It seems most unfortunate that this is another illustration of a duplication of power under which duties or imposts are presented by the Commonwealth and State governments in the same field. Undoubtedly, with each trying to exact its share and what it is able to obtain, the exaction falls all the more seriously on the poor person who has to pay. Undoubtedly, it would be better if the Commonwealth could find it possible to vacate this field and leave it to the States, in their wisdom, to impose such taxes if they elect to - if this type of tax is desirable at all. 

 - Senator Prowse suggests by interjection that a tax of this nature is not desirable - if any tax is desirable - and that it is indefensible not only in Commonwealth hands but also in State hands. However, faced with the position that we accept the principle incorporated in the Bill - that we should try to preserve rural assets in the hands of those who created them and not require them to be sold on a falling market for the payment of duty which is in respect of assets built up in times of greater prosperity but which becomes payable in times of depreciated prosperity and is required to be paid when money is no longer available except by the sale of assets - and that we accept that that principle should be applied at least at this time in the rural economy, then it is a matter of examining whether these principles as carried into operation in this Bill are adequate and whether they really perform the task that the legislation purports to perform. 
The first concept, as I see the position, is. to preserve the/small rural estate. If that is given priority in this legislation, I believe that it is highly desirable. We live in a community in which there is a gradual flight from the land and in which the old and very satisfactory type of rural settlement - that is, the small family farm with the diversified rural economy - is disappearing. We have noticed rather alarming developments in Australia over the last few years. My colleague  Senator McManus,  on occasions, has highlighted the situation in relation to the wheat industry, in which people who are not historical or traditional farmers, who have no intention of becoming historical or traditional farmers but who use money accumulated in industrial activities because of benefits that are immediately available really for the support of those genuinely and traditionally engaged in wheat production or other forms of agriculture, buy land and then apply to it all the resources of modern engineering and attract all the benefits that were intended to go to quite a different type of producer. 
That in turn will endanger the future and the existence of the small farmer, because ultimately the subsidies will become heavier and heavier and there will be a reluctance on the part of the taxpayers to pay and a reluctance on the part of any government to accept the political responsibility of constantly voting those subsidies. This' is a very bad position in a country of our size. Our people .are fleeing to the cities and more and more condensing on the littoral around the Australian coast. If this Bill has some effect in the direction of remedying that position and preserving the small farm, it has a great deal to be said for it. However, the mere injection of this principle at this stage and at this level may not, in all justice to the farmer, remedy the situation very considerably. 
I know that various farmer groups, more particularly in Victoria, have sought a restoration of the position that existed in 1948 or thereabouts. If there was to be a restoration of the rebates and exemptions that were then available in the rural sector, or perhaps generally, the provisions would have to be very much more generous than those made in this Bill. In relation to small rural properties the level of exemption from duty is being lifted from S20.000 to $24,000 or, when the estate does not go to a spouse, from $10,000 to $12,000. Candidly, that seems to be a quite insignificant increase. 
I have not asked the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson),  who represents the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  for the assistance of his officers in taking out figures on what that increase represents in terms of expected diminution in revenue. But I could not imagine that the diminution in revenue would be so great as to offset the great and corresponding benefits that would accrue to the small rural producers who would be embraced if the exemption were extended from $24,000 to $30,000 or, speaking in overall terms, from the present level of $20,000 to $30,000. 
The other night the Minister very kindly put the services of an officer at my disposal. A quick calculation was made on a suggested figure of $40,000. I must say that the amount involved was quite considerable. It was $6m, or something of that nature. I have not asked for other figures to be taken out. In fairness to the officer concerned, I must say that the calculation was made in a short time. 
 I think, on a rough calculation, it involved $6m or something like that. I would not like to be quoted on that figure. Whether there would be a proportionate diminution in revenue if the figure was $30,000 I do not know. I understand from an honourable senator that the taxation revenue derived from this source is about $69m in a financial year. So a reduction by $6m would not be considerable. The reduction that would be brought about by an increase in the level of exemption to $30,000 or even less than that might well warrant embarkation upon that generosity so that more small primary producers could be brought within this provision. In other words, if we are to do this, let us do it with some measure of effectiveness and not merely as a gesture which will not be of measurable value. Let us do something that can be measured in terms of the number of small properties that will be saved from the auctioneer's hammer, from being sold merely to pay federal estate duties. 
In view of the buoyant condition of the national revenue I believe that this type of tax, and the exaction of this type of tax to the very limit, are possibly one of the most undesirable courses that a revenue producing authority could pursue. In times of national stringency or for other purposes we might properly embark upon a tax of this nature. I am not speaking only in relation to primary producers but of the incidence of this tax generally. In times of national economic buoyancy, particularly when the revenues from direct taxation on incomes feeling the consequences of inflation are rising considerably and by percentages every year, when there is an area of conflict between the Commonwealth and the States and when the States are gradually being driven back to more and more unpalatable and undesirable forms of taxation, I believe that the States at least should not be deprived, u it is considered to be a fair tax in this field, of their opportunity to impose it if they accept the responsibility for the continuance of the imposition of a tax of this kind. It does seem in this situation that for the Commonwealth to persist in this field is not only ungenerous, but in the context of the Commonwealth's position and the financial situation of the States it is also highly undesirable and to some extent almost indefensible. 
In the more particular aspects of this matter, the conditions precedent to the advantage that may be taken of the provisions of this Bill that relieve the primary producer require certain things; for example over the period of the year of the death and the 4 years preceding the death, at least 50% of income must have been produced from rural sources. Again, that is an extension of some concession to primary producers. But again we look at the reality of the provision. If the object of the provision is to help people who have been affected by drought we might well consider the position in Queensland. In some areas of Queensland for a period of 5 years or more some primary producers have had virtually no income at all from their properties. Originally some income may have been obtained from the sale of stock and that may have been averaged over a period of 5 years, but apart from that some primary producers have had no income at all. Graziers and farmers have been obliged to gain their income from other sources. In the preponderance of cases, for 5 years such people could not have complied with this condition because they have had little or no income from primary production. To those people this provision will be of no value at all. 
Another case worth considering is that of a man who goes on to a property and dies within a period of less than 5 years. He may be killed on the property through an unfortunate accident. In such a case his estate would be disentitled to the provisions of the amendment. In those circumstances it might have been preferable not to include in the Bill anything as specific as a time period of that character. It may have been preferable to include a general provision that if a person was substantially or predominantly engaged in rural production in the preceding 5 years or some such period, he would be eligible. Perhaps that would give a discretion to the administering authority who might in the particular circumstances allow eligibility to a person to whom, while it is technically available and looks encouraging, it would in fact otherwise be denied. Merely to write the principle of this Bill into legislation but not to give it the effectiveness which would make it particularly welcome to primary producers is, I think, an opportunity lost by the Government to do better what at least has been done quite well in the Bill. 
Other matters could well have been, the subject of minor amendments. I refer, for example, to the cost of the voluntary winding up of a private company, which is not to be added in. Such a provision might well have been included because very often it is a costly exercise. I make the plea that it is very difficult to keep selective one sector of the economy for special treatment in relation to taxation measures. It is not at all easy. It is regrettable that a sector of the community is in such a position as is the farming community that this particular solicitude has to be extended to it. I have said that this form of taxation is not particularly good or defensible. The idea of giving it selective operation for certain people is not wholly defensible, justifiable as it may be in the circumstances. We have particular solicitude for primary producers  in  this difficult period through which they are passing. 
The Commonwealth might well take  into  account the general situation and seriously consider the abandonment of this field  of  taxation. If that were  to  be done and if  the  revenue could permit it, I would hope  that  the result would not be an equal exaction on the part of the States. It would be unfortunate if the purpose of that abandonment of that field of taxation by the Commonwealth was defeated by the imposition  of  equal taxation in that field by the States. Nevertheless I am sure that the States recognise that there are desirable limits to  the  imposition of this type of tax by the States. If the States were the only taxing authority in that field I am sure they would not bring the level of taxation up to the level attained by the present duplication of the tax by  the  States and the Commonwealth. 
I turn now to the amendment proposed by  Senator Wilkinson  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. It seems to indicate that there is nothing in the Bill that in any way ameliorates the present conditions. Obviously that is not quite correct and  I  think that the word 'adequately' might profitably be inserted in the proposed amendment. I think much of the purport of this Bill is that if does recognise, if not expressly at least by implication, some  of  the effects of inflation, the duplication  of  estate duties and such things. They are by implication mentioned in the provisions  of  the Bill. 
The amendment states that the Bill is inadequate as it fails to recognise certain matters. I suggest that that is not quite correct because in many respects it recognises and accepts some of the concerns which are expressed in the proposed amendment. I suggest to the Opposition that  it  might well think of moving that the Bill is inadequate as it fails adequately to recognise those matters set out in the proposed amendment. I commend that thought to  the  Opposition, because the Bill certainly does attempt to do something to ameliorate present conditions. I commend to  the  Government, perhaps for consideration  on  another occasion, the other points I have raised. 
This is the second occasion on which the motion presented by  Senator McManus  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party has been discussed in the period set aside for general business. In view of the fact that  Senator McManus  has addressed himself to this at some length, that it is so important, that there are other honourable senators who desire an opportunity to address themselves to the substance of the motion and as we have at this stage only a few minutes more than I hour to discuss it, I do not think it would be appropriate for me to speak unduly long and occupy time when others, particularly members of the Australian Country Party, would wish to express their views on a matter so important as this. Nevertheless there are some considerations which T think I should place before the Senate. More particularly I wish to deal with the alternate propositions to that presented by the DLP which emanated from the Government and from the Australian Labor Party Opposition. 
As we approach the question of the whole pattern of rural industry in Australia and go through the more important segments of the industry, we are struck immediately by one consideration - there is virtually a crisis or a developing crisis or a sporadic crisis in every segment of rural production. If we consider, in the first place, the wheal industry we find from day to day and from week to week developing crises which are dampened down in one way or another, by the introduction of quotas at one point and then by production subsidies at another point. As a particular crisis is dampened down in whole or in part with only a limited degree of effectiveness, we find a crisis then develops in some other area of the rural economy. We find a crisis developing in the wool industry, and the marketing situation and the propriety and wisdom of the present marketing system or some alternate marketing system then becomes a matter of critical importance. 
Then we find that attempts are made over the whole spectrum of the rural economy to try to give some relief in one way or another, whether by the provision of differential interest rates or by some other means. Only this afternoon we saw a further recognition, by the passage through the Senate of the Estate Duty Assessment Bill, of the critical position in rural industries and a desire to handle situations which require the sale of rural properties to pay assessed federal estate duties. All these things are symptomatic of the continuing crisis which ripples through the rural economy, developing at crisis points from one moment to another, and to which temporary and sporadic remedies are applied, lt is in view of this situation and because of the prospect that there may be no immediate method of doing anything to remedy it that  Senator McManus  has put this motion before the Senate. 
We are of the opinion that the temporary palliatives have obviously had their day, that no success has been achieved, and that the problem is so extensive and so deep that it is impossible to consider any part of it in isolation and that it must be considered in expanse and in depth over the whole of the rural sector of the economy. Let us look at the situation as it exists in various segments of rural industry. I do not wish to rely excessively on statistics or analyses; but I feel that in order to justify my propositions 1 should present some evidence, first of all, of the expanded production that is causing a situation of concern and, secondly, of the prospects of this expanded production being economically sold with returns to the nation and returns to the farmer. Beyond that I hope not to rely unduly upon statistics which will underline and stress the fact. 
In 1964-65 wheat was produced from 17.9 million acres. In 1969-70 that figure is expected lo rise to 25.2 million acres. All the information that I will quote and all the figures that I will cite are from the Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economies', which is produced by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. In the area of wool, the average annual production from 1956-57 to 1958-59 was 1,530 million lb and the estimated production for 1969-70 is 2,023 million lb. The production of wheat has increased from an average annual production from 1956-57 to 1958-59 of 149 million bushels to an estimated production for 1969-70 of 396 million bushels. 
The production of beef and veal has risen from an average annual- production from 1956-57 to 1958-59 of 838,000 tons to an estimated production for 1969-70 of 1, 010,000 tons. 
Those are tremendous increases in production. Good as they are, they are completely useless unless an adequate market can be found for them and unless an assurance of consumption can be given to the primary producers who have committed their capital and their own physical efforts to the development of their farms and the production of rural products of this nature. It is against the background of this extraordinary increase in production that we must now make some assessment of the market prospects for its disposal. Again I quote from this paper- 
Yes, it is the 'Quarterly Review of Agricultural Economics' for this year, according to my recollection. I will check that, but I am pretty certain of it. 
 I cannot say that I have. The figures that I gave were average productions in the period from 1956-57 to 1958-59. That is given as the base in this paper. If we take the figures for the period from 1966-67 to 1968-69, wool production was 1,828 million lb and is expected to rise to 2,023 million lb in 1969-70; wheat production was 429 million bushels and is expected to go down to 396 million bushels in 1969-70. Nevertheless, this staggering increase in production is causing the problem of surpluses, is attracting the concern of the Government and is becoming the concern of the taxpayers as they are asked to underpin the tremendous surpluses by the provision of subsidies or in some other way. 
As I was saying, it is against the background of this tremendous production that we must now assess the market prospects and whether there is likely to be any change in world demand or in domestic demand which can in some way absorb this increased production and in some way justify its continuance and the dedication of people to the production of these enormous quantities from these increasing acreages. This paper states: 
Since rural output has increased by around 3i% a year over the past decade or so, and since domestic consumption of rural products has risen by little more than 2% a year over the same period, it follows that a growing proportion of rural production has become available for marketing overseas. 
Then reference is made to a graph, and the paper goes on to say: 
This shows that in the 10 years up to 1963-64, exports rose faster than production but since that year the rate of increase in exports has slackened while production has continued to rise. Much of the higher production has been in the form of wheat and the shrinking of world trade in wheat in the past 2 years has resulted in substantial increases in stocks. Thus the immediate prospect is for a greater growth in the relative importance of the home market for wheat and some other products. 
The paper goes on to discuss the relative importance of domestic and export markets. Then there is a table setting out Australian rural exports as a proportion of production over certain years. I do not propose to read that. The paper then states: 
As in other countries with relatively high living standards, aggregate consumption of farm products per person has been rising in Australia only very slowly, the increase over the past 10 years or so averaging 0.1% a year. The expansion in the domestic market for farm products has thus been almost entirely due to an increase in population of just over 2% a year over the past decade, and there is little prospect for a greater rate of change in the immediate future. . . . 
While food consumption in the aggregate has not been very responsive to changes in income or in the general level of food prices, changes in relative prices of various products together with changes in tastes and the rise in average real disposable income have produced changes in the composition of aggregate consumption with increases in some products being more or less balanced by decreases in others. . . . 
In general, as living standards in a country rise there is a shift in consumption away from cereals, fats and oils to foods of greater protein value. Further, increases in disposable income lead to demands for better quality foods and more packaging and other services incorporated in food products at the retail level. 
The point that is being made is that increased consumption in the developed countries will not mean a massive increase in quantum. It will mean merely a change in the pattern of consumption to different types of rural products. It will mean not necessarily an aggregate change in the volume of price but a change in the type of food that will be consumed. We cannot expect that Australian consumption will rise greatly and. as the standard of living rises in the developed countries which have been our main areas of overseas consumption, according to this paper that will not lead to a tremendous increase in the quantum of consumption: it will lead only to a change in the pattern of. consumption. Therefore, from the point of view of an increase in the consumption of our total production there may be no substantial alteration. The paper goes on to say: 
Apart from the rather encouraging Japanese market potential, it appears from this brief survey of factors affecting demand in world markets that Australia cannot expect any immediate improvement in export prospects for the majority of her export products, although prospects are rather better for a greater demand for beef and coarse grains. At the same lime Australia's export performance depends not only on total international demand but also on the share which she is able to achieve; moreover even a small proportional rise in demand in the more populous countries, if unmatched by increased local production, may represent a quantity very large relative to Australian exports and probably large relative to total world trade in that product. 
 I would say that it has considerable depth because it is now a very prominent feature of developing countries that, with the green revolution and the selfsufficiency now being striven for and obtained in many countries, there is not the demand for our primary products that we were expecting or hoping for. In other words, there has been an air of: disappointment following tremendous expectation, lt seemed on the ordinary application of a rather simple economic principle that we had a supply and they had a demand, lt was unlikely that the developing countries could quickly reach a level of self-sufficiency and that there lay our great potential market. Unfortunately, history has not proved that anticipation to be valid and today we have to look elsewhere. Apart from such rural products as we sell to Japan and some underdeveloped countries, or give away under atd programmes, the main market is still the developed countries. But that market is subject to the very limitation that even population increases in those countries result only in changed patterns of consumption and not in a changed quantum of consumption. The review goes on to examine the export markets. It states: 
Even though there has been little growth in the aggregate volume of rural exports for 5 or 6 years, export markets still absorb rather more than half Australia's rural output, and almost 60% of all exports are of rural origin. The prospects for rural industries thus depend to a large extent on trends in existing and potential export outlets. 
In assessing export prospects, it seems appropriate to classify the markets into  2  broad groups of countries - developed and developing. The developed countries, which take at least 70% of Australian rural exports, are characterised by high standards of living and of food consumption. Additional increases in income induce relatively little expansion in consumption of food, even though, as in Australia, changes occur in consumption patterns. Thus total consumption tends to rise only slightly faster than population, and in most of these countries the rate nf population increase is relatively low. 
We have established the position by a simple recitation, without ils being unduly long, from that authoritative analysis, that we have these tremendous increases in production, that our traditional markets are no longer able to give us the expanded consumption that our production would warrant and hope for, and that we may be forced into the position of changing our patterns and types of production: to expand some areas and to shrink some others in order to meet the demand logically and economically. In those circumstances the Democratic Labor Party has produced its proposition in these terms, as moved by  Senator McManus  in his motion: 
That the Senate is of opinion that a Royal Commission should be appointed to inquire into the present condition and future prospects of primary industry in Australia. 
It is obvious that any attempt to isolate one primary industry, to consider it in isolation, and to attempt to diagnose its troubles and to prescribe a remedy - to do all that successfully in the whole spectrum of the rural economy - is fated to failure, lt just cannot be done. That is why we of the DLP say that we must have a complete analysis of the rural sector in the Australian economy. 
 I will develop it in this way: If we take a particular industry - for instance, the dairy industry - we find that it has certain problems, lt has problems associated with a diminishing market, particularly on the British market. It has prospects of uneconomic production at the present cost level in certain areas of Australia that may not be considered particularly appropriate for dairying as against other areas. It already is the recipient of price support. Already a dairy farm conversion scheme is proposed under which primary producers in the dairy industry are being invited to abandon that industry and to divert their resources and interests to alternative agricultural pursuits - perhaps to raise vealers or something of that character - with financial assistance. 
The scheme envisages the amalgamation of dairy farms into a unit that may produce different rural products; again vealers or something of that kind. But the economic condition of the dairy industry cannot be investigated within that industry. For example, it is tied up with the whole question of the Australian cost structure, because whatever is the cost level, that is the input of cost, into the dairy industry, every other industry also has its input of cost, and these things must be considered together. It is quite possible, whether you consider the dairy industry, the wheat industry or the wool industry, that you ought to consider the tariff proposals of the Australian Commonwealth in relation to all those industries and not those peculiar to the dairy industry, or to the wheat industry, but over the totality of the rural sector. 
We must remember that the whole pattern and significance of the rural sector in the Australian economy has changed vastly in the last 20 or 30 years. Those of us who have been here for some years will from time to time have been called upon to deal with problems in relation to the rural sector, particularly in the period when it was the most significant export sector of Australian production. It was the basis on which the whole balance of our accounts rested in the international monetary field. We know that. But we also know that in more recent years because of all these problems and the discovery of minerals the scene has changed. Our mineral production is not in the rural sector, but it is primary production. Our mineral exports now provide a great deal of our export income. We also know that in relation to the balance of payments the import of capital has been responsible in large measure for allowing us to establish and maintain our international credits. The rural industry has lost in Australian thinking a certain degree of significance, and because that is so it is quite possible that its real difficulties may not be properly appreciated as it ceases to be of such critical and fundamental importance to the stability of the Australian economy. It can no longer be given the regard which it enjoyed in the past. 
I feel that in some measure that is the position which is developing. But whether my speculation is correct or not, it may at least be said that the rural industries no longer occupy the place in the Australian scene that they did. To try now to present them as if they do and to support them in a sporadic and from time to time ad hoc manner as we do - plugging a hole in this industry, applying a plaster in that industry, adopting a temporary remedy in another - obviously is not going to be the solution. 
I do not wish to occupy the time of the Senate for too long. Other honourable senators wish to speak in this debate. Amendments have been moved from various quarters and I think 1 should make some observations about them. The whole thinking of the Democratic Labor Party is that whether our propositions are correct does not depend merely on assessing the condition of one industry, but on really assessing the condition of that industry in relation to the whole rural sector, the tariff and taxation policies of Australia, and all those other things which influence the economy of any part of Australian life. More particularly in this context, it is an exercise that can be undertaken only by the most thorough and most embracing investigation by an appropriate body. 
Perhaps not. Unfortunately, in the rural industries, majority views are not always accepted by the industry concerned. As they say, a majority has no virtue except that of effectiveness, and in the rural industries it often does not have even that virtue. I have noticed that. As a matter of fact one of the difficulties is to find how to determine the majority view. Where is the electoral roll for the industry? Who are those who are going to express an opinion or be entitled to express an opinion? That being the case, it seems impossible that individual industries can be expected to or will succeed in getting a policy which they can present as a solution for their own industry. Even if any other industry were able to do it, I do not think that would answer the question. 
That is right. It occurs to me that an industry is most likely to discover a solution to its immediate problem. An industry is not likely to embark on a deep investigation as to the ultimate solution of the problems of that industry against a background of all rural industries in this country. That is why, when, the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  with some fond hope, presents his Government amendment he is rather trespassing upon the course of history and is. hoping that history may reverse itself and that what has been found to be impossible in the past may, by some miracle, be achieved on this occasion. 
I was coming to that. That is one of the arguments. I notice that in our resolution we referred to 2 aspects, the long range and the short range view of the rural industries. That argument could have some minor validity on a short range assessment of the rural industries. I suppose that  Senator Greenwood  speaks with some measure of cynicism, because of the area of the profession in which he operates. But surely, even allowing that perhaps a royal commission, so far as it might embark on these investigations, might find it difficult to give a short range solution, nevertheless under the terms of reference some temporary alleviation might be recommended as an intermediate proposal. We say that what is required in Australia is an investigation of the total structure of the rural industries. I am disappointed that the Minister in presenting this view on behalf of the Government is still not prepared to accept that the whole of the rural sector requires an investigation in depth and that all industries are asking for something of that character. I am disappointed that we are proceeding on this path along which we buttress up one industry and then, finding another industry drunkenly leaning to its side, we try to buttress that up. Ultimately the taxpayer who is required to find the money will not stand for that. It is going to continue to create this tremendous area of uncertainty in the rural industries, which is grossly unfair to the farmer, which is leading to a situation of frustration, disappointment and concern, quite apart from which it involves a tremendous waste of the physical and financial resources of this country. 
In the proposition that we present we are not dealing with this in isolation, as if this were some magnificent concept which has been conceived by us as something unique. We would not be the first country in the world which has seen the need for this and has attempted to embark on some sort of investigation. I refer to what has been done iri at least one other country. Before doing sb I should like to refer to the other amendment which has been moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. This amendment contemplates a reference to the Australian Agricultural Council. I cannot believe that this could be really a serious proposition coming from the official Opposition. I cannot believe that in any sense the Opposition would seek in this Council a body that would find a solution to this tremendous problem. The Australian Agricultural Council, as we know, consists of State Ministers for Agriculture and the Commonwealth Minister for Primary Industry. We know that this body meets twice a year and that its functions are limited. I quote now from an official document which delineates its functions. After mentioning that it has a standing committee, the document states: 
The Australian Agricultural Council has no powers vested in it but it provides a forum for the States and the Commonwealth on all matters pertaining to agriculture. It may and does make recommendations to governments on policy issues. Usually, but not invariably, such recommendations are accepted. Despite its lack of formal authority, the Australian Agricultural Council serves a useful purpose i'n co-ordinating State and Commonwealth activities in agriculture, particularly in administrative matters such as plant quarantine, and in securing agreement on marketing schemes that require Commonwealth and State collaboration. 
Is this the body to undertake this investigation? 
 I realise that. Is this the body that you are prepared to endow with this tremendous investigation, a body that obviously is only in a minor degree  a  co-ordinating agricultural activity between the Commonwealth and the States. There are 2 other documents to which I want to refer. I refer to the proposition which came from the Federal Rural Committee of the Libera! Party. It is completely dissatisfied with the proposal which came from the Minister and the Government that it should bc left to industries themselves to initiate these investigations. In that part of the report which deals with the role of government the document states: 
In view of the current situation in rural  industries  where there is evidence of a steady decline of confidence, it is essential for government to assume a positive role of leadership. 
It should not be left to the industries. The document continues: 
In exercising its role, government must be aware that it has 2 problems; the first being of an agricultural and economic 'nature, and the second  a  sociological problem relating to those who have to change from their present form of rural enterprise. 
In dealing with the first of these problems, it is essential that Government has before it the best possible information and advice. This can come in part from industry organisations, but there is  a  need for an independent body to provide such information and advice. To this end consideration should be given to the establishment of a Rural Industries Board. 
Very well; that may be an alternative to a royal commission. It may have some of the strength that a royal commission lacks. It may have weaknesses that a royal commission does not attract. But at least the Committee of the Liberal Party is sure of 2 things: That you cannot leave it to industry to initiate these things and that Government must take an initiating and positive role; and secondly, that there must be an independent body to make an investigation over the whole spectrum. An honourable senator says that we want lawyers for this purpose. There are all sorts of technical observers to assist a commission, such as we see with the sugar industry commission in Queensland and in other commissions. But that is the attitude of the Liberal Party. I would expect that our resolution might well attract the support of members of the Liberal Party if this matter is put to a vote, as well it might be, because obviously the views of the Government do not satisfy them. They are diametrically opposed to the approach of the Government and are in consonance with the principles embodied in our resolution. 
Finally I refer to this investigation of the whole structure of the rural economy. In doing so I refer to what is called the New Mansholt Plan. The report states: 
On 10 December last,  Dr Sicco  Mansholt, the Vice-President of the European Commission in charge of agriculture, presented to the Council of Ministers a new plan for the future of European agriculture under the provocative title 'Agriculture 1980'. This new Mansholt plan is one of the most far-reaching initiatives of the Commission since the Common Market was set up in  1958. Its consequences go far beyond agricultural policy; social and fiscal policies, the principals of proprietary rights, relations between developing countries and rich countries, and regional and industrial policies of the EEC countries are also involved. 
The short reference states: 
The conclusion that one can draw from these figures is, according to  Dr Mansholt,  that the main element of European agricultural policy, i.e., the guaranteed minimum prices for nearly all agricultural products produced within the Community, has been introduced for social and not for economic reasons. Only a complete reform of the structure of the farms themselves can solve the problem of very intensive production by the farmer to get a minimum income from the guaranteed prices, while, at the same time, consumption lags far behind production, so that the Community has to pay for enormous surplus stocks. 
There is in the European Economic Community the type of problem that is facing the Australian agricultural economy. It is a problem that  Dr Mansholt  says has to be handled by a total investigation at the very base level of what is now, in the modern cliche, called the infrastructure of the rural economy. Until we do that and face that proposition in Australia we will have these spasmodic attempts to plug a hole in this industry and a hole in that industry, causing frustration and concern, tremendous political differences, great concern and worry among the agricultural community and even greater concern to economists and to those in charge of the Australian Treasury. For these reasons I commend the proposal of the Democratic Labor Party to the Senate. I think that the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party is completely useless in the modern context and can do nothing to overcome the problem. Obviously the proposition presented by the Minister for Air may attract the consensus of opinion particularly among those who support Country Party policies, but obviously the proposition does not find any attraction among the Liberal members of the coalition Government who see the necessity for a proposition such as that in the terms which we have enunciated. For that reason, with confidence I commend our proposal to the Senate. 
The important legislation that is now before the Senate has had an extremely unhappy history. It has had an unhappy history in contemplation, in negotiation and in the confusion among various sections of the medical profession, but particularly in the incredible manner in which finally it was presented to this Parliament. It was presented in the House of Representatives in circumstances in which, although a major Bill with major consequences, it was guillotined through that chamber on a very strict time schedule, lt is, more incredibly, presented in this chamber in circumstances which particularly prompt me to rise to support  Senator McManus  in his contribution in this debate. I, and other members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party did not intend, because of the importance of this legislation and the desirability of its principles being considered, to speak specifically to the principles of the Bill which  Senator McManus  adequately covered but, as I say, a situation has developed which makes it important that the Democratic Labor Party should be heard at this stage of the debate. 

 Senator McManus, on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party, welcomed the Bill in that it marked a substantial advance in the provision of health and medical benefits and treatment for the Australian public. He pointed out, however, that there was a situation as yet unresolved and one which if properly resolved and written into this legislation could embark it upon a course which would make for much happier operation and would virtually guarantee the success of the legislation during its lifetime of operation. The proposal of the Democratic Labor Party is that in view of the fact that there is still a difference of opinion in branches of the medical profession, between general practitioners and the other branches of the profession, this legislation should be delayed until the holding of a most significant meeting which the Australian Medical Association has convened in a last endeavour to reconcile the varying views and which could well result in a common proposal finally emerging for consideration by the Government and for incorporation in the legislation. The meeting is being convened for 1st, 2nd and 3rd June. That is only about 10 or 12 days from the present time, and I, and the Democratic Labor Party, can see no reason why this legislation should not be held over until that most important meeting is held. A decision might well emerge from the meeting which would be welcomed by the Parliament and incorporated in the legislation. We are at a loss to know why the Government, which has set the mystical date of 1st June for introduction of the scheme, is not prepared to accept our proposal. 
We are even more amazed that the Australian Labor Party seems to join common forces with the Government to ensure the precipitate passage of the legislation in this chamber, the Labor Party having protested about the same procedure being adopted in another place. We have been unable to persuade members of the Labor Party, as yet, that the appropriate, proper and prudent thing is that this legislation should abide about another fortnight, after years and years of consideration and months and months of negotiation, until this final opportunity is given to the Australian Medical Association to present to this Parliament a scheme which can be embodied in the legislation, lt is for that reason that I rise at this stage to draw attention to certain aspects of the nature of the passage of the Bill through the Senate. 
The Australian Labor Party has presented an amendment in this place to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. It suggests the establishment of a national health commission. We have proposed an amendment that the further stages after the second reading stage be delayed until a decision is made by the meeting of the Medical Association and that decision can be discovered. But tonight in this place we have been presented with a list of 30 substantial amendments from the official Opposition going to the very heart and nature of many proposals in the health legislation. We know that in another place amendments in great numbers were also produced. 'We are not represented in anoother place. We did not have the amendments before us1 and, as I understand it, these amendments come to this place, if substantially the same in substance, different in form from the amendments which were presented in another place. The Democratic Labor Party is now asked to consider 30 amendments at virtually no notice. I am not altogether blaming the Australian Labor Party for the belated circulation of these amendments. It may have had certain mechanical difficulties. 
I understand that, but as a matter of fact, these 30 amendments were presented to the Democratic Labor Party, and to other honourable senators in this place, possibly only 2 hours ago. There is no way in which these amendments - many of them of very great substance and going to the fundamental texture of the National Health Act - can be considered adequately by our Party. 
Or by anyone, as  Senator Turnbull  suggests. If these amendments are the same in substance as those presented in the House of Representatives, then at least it can be said that the amendments no doubt were considered at the Party meetings of the 2 parties represented in that place. We have not had a Party meeting to consider these amendments at all. Yet we are now asked, if we proceed immediately to the Committee stages, to consider the amendments and to give a deliberative vote on them. This is the position facing a Party such as ours which as a matter of fact has a significant mathematical position in this chamber and whose vote can be significant on these issues. What is the Party to do? We are not dealing with minor technical amendments. On a quick glance through them, there is, for example, and amendment that goes to the repeal of a certain section in the principal Act which the Government now proposes to amend. An amendment of the Australian Labor Party is to discard the amendment and even to repeal provisions in the principal Act. So far as I can see, that type of thing runs through many of these amendments. These are substantial amendments. The fact that the Australian Labor Party sees the necessity to present so many amendments to an amending Bill, which is the most substantial amendment to the Act for many years, indicates the significance that the Labor Party attaches to them, and it is a significance that neither we nor the Government can afford to overlook. 
I ask: Does the Government concede the difficulty of our position? Does it concede the right - not only the right, but the responsibility - of the 4 members of the Democratic Labor Party, whose vote may be decisive, to examine all these amendments in detail? I would suggest that the Australian Labor Party might review its attitude to the amendment we have proposed. We have proposed an amendment that contemplates the delay of the next stage of the Bill for a precise reason. It could well be delayed for reasons in addition to that, and those are the reasons I have now advanced to the Senate, such as that there are substantial amendments which must be considered. The Australian Labor Party therefore might well have a second thought on our amendment and seize the opportunity to support that amendment because that would enable its own amendments to be considered. We could do 3 things in relation to these amendments. We could abstain from voting. That, in a sense, would be the logical thing to do. We have amendments which we have not had time to consider. They are important amendments. It is difficult for us to arrive at a decisive conclusion on them and it would not be expected that we would be able to do it. What are we to do? Are we merely to oppose the amendments in order to preserve the status quo? Would that be the logical thing to do? Or are we to support the amendments? More logically, would it not be that we should abstain totally from voting on them? In view of the mathematical distribution of numbers in the Senate, abstention from voting would, in effect, mean the carriage of the amendments and the defeat of any opposition by the Government to them. That is the third alternative course that may be available to us. But these are the courses that the Democratic Labor Party will have to consider and is considering at this stage. 
Only the other night in this place an amendment was circulated very late by the Democratic Labor Party to amend the Estate Duty Assessment Bill. We proposed an amendment on the third reading of the Bill. The Australian Labor Party complained that notification of the amendment came very late. It was inevitable that it would be late. The Labor Party said: 'This is an important matter. We should have time to consider it.' The difference between that position and this - and the Labor Party complained on that occasion - was that it was neither an operative amendment nor an operative request. It was only an amendment to indicate that the Senate felt the Government should look at the whole question of estate duty with a view to its elimination. That was all it was. The Australian Labor Party said: 'This is an important matter, we require more time', although within its own amendment the Labor Party set ils face against the duplication of the incidence of Federal and State estate duty, which it considered sufficiently important to protest about. These amendments are not pious resolutions. In terms of the forms available to the House they are requests. This being a money Bill we cannot amend but we can request. We can do something here that even the House of Representatives was unable to do. The House of Representatives was unable to consider these amendments in the form of an amendment because in that House their presentation had to be preceded by a message from his  Excellency  the Governor-General. That  system  does not operate in this place. The Senate can adopt these amendments as requests without requiring any prior message from the Governor-General. Therefore these are operative provisions which are now presented to us. 
For this reason we look for a response by the Australian Labor Party to our proposal that time should still be available to consider these amendments and generally to consider the Bill and more particularly to allow this latest, we hope, decision of the medical profession to be determined, announced, accepted by the Government and incorporated in the legislation. This is another reason why that course should be adopted and our amendment accepted. But failing that, if the Government is not prepared to concede the sheer cold propriety of some delay now in the passage of this legislation, there is another course available to us and we should attempt it.  Senator Turnbull,  who has supported the amendment of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, has suggested that if our amendment were defeated he would move in the Committee stage that the Committee forthwith report progress and ask leave to sit again on a later day or some days later. We would support such a proposal, and at least in that respect we would expect the cooperation of the Australian Labor Party if for no other purpose than that its own amendments could be considered adequately, not only by members of the Democratic Labor Party but also by all members of the Senate who have not as yet had the opportunity to consider them in detail. 
This is important legislation. We accept and we support the principle of the Bill. We are opposed to the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party against our own amendment, moved by  Senator McManus.  However, this kind of proposal is included in the general social policy of the Democratic Labor Party. We still think that the opportunity must not be lost. If this legislation can be presented to the nation with the realised expectation of the people themselves and with the goodwill and cooperation of the medical profession, its future history will be totally different from what it will be if it is virtually imposed on as yet a disorganised point of view of the medical profession but a point of view which may well be clarified and polarised within the next 10 days. It is absolutely indefensible that we should neglect the opportunity which still presents itself. The medical profession will be meeting on 1st, 2nd and 3rd June and probably will come to a decision which, had it been arrived at a fortnight before would have been incorporated in the legislation, but will then bc completely useless and worthless if the legislative opportunity has been neglected, perhaps for all time, to carry it into effect. 
Surely that will riot be the attitude of the Government or of the Senate. No good reason has been advanced why this proposal should not be accepted. The conference of the medical profession will take place on 1st, 2nd and 3rd June and the Parliament will be meeting at the end of that week. If a proposal came from that body it could be immediately carried into drafting, incorporated in the statute if it were acceptable and the Parliament would be available forthwith to deal with it. 
I believe that there is in this an implication more serious than might appear on the surface. Where we are dealing with medical practitioners insofar as, say, differential rebates are concerned in relation to specialists and general practitioners, 1 do not know that the Commonwealth attempts to come in and set up its own roll of eligibility. We accept the designation as it is laid down under State law. If a person is registered in a State as a medical practitioner I do not think, for the purposes of the application of this Act, that we should step in and say: We will regard so and so as a specialist, and so and so as a general practitioner in relation to their eligibility'. Apparently this clause attempts to do that in relation to dental practitioners. On the face of it that seems to be a very grave trespass into the field of State jurisdiction in the acceptance of the qualifications and registration of dental practitioners. 
I think that the implications of that are very much more serious than appears on the surface in relation to the deprivation which has been discussed by other honourable senators. After all, as  Senator Turnbull  has said, there is no reason to believe that dental practitioners do not have the same high ethical standards as have their fellows in the medical profession. In the medical profession, if a person purports to be a specialist (he Commonwealth accepts it on his registration and his own avowment of competency. Why should a dentist be put in any other and any different position? It would appear that the Commonwealth is reluctant to accept dentists under this Bill. Only on persuasion that they will set the roll of those competent in the field, and therefore delineate very severely the situation and the circumstances in which their practice can be accepted for the rebates available under the statute, will they be permitted in. Therefore 1 think that the Committee should be particularly jealous in protecting and accepting the registration given under State law and leave it to the ethical standards of the dental profession itself, and the individuals, to show whether they are competent in that field. If they purport to practice in that field they should be accepted by us and, accordingly, the rebates should apply. 

 Senator Dame IVY WEDGWOOD (Victoria) [9.13]  -  What disturbs me about this is that we are dealing not only with a general service and a specialist service; we are dealing also with a basic service. I wonder how a patient attending a dentist will know, in these circumstances, whether or not that dentist has been approved by the Director-General of Health. A patient could have the service and then be told that the dentist was not an approved dentist. That would lead to a great deal of, confusion. 
Did I understand the Minister to say that this procedure was recommended by the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs and the Nimmo Committee and that no doubt those recommendations are under active discussion and consideration between the Commonwealth and the States? Is that the position? 
And it is for that reason that the Minister suggests it would be untimely and premature to adopt the procedure suggested in the proposed amendment in anticipation of what may emerge from the discussions? 
I "eel that I should say something. Last night  Senator Anderson  did mention to me infernally that there was a possibility of this aking place. At that stage, apparently, the natter was under discussion in another quarter. This morning I was a little late and I did not have an opportunity even informally to convey even that informal information, if I was entitled to do so, to any other member of my party. I just mention this to  Senator Gair  who said that this was a matter that should have been disclosed to the Senate. In those circumstances I knew very informally that there was a possibility of this happening, but beyond that no other member of my party would have known anything at all about it formally. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the amendment. The arrangement between the medical profession and the Government is purely a contractual arrangement. Under the terms of it the 2 parties may renegotiate an agreement apparently when they agree to do so. There is no way, by legislation or by any discipline at all, in which people can be compelled to come to an agreement. They can be compelled to meet and to negotiate, but what emerges from such meeting or negotiation is not a matter that can be the subject, successfully anyhow, of an attempted imposition of discipline. Nevertheless, 1 think it very wise that there be embodied in the Bill the principle that the parties shall be required to attempt to renegotiate the contract or at least to review the contract at a slated interval of time. 
That is what it appears to say. 
Presuming that the intention that is of its terms - they may have to be more precisely studies - one of the difficulties that has accompanied the presentation and passage of this Bill is that it is presented in an atmosphere of gradual deterioration from the point of view of availability to the public of health services under the principal Act over the years. There has been a deterioration until frustration, concern and disappointment have arisen. That finally has resulted in the presentation of this complete health review embodied in the Bill. It is always wise that there should bc continuous scrutiny of any legislation so that great gaps will not open between the original intention of the Bill and its actual accomplishment as the years go by.  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin, the Minister in charge of the Bill, has said that de facto - as a matter of fact - there are meetings and there are periodic reviews of the agreement as a matter of arrangement between the interested parties. 
That is so, biennial reviews, and sometimes they have succeeded in having alterations made in schedules and things of that character. That is quite acceptable and quite desirable, but is there any reason why we should not buttress the Act by an explicit statutory provision that if, for any reason, the parties are not prepared even to meet to negotiate, much less actually to accomplish an agreement, they should come together, whatever the outcome of that might be? If de facto these things are happening, I can see no valid objection to the de facto situation being written into the statute. For that reason we think this would be a salutary provision and would not be out of consonance with the existing practice. If it were written into the statute, it would be a matter of course and not a matter of practice. We would come to the same conclusion. 
I was interested in  Senator Cant's  comments on the body to be accepted as the negotiating body, particularly in this concept of the pensioner medical service, in view of the fact that that service is not only substantially but exclusively provided by general practitioners. A specialist service is not available under the pensioner medical service. Therefore is the Australian Medical Association at the moment and in the present context of the differences within sections of the Association and between it and other organisations representing other general practitioners, any longer the body with whom negotiations should most appropriately be carried out? I can appreciate the difficulty of the Government. It is the same type of difficulty that arises in negotiations with primary industries. It is difficult ultimately to discover the representative body, if there is a representative body, and more particularly if there is to be a sole representative body, representing the interests of those who are involved in the situation. 
On a number of occasions during this debate mention has been made of ophthalmologists and others who, as a matter of practice, in the individual representations that we have received, have stated that apparently the AMA does not speak for the whole of the medical practitioners over the whole spectrum of the various categories of practice. As this concerns a particular category of practice, perhaps something will have to be reviewed by the Government as to the consultative body with whom negotiations are to be carried on because I have little doubt that when the AMA was accepted as a negotiating body it was possibly before the emergence of these more specialised groups within the medical profession and those who are concerned particularly with general practice. 
It could well be that in future the AMA may not be accepted by such segments within the medical profession. If that is so, considerable difficulty could perhaps be experienced in leaving the periodic negotiation to the chance and the goodwill of the 2 parties. Statutory imposition may then be more and more necessary in the developing context of the distribution of interests within the medical fraternity. I hope that does not happen. For all those reasons, I think there is justification for the amendment that has been presented and justification for our support of it. I should like to hear  Senator Greenwood  enlarge on the comment he made as to whether the intention, which seems to be implicit in this proposal, is actually carried into operation by the words. 
I ask the Minister whether, in the operation of sections 35 and 37 which provide an appeal to the Supreme Court, any appeals have taken place and, if they have taken place, what form the appeal has taken. Has it been a hearing of the matter de novo? Has it been by way of rehearing or has it been an appeal on the record of the original Committee hearing? 
1 thank the Minister. I asked that because the Minister, in her initial explanation, said that to provide this type of appeal would require the adduction of additional evidence, calling further witnesses and one thing and another like that. I would contemplate an appeal of this nature - an appeal under sections 35 and 37 - as an appeal on the record of the orginal hearing. Additional evidence would not be called and a new hearing would not take place. If this is so, the situation as visualised by the Minister in her reply that additional witnesses would be called and that the matter would be recanvassed would not apply. That would be my understanding of the nature of the appeal contemplated under sections 35 and 37. That ;s why 1 asked whether an appeal had taken place and, if so, what form the appellant proceedings took. 
Yes. 
 I would like to hear the honourable senator's view on what form he thinks the appellant proceedngs would take. Being an appeal from the Minister's decision, I suppose it would have to be an appeal as lo whether the Minister's discretion was properly, improperly or arbitrarily exercised. That would require a canvass of the record but no more, lt would not require any evdence that was not in the record. At least, that is what 1 would visualise. If that is so. the difficulties visualised by the Minister as administrative difficulties - the adduction of further evidence and witnesses being called - would nol in fact arise. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [4.4] - Section 37 paragraph 5 of the principal Act reads as follows: lt  the four' is -satisfied that the medical practi tioner has, in relation to his provision  of  medical services tinder this Hart or under the repealed Regulations, been guilty of failure to discharge conscientiously his obligations under the agreement . . . 
My reply to the honourable senator is that the Court must bc satisfied. 
-On what material? 
1 feel that the matter which is now before the Committee raises very important principles. It is an attempt to reconcile the purity of the law and civil rights wilh what we might call administrative demands. This is always a very difficult problem. Ministers who have the responsibility of administering statutes and departments are often very widely entrusted with discretion. This is a built-in pari of the system of government under the Parliament. This is particularly so in a case like this where ministerial discretion is endowed and apparently - at least in some respects - is subject to appeal. I agree with  Senator Greenwood  that there do not seem to be appellate provisions in relation to this section. I agree with that proposition. If this amendment were carried it would really create in this Parliament an appellate jurisdiction over the decision of the Minister. However that might be in relation to the purity of the regard for rights, whether it is consonant with any smoothness in his departmental administration is the very difficult matter which has to be resolved. 
If the endowment of the Minister with discretion in this case were completely untoward and unusual, perhaps it might then come under critical scrutiny. But this is no different, 1 take it, from many other discretions conferred an Ministers under many other statutes. Parliament would be put in an impossible position if every ministerial action which involved the exercise of discretion were regulated and had to come before the Parliament, one chamber or the other, and be subject to disallowance. I feel that it must inevitably have the effect of completely stultifying the processes of government and, in particular, the processes of this Parliament. 
Sitting suspended from 6 lo 8 p.m. 
I have very little more to say. 1 was merely pointing out that if this principle, which is implicit in the amendment, were written into this statute, it would have the effect of unjustifiably frustrating the legitimate use of ministerial power in the administration of departments and statutes. 1 pose one question: Why should it finish in this statute or in this section of the Act? Once the principle is written in in these circumstances, there could be 100 or 1,000 similar circumstances in other statutes where we would have to write it in. 1 think it would be completely unwise for the Committee to adopt the principle, because al a later stage it may be insisted that it be written in here and written in there. As I say, there would be total frustration of the processes of government. 1 would not like anyone to think that 1 am not as jealous of the exercise of discretionary powers in statutes as any other honourable senator, or that 1 am less solicitous of individual or group rights. But there must be that conciliation between those demands and the legitimate demands of government in the preservation of order and the administration of law. lt is that reconciliation that we in this chamber are always trying to discover. I feel it would be a tremendous blow, if such reconciliation has already been obtained, if this principle were to be adopted in this way. 
I wish to draw attention to one matter, namely, proposed new paragraph (k), which reads: 
such other information as the Parliament requires to be included. 
Under the Constitution, of course, the Parliament is the Senate, the House of Representatives and  Her  Majesty the Queen. Therefore, the only way in which the will of the Parliament can be expressed is by statute. So it seems meaningless to insert a provision such as such other information as the Parliament resolves by statute; in other words, when this Act is further amended. In effect, that is the only meaning that could be given to these words that are proposed to be added. 
I believe that it would reflect very poorly upon the Senate if such a provision were to be written into an amending statute. It certainly would expose the Senate to some degree of ridicule, in my conception. Therefore, I personally would not be prepared to be identified with that proposed new paragraph. In addition, this type of provision has the effect in some strange way of tying the hands of another Parliament. We would be resolving that certain particulars which this Parliament indicates should be required by another Parliament by statute. That seems to be an extraordinary situation. I rather doubt the actual validity of efficacy of that proposed new paragraph, being in that form and purporting to achieve that position. For that reason I shall be unable to accept that proposed new paragraph - quite apart from any of the other proposed new paragraphs to which I do not advert at this stage. 
 He may be a non practising member. Now, if we have a fixed term he may no longer be representing that body, no longer available or no longer suitable but he has a fixed term anil he has committed no act which would entitle thc Minister to dismiss him. Yet the Minister is disentitled to dismiss him even at the instance of the body that originally presented his name for membership. That would seem to be an extraordinary circumscription, as I see it. 
I do not know.  1  raised this and  1  would like the Minister's comment on it. lt does occur to mc that a very difficult position would arise where we would have either a practitioner not practising or not attending or anything of that nature but there would be no breach. He might have been a most inattentive member of the Committee. The body which presented him might say: We do not think he is any longer a suitable member of the Committee but we have no misconduct proved which would warrant the Minister removing him', and no-one could remove him for the fixed term. That would be an extraordinary situation yet it is a very real one which probably could arise in practice. For those reasons I think that to circumscribe the powers of the Minister except for good and sufficient reason would be imprudent at this stage. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [10.41] - What  Senator Byrne  has said is absolutely correct. The whole purpose and point of the legislation is to have flexibility. We believe that it would be of value and would give the Minister the opportunity to act in cases such as have been brought forward. I oppose the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator Greenwood's)  be agreed to. 
I think the point which has now emerged in this debate is one that can be read from the terms which have been used by the Minister. What the Senate has to decide is this: Into what category of service does the clinical examination of a patient by an optometrist fall? ls it in the nature of an ancillary medical service or is it in the nature of a para-medical service, or is it within certain bounds an actual medical service? We know that this is a Bill which goes to medical services, but we have seen during the progress of this debate an extension of that principle particularly in the area of the dental profession. Dentists have been included for those procedures which are of a quasi-medical character. That is for oral surgery, in ether words, whilst it is a service given outside the medical profession, if it purports to be or is essentially a medical service it attracts the benefit by virtue of the provision embraced in the amendment which hits been carried by the Committee. 
Let us examine the service given by the optometrist against that background. The ophthalmologist conducts a total clinical examination of a patient which involves a clinical examination and diagnosis of all sorts of complaints. In association with that he may also investigate the possibility of the occurrence of refractive errors in the eyesight of the patient. That examination for refractive errors is considered to be a medical service, lt was in that field that the ophthalmologists found themselves in conflict with the optometrists. They realised that in that area of what they themselves regard essentially as medical practice they were at a disadvantage. There is a tribute from the ophthalmologists themselves to this area of their work, which is common with that of optometrists, being of a medical character. 
Undoubtedly, there is this shadowy area in which the optometrist and the medical practitioner - the ophthalmologist - both move. In the area of the discovery and examination of refractive errors they do operate a medical service. If that is so, on the principles which are implicit in the whole of the Act, in the amendment as it relates now to oral surgery by dentists and in the acknowledgment by the ophthalmologists themselves, there must be no alternative but to recognise the service given by the optometrists in the area of refractive errors, the discovery and examination of them and prescription for them as a medical service - not of a para-medical nature and not of an ancillary nature, but an actual medical service. 
Against that background I believe that it is not advancing a comparable situation to advance the position of the physiotherapist or somebody of that character because the service rendered there is obviously not a service which is performed by a medical practitioner and no area of his practice embraces that type of service. 
Generally, it is not the function of a medical practitioner. In fact, it is a para-medical service at the best or it is an ancillary service at the least. The work of an optometrist does not fall into that category. It is acknowledged by the ophthalmologist himself as being essentially a medical service. If the function of this Bill is to provide for medical services, it seems quite logical that the examination by an optometrist for refractive errors and the prescription of spectacles as a consequency should be recognised as something to be embodied in the Bill. 
For that reason and without unduly delaying the Committee, I say that we believe that this is a principle that can W2 be embodied in the Bill and it is timely that it should be so embodied. Undoubtedly the question of cost will occupy the mind of the Government. But I do not feel that this is one of the matters that should be left aside for the examination which has been mentioned by the Minister and which will occupy the attention of the Government in relation to ancillary services. I cannot see that this service falls into this category. It falls into the category embraced by the Bill. It is logical that it should be embraced in this provision. Therefore, we support the amendment. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party does not support this amendment for the reason which I indicated in my approach to the previous proposal. The DLP supported the amendment in relation to the inclusion of the services of optometrists in the scheme on the ground that it was an area of medical service which is shared with ophthalmologists. However, the DLP regards the services of physiotherapists as being essentially paramedical ancillary. Therefore, in the logic of the situation, it agrees with the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin).  As the inclusion of all paramedical ancillary services are being considered by the Government, the Democratic Labor Pary does not see any reason why the services of physiotherapists should be included in this Bill. While the DLP accepts the desirability of the inclusion of this provision, it is unable to vote in favour of the amendment. The services of physiotherapists are very often costly because they can be required for prolonged periods of time. The inclusion of this provision in the national health scheme should receive the early consideration of the Government. It is hoped that the Minister's intimation to the Committee will mean that it will not be very long before a Bill is introduced into the Parliament which provides for the inclusion of such services in the scheme. However, the DLP is unable to support the amendment which seeks the inclusion of these services in the provisions of this Bill. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Some time ago 1 asked the Minister whether the Government would give consideration to the preparation and presentation of a White Paper on the economic consequences to Australia of Britain's probable, and probably imminent, entry into the European Economic Community, ls the Minister in a position to indicate whether the Government is so disposed? If it is. when will such a document be presented? ls it likely that it will be presented before the termination of this session or the commencement of the Budget session? 
1 do not wish to prolong the deliberations of the Senate, but 1 have been concerned tonight, as 1 have been concerned on other occasions, about the principles that we are adopting in the determination of salaries. A number of Bills have come into the Senate in relation to which the Senate has seen fit to intrude and to say that certain salaries should be fixed by statute, and amendments or requests to that effect have been carried. I do not think that when a Bill comes in here to amend an Act it is a very good practice for us to go back to the principle Act and purport to amend it in relation to this principle. 1 could find, for example, situations in which only the Bills that happen to come before this chamber by way of amendment are subject lo this attitude of the Senate, but there is a host of Acts already existing where the other practice operates which may never come before the Senate. We are developing a discrimination in the method of fixing salaries of this nature. That is nol a good practice. 
I had the opportunity during the division to have a couple of words with  Senator Murphy  and I have suggested that this is a principle which could be discussed calmly, with some recollection and more dispassionately during a later session of the Senate - not in this session but perhaps in the Budget session - when the Government might be good enough to supply a list of officers under various statutes whose salary fixation would come within or without this principle. This matter might be discussed as a general principle, the attitude of the Senate already being known.  Senator Murphy  suggested that this may come up in a Bill which will be before the Senate tomorrow. It may be possible to discuss it then or when we have more time at our disposal during a later session of the Parliament. 
I am concerned, as I think are members of my Party, at the practice we are adopting and the discriminations that wc may be writing in. One officer will claim that his salary must come before the Parliament by statute, and a similar officer will say: 'My salary is fixed by the Minister*. That is not a wise situation to be allowed to develop. 
The words 'terms and conditions', as they appear in sub-section  (3.)  of section  23  will be replaced by the amendment, will cover not only remuneration but also leave. This latter element is lost in the amendment, which is why the words become inappropriate. The terms of the amendment will have to be looked at more closely and redrafted. 
I am informed that there is some difficulty in this instance. I have not had an opportunity to mention this matter to  Senator Murphy  since I was informed of it because he has been on his feet speaking. The salaries of the gentlemen concerned under this Bill are not paid out of general revenue or appropriated in the Appropriation Act; they are paid from the income of the authority. If provision were to be made by statute for the payment of the salaries of these officers, a rather awkward position would arise. If the salaries could not be appropriated in the Appropriation Act. either we would have specifically to write the salaries into the statute constituting the authority or there would have to be a particular Bill providing the salaries which are adjusted annually according to cost of living adjustments. Therefore, that statute would have to be amended annually. 
At the moment it is done in the present form, but  Senator Murphy  has indicated - I think it is common ground - that this is now a general principle which will come under general scrutiny. Unfortunate situations are arising, and the instance to which I have just referred is an exemplar of the type of situation that can arise. If I may, I suggest that in the circumstances of this case, and with an assurance from the Minister that the general principle of the fixation of salaries is to come under review by the Government and its authorities, this position may remain undisturbed at the moment. Otherwise we will create this rather awkward position in which we would have to write the salaries into this statute and then we would have to recognise the necessity for the presentation of a Bill for particular statutes which are subject to annual adjustment. That would not be a good practice. I convey that suggestion lo  Senator Murphy,  as one of the officers conveyed it to me. 
My attention has been directed to  Senator Drury's  proposed amendment to section 23 of the principal Act. The proposed new sub-section states: 
The Director shall be paid such remuneration as the Parliament provides and such allowances as are prescribed, and on such other terms and conditions as are prescribed . . . 
It appears that the word 'and' immediately preceding the words 'on such other terms' is redundant. 
I merely direct the attention of the Committee to that. On the general question, I feel that there may be warrant in this case. I am not pleading it particularly because I have expressed my general concern on these matters although that does not apply in this instance. This is not a question of the fixation of a salary where the moneys are appropriated by Parliament from general revenue, whether that should be by statute or regulation. This is a case in which moneys are paid from a fund.If there was any opportunity to lay this aside for consideration until the whole principle was investigated comprehensively I feel that prudence might dictate that this should be laid aside. There would be no departure from the principle, the principle being recognised. But in this case we would be saying that this was an appropriate one to lay aside, the principle having been projected, and that a total investigation should take place. I would be disposed to think of that as a matter of prudence. We have made our point. We have projected a number of situations. 
 Senator Murphy  cannot see the necessity for that action. He would prefer that the matter rest as it is under the present system until January next year when a comprehensive statute might be brought in embracing all these officers with whom we have dealt and any other officers whose salary position might be called in for inclusion in the statute. I do not intend to press my view strongly. It is a suggestion. It is a workable suggestion. It may not be the best but I do not know that it is an issue, we having projected the principle on which I would be prepared to stand. I appeal to  Senator Murphy.  In this case he might think that that there is some warrant for it. 
I have nothing further to add at this point. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill which is to provide for a readjustment of electoral allowances for members of the House of Representatives and a small readjustment in the case of senators. I join with  Senator Turnbull  in at least raising the query why it has- not been found appropriate to provide to the senior officers of the Parliament this new type of allowance which is provided for heads of departments and heads of the Services. 1 take it that these allowances are for expenses which are pertinent to the discharge of their duties but which properly could not. be expected to be discharged within their own emoluments for the duties they perform. If this is the test to be applied, the officers of the Parliament could reasonably be considered as having just as many demands of this type on their time and purse as many other senior officers who do receive such an allowance. 
Another point which  Senator Turnbull  has quite properly raised  is  the question of the relativity of the Senate allowance to zonal allowances. for members of the House of Representatives. We are not proposing on this Bill to complain that the extra SI 00 is totally inadequate or anything of that character, but I merely draw attention to the fact that there is so often a misconception as to the work demands imposed on senators compared with members of the House of Representatives, lt is commonly pointed out that members of the House of Representatives will receive more individual approaches from their constituents for representations and approaches to be made to departments for the rectification of anomalies and presentation of cases. That is probably true. But it is not to be thought that senators do not receive a very great number of simitar approaches from constituents. 
It is one of the facts of public and political life that so very often constituents like to approach their parliamentary representatives of their own political complexion. Therefore, in an area which may be represented by a member of the House of Representatives of a different political complexion from that of the constituent concerned, the constituent will very often elect to by-pass that member, it is not that he has anything personal against the member, who might be a very competent man, but he would prefer to discuss his problem wilh a person of his own political persuasion. In that case he would seek out the senator of that political character. Therefore senators do get many individual representations from all over the State. In the larger States senators are required to make periodic visits to places, which they elect to do, which they delight to do, but which nevertheless are time and expense consuming. I feel that 1 should register this fact because 1 can speak as one who, because of the interruption of my continuous political association wilh this Parliament - I was here for some years and then left the chamber for some years and returned - is in a position to make an assessment of the demands now imposed on senators compared with the demands imposed on them years ago. I am not suggesting that in the years during which 1 was here before - from 1951 to 1959 - senators did not work hard and discharge the duties imposed upon them to the best of their ability. But I find a very dramatic difference today. This is associated with the new situation that this country has assumed in its own national right and in international affairs. 
 That could be so. But in the case of Australia it is particularly significant and the causes are not difficult to discover. Fifteen or so years ago Australia was in large measure sheltered, in her national position, national development and national aspirations, behind the strength and presence of great powers. But in the intervening years that shield has disappeared. In a very real sense Australia is now the complete master of her own destinies and is required to make decisions of a major and permanent character. 
This new position is reflected in the approach to and disposition and discharge of the duties performed by members of this Parliament. They themselves can sense this new position; they can sense this new responsibility which therefore devolves upon the Parliament and upon them individually as the participants in the parliamentary scene. As a result, members of Parliament today are demanding greater facilities - here I echo what  Senator Murphy  said - to enable them to discharge their duties. The consideration that is brought to debates is more penetrating and deeper. Resort is had much more to research services, library services and background information. 
There has been a tremendous response in this place to the provision, through the Parliamentary Library, of research facilities of a very high order. These are at our disposal and I am pleased and proud to say that they are freely availed of by members of the Parliament. The fact that this service is available and is availed of by members of the Parliament is evident in the standard of the debates. I believe that today members of the Parliament are approaching the discharge of their duties much better informed, much better equipped and with a much greater depth of information than was the case years ago. Without saying that members of the Parliament are adequately or inadequately paid - I am not discussing that - 1 believe that the opportunity should be taken to point out that this Parliament, in the individual character of its participating members, is responding enthusiastically to the new demands being imposed upon it and upon the Australian nation. It is a credit to members of the other place and of the Senate that that is so. 
I find also a much greater and more continuous personal involvement of members in the parliamentary scene. We see this, particularly in this place, in the emergence of select committees to discover and investigate certain areas of. concern. Today a report was presented in this chamber by the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. This is one of a succession of valuable reports - we trust that they will be valuable - which have been presented here and which form the basis of the thought and consideration of honourable senators as they approach legislation dealing with the subjects canvassed in those reports. Members of the Parliament are delighted to serve on these committees. Service on them is not easy. Senators have to reconcile all the other demands on them with the attendance and attention they are able to give to committee duties. 
These other demands are very varied and very considerable. No member of the Parliament can be considered purely as a parliamentarian. Under the Westminster system of government in which governments rise or fall on the floor of the Parliament, the chambers are also political forums. It is not only essential but also proper and appropriate that the political character of members of the Parliament should never be put in the discard. A person coming into this place must be always conscious of the political situation that he personally and his party occupy, because it is part of our system of government. He must be conscious of the position he occupies as a parliamentarian, contributing in the technical sense to the passage and discussion of legislation and the general conduct of the administration of the country. Finally, he has to be conscious of his personal responsibility to individual electors. 
Doing all those things and reconciling the parliamentary demands with the quasipolitical demands impose tremendous burdens on members of the Parliament. Therefore I at no stage make any apology for the adequate or even slightly more than adequate emolument that is paid to members of the Parliament or for any allowances that might be disposed to them. For those reasons the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the International Monetary Agreements Bill. I do not think it is necessary to speak at any length on it. In a sense this measure is highly technical. The presentation of this Bill highlights the significance of the new international monetary controls. This is particularly relevant today when we have seen recessions on the international stock exchanges and the consequent concern expressed by people in many countries as to whether we could be moving into a condition of economic depression. Against this background it is salutary that we should have a Bill of this consequence which highlights the international monetary controls and which is designed to remedy situations which, if they are not handled in time, can very well deteriorate and precipitate economic recessions or even depressions. Australia is one of the great contributors on the international scene. In common with other countries Australia's quota in the International Monetary Fund will be increased according to the economic strength of this nation. Australia has been a contributor to and a participant in the operations of this Fund with considerable economic benefit to this country. On the other hand our contributions and participation have been valuable and salutary in the scene of world economics. 
The International Monetary Fund is an agency of the United Nations. I know that in these days there is tremendous criticism of the ineffectiveness of the international body at various levels, particularly at the political level. That may be so, because that is the most difficult area in which the international body can operate, lt can be said and J think it must be said that in the areas of the specialised agencies and technical commissions, the United Nations provides an international stability and a wealth of international experience and expertise which is of immense and today of indispensable benefit to the world at large. This is a viable, active and valuable component of the United Nations. To the extent that Australia participates in it and contributes to it we are playing an increasingly major role in international deliberations and international monetary and fiscal controls. For that reason it is worth putting on record during the passage of this Bill, which my Party supports and which the whole Parliament welcomes, that it is another demonstration of Australia's international interest and the increase in her international importance and status, which I trust the years will witness to an increasing degree with great and valuable consequences to her and particularly the under-developed nations of the world. I repeat that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
A rather extraordinary position has arisen. We must first of all remember that this whole debate has taken place under the suspension of Standing Orders. The very purpose of that suspension was that 3 resolutions germane to the same matter might be presented and debated together and voted on separately. Now there is nothing to suggest that there was any priority in time for one resolution against the other. The very mode of presentation, the very suspension of the Standing Orders and the avowed purpose for which that was done was that the Senate could register its opinion on each of the propositions in isolation. There was nothing to suggest that the Senate, having registered an opinion on resolution A, would be precluded in any way by that decision from registering a concurrent or contrary opinion on resolution B or, for that matter, on resolution C. I would suggest that  Senator Murphy  is quite aware that that is the position and that was the temper and will of the Senate in the suspension of the Standing Orders, so that these resolutions could be discussed and determined in that way. 
I am sure that if  Senator Murphy's  resolution had not been the first resolution but the second, and if the Government's resolution had been carried,  Senator Murphy  would not have argued, as he did tonight, that he was precluded from putting his resolution forward and having a vote taken on it. In those circumstances there is no estoppel operating now against the Senate in logic or commonsense or observance of proper forms from proceeding to a decision on the motion now before the Senate. That can be logically and completely done. If the Senate in its wisdom chooses to carry the motion that we have proposed and if it finds itself in contradiction with  Senator Murphy's  motion, or with the Government's motion, that is a matter to be resolved subsequently and the 3 matters are to be coalesced in some way. That obviously will be the expressed will of the Senate. 
But I take the second point of  Senator Murphy,  that our motion is completely contradictory of what was propounded in his motion and carried by the Senate. Our motion goes beyond that. Admittedly, on the actual number of committees to be appointed and their designations, we differ from  Senator Murphy's  motion. Our motion goes further than the mere selection of committees, the numerical designation of them or the nomenclature under which they operate. We go to the processes of establishing them, and we use the specific words that the committees shall be established in a certain order; not that they shall be appointed only, but that they shall be established - that is, brought into actual viability - in a certain order. There is no proposition of that character in the motion that was propounded by  Senator Murphy.  If the Senate should see fit to carry our resolution, the interpretation obviously and logically open to such resolution of the Senate is this: It is that part of our resolution in particular that honourable senators want put into operation and on which they were not invited to vote because of the terms of  Senator Murphy's  proposition. It may well be in addition that they prefer the 6 committees that we propose rather than the eight that  Senator Murphy  proposes. 
 It may be that they will take  Senator Murphy's  7 committees but that they prefer our six plus the processes of establishment as a matter of prudence.  Mr Deputy President,  we have got into this extraordinary position in a situation in which the Senate should be demonstrating the greatest sense of responsibility. The whole purpose of this exercise is so that the Senate in the approach to the discharge of its high parliamentary duties can show the greatest sense of responsibility and give the greatest, mode of investigation possible to the examination of the processes of government. Surely the first thing we must do is not by our own action contradict the very things that we want to investigate, namely, an imprudent and irresponsible embarkation upon the expenditure of public moneys. Here in the establishment of a parliamentary process unique in this country after 70 years of Federation,  Senator Murphy's  motion proposes that, without any experience at all, without any testing of the ground, wc immediately establish 7 committees which must be available for the references that may be made to them at any time: and if that is so then the committees must be standing by adequately stalled and with all  Ihe  administrative and office appointments that are required for the proper and immediate operation of such committees. 
 Exactly. There will be the difficulty and cost of getting staff and accommodation. Surely this process commands the greatest demonstration of responsibility and prudence by this chamber. We make a farce of the whole of this exercise if we ourselves are  Ihe  first transgressors against the very process which it will bc  Ihe  object of the committees to investigate, that is, the wrong and indefensible expenditure of public moneys and bad public administration. 
We accept the principle of standing committees; we accept the principle of committees on the Estimates for the next Budget; but. we say this: proceed festina lente - proceed slowly. We should sei about the establishment of two committees; let the personnel receive some experience; let ihe senators receive some experience in serving on these committees, and let them have the opportunity of displaying whether the committees can or cannot meet in Senate meeting time. What are the demands made upon Senators? Are they altogether too much? In other words, can we proceed to even more committees? All those things can be found out only by the processes of experimentation, and that is the very purpose of our motion. I have no doubt that the Senate in its wisdom wants to express its opinion on thai, even though in so doing it may contradict in part a resolution which is carried in another field and which makes no reference to this proposition. 
I would say,  Mr Deputy President,  that the functioning of these committees and their success or failure will depend in large measure upon the administrative staff that will be set up and the ability of senators to give their time to ihe functioning of these committees. Whether they can do that cannot be discovered unless some committees have operated for some time. For that reason we have suggested that 2 committees be immediately established. We have been asked why we select these 2 committees. As honourable senators will realise, they are most significant committees in two areas of public administration. One is the standing committee on trade, industry and labour. Honourable senators can understand the matters thai come within that heading, as shown in the report of the  Clerk  to the Standing Orders Committee. There are such things as the primary industries and trade. Then, of course, there are the eleemosynary committees on health, welfare, education and science. We could have selected first for specific establishment the committee suggested on external affairs and defence; but for the very reason that this is a period of experimentation and that what we call the hot subject committee might have the effect of precipitating situations that might result in the destruction of the committee system in its infancy, we have deliberately avoided that I think, again, that prudence dictated thai thai should be the approach to the committee system. 
As  Senator Branson  reminds me. another matter that affected our thinking was that there was already a Joint Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and it would seem to be foolish and an unwarranted expenditure of public moneys to set up a committee lo trespass on the field of a very significant committee which is adequately staffed, both in parliamentary and administrative personnel. 
So,  Mr Deputy President,  1 would say that the Senate must approach this motion in complete isolation. It is a motion that stands within the four corners of its own terms. It contemplates the establishment of a certain number of committees and their actual introduction by a process governed by prudence and discretion. The Senate is entitled totally to disregard the resolutions which have been carried and to carry this one; and if 3 resolutions are finally carried they must be identified together and a solution must be found between them. It is the process to which the Senate itself subscribed when it provided for the suspension of the Standing Orders to enable these resolutions to be carried. To abandon that and to render any resolution on this matter ineffective would be an abandonment of the decision we ourselves have taken. 
For those reasons, I appeal to honourable senators to regard this for what it is: a motion for the principle of committees, the number of committees, the designation of committees and the machinery by which they shall be implemented. Unhesitatingly I say that our motion embodies in the fullest degree the real wishes of the Senate and the real exhibition by this chamber of that degree of prudence and responsibility that should always characterise its deliberations. For those reasons, I strongly commend our motion to the Senate. 
It is not my intention to intrude unduly upon the time of the Senate, but 1 feel that it would be less than generous if a number of Queensland senators did not contribute to this debate, firstly to express appreciation of involvement by the Commonwealth in this particular major work for the benefit of the Bundaberg district, Queensland and Australia through the sugar industry; and, secondly, briefly to refer to the tremendous importance and great significance of that industry to Queensland and to the Australian economy. The sugar industry in the eyes of many people in Australia is a pot of gold industry. I think it is always wise that we should try to disillusion those people in respect of the mechanics of the industry. The support price is felt by some people in parts of Australia other than the sugar producing areas to be a great concession by the Australian consumer-taxpayer. It is believed to be support of an industry that is wealthy in its own right and does not warrant such support. 
I appreciate that comment from  Senator Webster  of Victoria, one of the sugar consuming States. 
He supports the Bill, as all men of intelligence will. The sugar industry gains its economic stability from its sheer efficiency and the magnificent machinery organisation which backs its operation. The International Sugar Agreement has been renegotiated after some years of desuetude. The Commonwealth preference agreement for sugar on the British market is continuing. Explicit contracts have been signed for the sale of sugar to Japan. An amount of sugar is consumed at the Austraiian home consumption price. All these factors, taken in conjunction with the efficiency of the industry, the mechanics of its operation and the international and national agreements enable the sugar industry to function on a competent level of efficiency and to produce a return to farmers, in general terms. But in no sense is it an extremely wealthy industry. 
Sugar farmers in most cases do not have great holdings. They gain a reasonably assured income through hard work and the application of personal industry and technical efficiency. Both of those factors are constantly applied in the industry. As a result, although Australia is a white producing country - that is, it produces at a high level of wages, at the Western standard - we are able to produce sugar for sale on the world market in competition with countries which produce with much lower labour standards. The technical efficiency of the Australian sugar industry is one of the envies of the sugar producing world. 
When a situation arises in which one of the great traditional sugar growing areas such as the Bundaberg district is in considerable difficulty due lo depletion of water resources in an industry that is becoming increasingly competitive but which yet retains its importance and significance as a means of keeping populated great areas of a great State like Queensland, it is timely, prudent and only just that financial assistance should be forthcoming. The proposal for this irrigation and reticulation scheme is firstly to replace the salinating aquifers in the Bundaberg area. This action is most timely and will be productive of results. Its second aim concerns the distribution of surplus waters by irrigation to areas which will not draw ultimately on the aquifers. These 2 concepts are embraced within what we call the Kolan-Burnett-Bundaberg scheme. 
I pause for a moment to comment on one fact.  Senator Prowse,  who is now in the chamber, shared with me in the deliberations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. He is particularly conscious of the great and increasing problem of salination of our water resources. That has been particularly evident in the 
Murray River. We have had tremendous debates in this Parliament on the building of a dam at Chowilla, or alternatively at Dartmouth. As members of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution we looked at this question. 
Similar problems arise in other parts of Australia. This Bill and the information which accompanies it highlight the fact that a similar problem can develop in aquifers in many parts of Australia. The problem is developing in the Bundaberg area where, due to a very bad season, there has been a depletion of the run-ins and the replenishment of aquifers. As a result, and also because of the heavy run-off of water, there is an increasing level of salination. The increasing demand on the aquifers in this area has been due in large measure to the great expansion of the sugar industry which accompanied the presentation and implementation of the Gibbs Report some years ago. Expansion took place to meet the existing and expected world demand. to which the Australian industry has responded. At that stage it involved an increase in the area to be under cane, an increase in the area of assignments, and with a succession of bad seasons and a constantly increasing draw on the aquifer, with a failure to replenish it, there were salination consequences. 
This Bill is not designed merely to assist those people operating in a particular industry. In a sense it is a Bill to contribute to the preservation of very precious resources in Australia which are our natural water aquifers. Whatever its immediate purpose may be, it has dual consequences each of which is extremely valuable to Australia. I think we should remove a misconception that because money is to be spent on this irrigation project a great number of farmers will be induced to expand their acreage and to draw in increasing degrees upon available water supplies, whether subterranean or surface. That is not so. As honourable senators know, the production of sugar is strictly controlled either on a mill peak basis at the mill level, or on a farm peak basis whereby each farm has is farm peak and is required to produce within it, or to produce beyond it at its own economic risk. The area of land on which sugar may be grown is strictly defined, and it is assigned to a mill. This Bill has no intention to increase or to encourage an increase in the actual area of assignments, it would be wrong of the governments of the Commonwealth and of Queensland to come to the financial party by providing this money if it would only serve to aggravate the situation by inducing an increased draw upon those resources because of increased acreage. That is nol and will not be the position. 
The consequences will be that farmers in those areas who are producing substantially by dry farming, and who over the last few years because of recurring intermittent and sometimes continued drought have produced at an economic loss, will be able lo produce their farm peak from an economic area, a smaller area, and therefore to produce at a level which will make it viable within the economic laws of supply and demand. We welcome this Bill. We welcome it for its contribution to the Bundaberg area, to which it will bring new vitality, security and stability for the people in that area, lt is tremendously important in these times of the flight to the cities from thu' land, lt is increasingly important in this vast continent that we retain as far as we can the distribution of our rural population. 
One of the submissions to the Gibbs Committee which greatly affected its recommendations and on which it laid great emphasis concerned the extent to which new growers should be admitted into the industry so that at least there would be a holding level of population in the rural areas governed by the sugar industry. All of these things are important, and I feel that the participation by the Commonwealth in this scheme, which not only gives a new vitality and new encouragement to the people of the area but also indicates the Commonwealth's involvement in the conservation of a great national resource, will strengthen this part of the rural economy and in doing so will strengthen the whole rural economy of Australia. The ultimate scheme will involve the expenditure of much more money than is voted in this Bill because it will involve finally vast reticulation systems, the building of the Monduran Dam - this will be of vast proportions, probably as great as Sydney Harbour in water storage capacity - and generally the reticulation of water and the total replenishment of subterranean sources. 
For those reasons as a Queenslander, and more particularly perhaps as an Australian.  1  welcome the advent of this action by the Commonwealth. I am sure that  1  speak for the people of the Bundaberg district, not only those immediately involved in the growing of sugar but also those involved in the secondary and tertiary industries which flow from the growing of sugar in the area, when I express appreciation to the Government for its involvement in this matter. I am sure that the Australian people as a whole can be grateful for this recognition of the importance of the industry and of the conservation of our natural resources. I support the Bill and also the amendment which has been supported by  Senator Gair  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Parly. 

 Senator COTTON (New South WalesMinister for Civil Aviation) 15.27J  -  in reply - An explanatory memorandum was circulated wilh this Bill and one might make some very brief comments from the introduction to that memorandum. This memorandum gives a brief description of the Bundaberg area and of the works to be constructed by the State wilh financial assistance front the Commonwealth in order to provide an assured water supply for irrigation and other purposes. The works for which funds have been allocated by the Queensland and Commonwealth Governments comprise a major storage - the Monduran Dam of 475,000 acre feet storage capacity - 2 tidal barrages and pumping stations and distribution systems lo convey water from the Kolan and Burnett Rivers lo canals centred on Bundaberg in southern Queensland. The regulated river How provided by the main storage and ancillary works has been estimated at about 175,000 acre feet per annum. Water from Monduran Dam on the Kolan River will regulate the flows of both the Kolan and Burnett Rivers, the latter by means of a pumping station and connecting channel. Distribution of water to landholders will by by channel supply or by private pumping from the rivers or channels. 
I think that indicates to all of us the general proposal. If one can say anything about it I think it probably is that the proposal, when consummated, will add to the stability and prosperity of the region. Obviously there is a problem of water drawdown which brings with it the problem of salinity. Equally there is the problem of the fluctuating supply of water which causes, in turn, the problem of fluctuating cane yields. Both situations need to be overcome. This is the first part of a huge national water resources development programme. This is the second such programme. The first programme which involved the expenditure of $50m has been completed, and the second programme which involves the expenditure of$1 00m is due to be taken up over5 years. The work with which we are now dealing is the first work in the second huge programme. Queenslanders will know very well that their State is extremely well placed with rivers and with water flowing into the sea, and that there is a great need for that water to be harnessed. That is what is proposed in this instance. It should be understood that this was requested by the Queensland Government and is an example, one might say again, of the Commonwealth and the States working together in a joint enterprise for the benefit of the Australian people, particularly the people of the region and of Queensland. 

 Senator Milliner referred to clause 7 of the Bill. I am assured that this is a standard in Bills of this kind and is related to the proper control of the expenditure of Commonwealth funds. The Queensland Government has accepted this in the past. It causes no administrative problem.  Senator Byrne  dealt with the difficulties of the industry, with which I agree. He referred to the problem of the fluctuating price level of sugar on the world market. He was correct when he said that this is a highly efficient industry and that it has a remarkable performance in the farming end in the breeding of new canes and new strains for high yield, in the manufacturing end and in the refining end. Its yield pattern is extremely high by world standards. I am given to understand that its refining and milling practices are equally high by world standards. However, it is also true that it depends a great deal upon the world market situation, upon the maintenance of the Commonwealth sugar agreement, upon some kind of preferred right of entry to the market in the Commonwealth of Nations and equally, we must  reassure  ourselves once again, it depends a great deal upon the Australian domestic market. 
When we turn to  Senator Keeffe's  proposed amendment we should direct ourselves briefly to the point that is made in the second reading speech to the effect that in the division of constitutional responsibility the assessment, development and control of water resources in the States is primarily a matter for State governments. Equally I am assured that we have to take the viewpoint not only of the Commonwealth Parliament, but also of the State Parliament which asked for this measure and of the region itself which did a lot of work in the preliminary investigations. A single national evaluation could be misleading because of the great regional value of the project. The livelihood of 35,000 people is involved and all factors were taken into account when the decision was made by the Government. The Commonwealth's studies were designed for the purpose of advising Ministers and the quotation of the results of those studies out of context, when one thinks of the broad pattern of all those involved, could be, in the Government's view, misleading. Therefore it is with regret that the Government feels that it cannot accept the amendment proposed by  Senator Keeffe.  The Government docs not believe that it is necessary or that it adds anything to the situation. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to he added  (Senator Keeffe's amendment)  be added. 
The Democratic Labor Party similarly supports this measure. This Bill and the Loan (Defence) Bill may be dealt with in the light of the same considerations. Perhaps there is a lesson to be learned from the necessity for the presentation and the passage of the Bills. These 2 Bills reflect the prevailing economic climate in Australia. 
 This could go to both Bills. Loan raisings have been disappointing. They have not reached expectations. Of course this is one of the consequences of the monetary policy that is being imposed by the Government as a counter-inflationary measure. It may open up the ground for some criticism as to whether there has been adequate fiscal control of the economy as against reliance on monetary control to try to stem inflation and stabilise the situation. However, whatever mistakes may have been made there and whether it is desirable that one resorts to both avenues to a greater degree or to one or the other, the fact remains that the Budget estimates of loan raisings were not realised. Therefore it has been necessary to rely upon other measures to raise moneys in the manner projected by this Bill in order to meet the situation that will develop in the financing of the deficit, which will now be greater than was expected. 
The whole matter highlights the difficulties of modern systems of finance, how sensitive the whole system is, how interference in one area, like pressure applied, goes equally in all directions and creates situations which have consequences which must be handled at a later stage of the economic operation. Nevertheless we now must face the necessity for some provision in view of the nonrealisation of Budget expectations. The method resorted to here finds approval, as it would in any orthodox approach to handling an economic situation to meet a situation that may develop. For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
It is indeed unfortunate that the implications of a matter of such consequence should come before the Senate in the dying hours of this session and in association with this measure because undoubtedly this Bill is being used, and quite properly used, as a vehicle for the discussion of matters of very great import to the whole structure of the Australian economy. As other honourable senators have suggested, this might well be a topic that would occupy on a particular motion th; attention of the Senate, with adequate study being allowed in advance and the presentation of considered ideas. 1 particularly regret from the point of view of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  that this debate is taking place in these circumstances, because I know that this is a matter of considerable interest to him and one which in other circumstances might have prompted a most valuable contribution from him in the debate. I would therefore hope, along with other senators, that some opportunity might be given at some future date to discuss this matter. 
In the modern Australian economy, and perhaps in most modern economies, 'here are substantial disciplines of one character or another. The major disciplines which are exercised in the Australian economy have stemmed from about five principal sources. There is first of all the discipline over monetary policy which is exercised by and through the Reserve Bank of Australia. There is the discipline over the capital investments by way of loans exercised by the Loan Council. There is the wage policy as enunciated in the judgments, deliberations and pronounciations of the arbitration systems. Commonwealth and Stale, and in the declaration of a national wage. There is the great fiscal control exercised through the annual federal Budget. Last but not least is the operation of the Tariff Board. 
In this modern Australian economy the Tariff Board must be prepared to assume its proper place and accept its proper responsibility as one of the great contributing economic disciplines in our society. For years the Tariff Board has been occupied with consideration of applications and the variation of a tariff here or there or its application here and its removal there. But in more latter years and in more recent reports by the Tariff Board it has become evident that the Tariff Board is now seeing itself in its true perspective as one of the contributing disciplines in the Australian economy. I think it is a development we should all welcome because, after all, it is quite proper that if this role is to be played by the Tariff Board in a proper manner it must publicly acknowledge the principles on which it feels disposed to operate and the part which it thinks it can most valuably play in the development and organisation of the Austraiian economy. Whether the principles enunciated by it in more recent times are correct, and whether  Senator Sim's  or  Senator Webster's  proposition finds general acceptance, the Tariff Board does enunciate certain general principles and it is a question of how they should be applied in the Australian scene today. 
While a body such as the Tariff Board operates in a condition of semiindependence it is not totally independent of government control. A common misconception existed that the Reserve Bank of Australia was operating in a sense as a determinant of monetary policy independently and free of government control. But the recent intervention of the Government in relation to the fixation of interest rates showed quite definitely and clearly - perhaps not for the first time - 'that that is not so. I am not criticising or passing judgment on it: I am merely stating it as a fact. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, however, is virtually completely unlimited in its deliberations and its approach to the matters which are its very high responsibility. Being of a judicial character governments have the opportunity and the right to present cases before it and to present their point of view on national wage fixation and other matters. Beyond that they are not in a position to control the deliberations of the Commission and certainly not its final conclusions and its judgments and pronouncements. 
The Australian Loan Council is a body with which to negotiate on the economic estimate propounded by the Commonwealth Government as to the availability and the capacity of the loan market. The annual Budget, of coins;, is an instrument of direct Commonwealth control. But the Tariff Board is not completely independent. lt can make recommendations and, in the main, those recommendations are adopted by the Government. That does not always have to be the case, and it is not necessarily so. 
The significance of the Tariff Board becomes increasingly great as one witnesses the development of Australian society - that is, the economic society and the social order - and as we see the need to use the term used by other honourable senators - one of the modern terms - namely the restructuring of Australian industries both primary and secondary in the light of the new Australia which is about us. Unfortunately we are inclined to use the old weapons to handle new situations. So often we fight modern wars with the weapons of the previous war. lt is quite possible that in an approach to the new Australia we are still not clear what form it will take. We are not taking adequate steps quickly enough to orient Australia in the direction in which there will be the greatest reward and most value for this nation. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has given notice of motion in relation to rural industries. After some debate this notice of motion rests on the notice paper. It is a proposition for a royal commission to examine the whole structure of the rural industries. The notice of motion was countered by 2 amendments. The Australian Labor Party's amendment stated that the matter should be left to the Australian Agricultural Council. The Government moved an amendment in which it suggested that there should be industry submissions as to the restructuring of individual industries. It was precisely for the reasons to which I am adverting in the course of this debate that we did not project such an approach to this problem of the rural industries any more than we would project a similar approach to the problem of secondary industries. We do not see the problem of the rural industries as a problem of industry A, B and C. The DLP believes there is a necessity to restructure these industries according to varying market capacity, varying consumer demand according to costs and prices, population distribution and redistribution, attractions or lack of attractions on the land, urbanisation, transport, and matters of that character. In other words, there has to be a complete review of the whole structure of our rural industries. 
Exactly. It would be independent of any pressure. It would be something not from industry itself but an independent body that would call evidence and produce the most authoritative submissions available. It would reach objective conclusions. My Party has moved that motion because the participation in the restructuring of industry and the operations of the Tariff Board could be of prime importance. Undoubtedly many of the problems in the rural industries stem from the tariff situation. Whether the tariff is too high or too low is a matter for disputation. Whether it is affecting our capacity to export at economic prices and at competitive prices with an adequate return to Australia is a matter for disputation. Undoubtedly a matter such as the operation of the tariffs in Australia is a matter essentially to be discussed in any proper, constructive and modern approach to the rural industries. I only instance that; it is not my intention to speak unduly long at this stage. But I do think this chamber would be deprived of a magnificent opportunity to discuss one of the most important matters facing Australia - that is, a complete redetermination of the form the Australian nation is going to take at the productive level in industries, primary and secondary, in the light of the mining boom, in the light of the new reliance of this country on mineral exports for overseas credits and things of that character - if we were to confine discussion to occasions such as this in the dying hours of the session and on a Bill which is merely specific in its character. I would welcome an intimation from the Minister for Civil Aviation who in this chamber represents the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  that at an appropriate time in the Senate - and sometimes the Senate does have opportunity before legislation comes through from another place - a motion might be put down in which honourable senators of all political shades and from various walks of life might intimate their concept of the function and role of the Tariff Board in the modern Australia and whether, in the restructuring of the Australian economy, consideration should be given to this and, if so, what part it should play. I commend that suggestion to the Minister. The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
I hope I will be pardoned for intruding one or two thoughts even at this stage in the early hours of the morning. I think the first consideration is to contemplate what was to be the function of the Senate in the structure of federalism. The Senate was created as an integral part of the federal system, substantially as a part of the compact with the States that there should be a legislative body representitng in a particular way their interests and protecting those interests. So the Senate constitutionally was primarily designed for the protection of the States, and one would think that to have always complete representation of any State would be in the interest of that Stale and would be so regarded. 
But once the Senate was written into the Constitution, whether it was primarily or exclusively for the protection of the States, it was written in as an integral part of the structure of the legislative process. The Parliament of the Commonwealth is the Queen, the House of the Senate and the House of Representatives. In other words, the Senate functioning properly is an indispensable part of the operation of the Constitution and the processes of federal legislation. Therefore the States have an obligation not merely to ensure, from their point of view, their protection and that they are always adequately and totally represented, but also to play their part in the functioning of federalism. We could theoretically conceive the situation in which the States for some reason good and sufficient to themselves might refrain from electing their senators and so stultify the whole processes of federal government. There is nothing in the Constitution to prevent them from doing that, on the information that  Senator Greenwood  has been good enough to supply. But I take it that we would have the same obligation in this country, where we have a written Constitution, similar to thai in the Dicey Conventions of the Constitution in England, and that even if the State governments are not required by law or by their ministerial advisers to do this or that, there is nevertheless a convention that they will do it. and it is as much as anything the convention that is being violated in this instance. It is the convention that should be observed. 
I agree that this is a very serious intrusion into the functioning of federal government and. at the extremity could completely frustrate it. For that reasonI think it is opportune that the Senate register its concern at the present situation and by means appropriate to it, and in a way which will be consonant with the dignity of this chamber and of the sovereign State involved, express to the State concerned or to the appropriate people in that State its opinion on the remedies that might be applied in order to ensure that this matter will be remedied as quickly as possible.I think that some such action by the Senate is appropriate and is certainly called for. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In view of the virtual certainty and apparent imminence of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community, and the great economic consequences for Australia, particularly for the rural industries, will the Prime Minister arrange for the preparation at an early date of a White Paper onthe implications to Australia of Britain's entry. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In view of all the unknowns associated with this question,the Government does not intendto prepare a White Paper on the subject. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has already indicated its attitude to the type of amendment that is now proposed. Some weeks ago the procedure was adopted of writing into the legislation the fixation of salaries by statute. On 2 or 3 occasions we gave our support to that principle. Then a general statement was made on behalf of our Party that as many such instrumentalities employed people whose salaries would come under consideration, merely to select those people whose enabling statute happened to come before the Parliamentto change the method of fixation seemed to us to be imprudent and unwise. We therefore suggestedt hat the whole matter should be considered. We suggested that until it had been considered the present mode of fixation should be retained and that the whole matter should be considered in principle for general application at the appropriate time. In pursuance of that general statement we do not support the proposed amendment. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN (Western 
Government does not support this motion at present for the reasons stated by  Senator Byrne.  Because the Senate has seen fit to change the method of fixation of remuneration for boards now in operation, in respect of which legislation has been before the Senate, the Government believes that there should be a review to see at which level a board's remuneration should be fixed by Parliament and at which level it should be established by the GovernorGeneral. For the reasons I have stated we do not support the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the new clause 5a proposed to be inserted  (Senator O'Byrne's amendment)  be inserted. 
lt is unfortunate that this matter should come up in these circumstances at this early hour of the morning or at this belated hour of the previous day. As an amendment to the motion moved by  Senator Murphy  I move: 
Delete all words after '1970' in the proposed motion and insert in lien thereof: 
Unless otherwise ordered each committee shall consist of 8 senators comprising 4 Government senators to be nominated by the Leader of the  Government  in the Senate, 3 Opposition senators to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, I senator lo be nominated by the Leader of the second nongovernment parly for membership of 6 of the said committees and I senator nominated by any minority group or independents for membership of 1 of the said  committees 
The particular committees in respect of which the second non-government parly or minority group or independents nominate for membership shall be determined by agreement between the second non-govern ment party and the minority  group  or independents and in the absence of agreement duly notified to the  President  the appointments shall be determined by the Senate. 
Each committee shall  proceed  to business notwithstanding  that  all members have nol been appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy. 
Each committee shall elect a Government member as chairman. 
The  chairman  may from lime to time appoint a member of the committee  to he deputy-chairman and the member so appointed shall act as chairman of the  committee  at any time when there is no  chairman  or the  chairman  is nol present at a meeting of the  committee. 
In  the  event of an equality ot voting, the  chairman,  or the deputy-chairman when acting as  chairman,  shall have a casting vole. 
A standing committee shall not meet while the Senate is actually sitting, unless by special order of  the  Senate. (.8) The foregoing provisions of this  resolution  so far as they are inconsistent wilh the Standing Orders, shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
Implicit in the amendment is a formula by which the non-Opposition and nonGovernment groups within the Senate shall be given representation on these committees. We propose that the second non-Government party, which is the official title given to the Democratic Labor Party for certain purposes and recognition in this Parliament, should be entitled to serve on 6 of the  7  committees and that in the particular and current instance,  Senator Turnbull,  who is now sitting as an Independent, be entitled to sit on 1 committee as a strict written-in entitlement. In that respect my amendment differs very gravely from the motion proposed for the Opposition by  Senator Murphy.  There is no entitlement given in that motion to the minority party -  Senator Turnbull  - to have representation on a committee at all. 
 I do not care whether he is happy or not. If  Senator Murphy  reads his amendment he will see that  Senator Turnbull  is given no entitlement at all. 1 shall read  Senator Murphy's  amendment and its purport will become quite obvious. It reads:   . . one senator from the minority  groups  If the minority groups agree on the appointment of a member of the second non-Government party in the Senate,-- 
That is the Democratic Labor Party -  the appointment shall be made by the Leader of that Party: 
That is if agreement is reached. It continues: 
If the minority groups agree on the appointment of a senator who is not a member of that Party, the appointment shall be made by the senator agreed upon. Appointments shall be made by notification in writing to the  President.  In the event of no agreement being reached by the minority groups, the appointment of a member of the minority groups shall be resolved by the Senate. 
That writes in no entitlement whatsoever - no explicit entitlement - for  Senator Turnbull  to be on a committee at all. He has an entitlement only if the Democratic Labor Party and he agree that he shall be on a committee. If agreement cannot be reached the matter has to be left to the Senate to resolve. On the contrary the Democratic Labor Party's amendment specifically writes in an entitelment for the minority group,  Senator Turnbull,  to serve on a committee, and only the question of which committee comes into consideration. If that cannot be resolved then the Senate shall decide it. That is the effect of the amendment. He is entitled to serve on a committee.  Senator Murphy's  proposal contains no entitlement for him to serve on any committee. It is only in the event of agreement with the DLP that he has an entitlement. 
It does not come down to that at all. I think the Senate could be explicit. We, as a Party, would welcome the Opposition's amendment because it gives us complete control virtually over total minority representation. We did not do that. We explicitly vacate any entitlement we might have to  Senator Turnbull  or to any other independent. We recognise his entitlement pro rata to be on 1 committee. Only in the event of a dispute as to which committee he might elect to serve on does the matter go to the Senate. That is a very grave difference, and we think an extraordinarily important difference. We speak for minority groups in the Senate. We think that the Senate should recognise not only the rights of the 
Government, not only the rights of the Opposition, not only the rights of the DLP but certainly the rights of somebody who is not in any of the Party groups. Our amendment does that.  Senator Murphy,  in his original proposal, moved that the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Government, ex officio, be members of the committee. The idea behind these committees would be that they should not be political forums. 
No. I am speaking of the original motion. They should be objective tribunals for discussing matters of parliamentary and administrative concern. In that suggestion the only ones mentioned were the 2 leaders to whom 1 have referred. The leader of the non-government group was not mentioned. That suggestion, if it had been pursued, would have been unwise and perhaps discrimatory.  Senator Murphy  has not pursued that proposal in the present motion which is a variation of his original motion. But he says that the Leader of the Opposition is entitled to be represented by some person of his expressed personal nomination, apparently, and the Leader of the Government is entitled to be represented on the committee by a person of his designation but a Minister may not be represented. In those circumstances, while the Minister,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, may not act on the committee he can designate a particular senator to be there for him. In explicit terms, he is really the Minister's nominee and to that extent virtually his agent. In addition, the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Government may each appoint an additional senator to any committee. Therefore, the Minister is estopped. Apparently, the object of  Senator Murphy's  proposal - I would share it - is that the executive should not be represented on this committee, which is a backbench committee and a parliamentary committee as distinct from a Committee which will sit in judgment on the executive. Here we have an express provision for a representative designated by the senior member of the executive in the chamber to sit on that committee. That is a complete intrusion of the executive in this committee. I think that is a total contradiction of the whole purpose of the proposition which  Senator Murphy  is otherwise proposing in his motion. For those reasons  Senator Murphys  proposal is nol acceptable to the Democratic Labor Party. It intrudes the executive on to the parliamentary committee, lt has a designee of the Minister where we think that there should not be one. It provides this confrontation on the floor of the committee by the express representatives of the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Government in the Senate. If it were lo be the practice and principle for some reason good and sufficient that the nominees of these gentlemen should be there, I can see no logical reason or no reasion in justice why the leader of the second nongovernment party should not be on the committee if that principle is adopted. I am against that also. 
We believe that it would be most unwise of the Senate to agree to  Senator Murphy's  proposal because it discriminates particularly against the explicit acceptance of a minority group, not being our group, for membership of a committee by right and entitlement quite beyond the discretion of the Senate. The Senate might in conceivable circumstances deny  Senator Turnbull  membership of any committee. If he cannot agree with us and we say: 'No, we cannot agree', the matter goes to the Senate, which may deny  Senator Turnbull  membership of any committee. Our proposal writes in his entitlement, and the Senate cannot take it away. I believe that that is of vital importance. In other words, our proposal is for a parliamentary committee in the true sense of the term, a back bench committee in the true sense of the term, a committee that will be segregated from the Executive in the true sense of the term and a committee that will represent all groups in the Senate in the accepted and true sense of the term. For those reasons, and without intruding unduly upon the time of the Senate, 1 have moved our amendment. 
This is, in a complete sense, a suitable mode of experimentation. There will be 2 committees. This will give an opportunity for the administrative staff of the Senate to see what staff are necessary, for Hansard to see what is necessary, for  the Budget costs to be estimated and to be projected into the final establishment of the totality of committees. Yet all senators will have an opportunity of participating and of learning the practice of the standing committees and the processes under which they will operate. In these circumstances I consider that the resolution before the Senate has everything to commend it and I in turn commend it to honourable senators. 
asked the Minister  representing  the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Are Statutes identical with, or substantially identical with, the Queensland Farmer Assistance (Debts Adjustment) Act 1967 in operation in other States (being a re-enactment of a Statute of 1935-36). 
What are the amounts in the respective State Funds - called in Queensland 'The Federal Aid Rehabilitation Fund'. 
Are not such Funds, created by moneys made available by the Commonwealth, to be applied for the benefit of farmers. 
How many applications for money have been made in each of the States in which the legislation exists, in each of the last 5 years. 
If this information is not held by the Federal Government, can such information be obtained. 
As the legislation is for the express relief of primary producers economically affected by drought is the Minister satisfied that primary producers are familiar with the legislation and their rights under it. 
What moneys have been made available by the Commonwealth to the States, individually, since the inception of the scheme. 
What amounts have been made available to each State in each of the last 5 years. 
 I speak on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. We support the motion. It seems to provide for proper representation as between the existing political groups in the Senate and also for any possible development in the political distribution in this chamber. We hope that, with the co-operation of all concerned, this  committee  system, which is a tremendous pioneering project in the operation of the Senate and parliamentary government in this country, will operate successfully. I make only one comment. We are living in a state of experimentation. First of all, we are making an experiment with the sitting hours of the Senate. Consideration is already being given to whether we should sit for 2 consecutive weeks. This proposal has to be fitted into that programme and into other programmes. Therefore, I believe that a good deal of understanding, goodwill and reciprocal sacrifies will be necessary if this system is to be operated successfully. I believe that every effort will be made by honourable senators to see that it works effectively. This is a challenge to the Senate and to senators. I am sure that both will meet the challenge effectively. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The history preceding this motion which is now presented to the Senate is very well known to honourable senators. Actually, there was a motion which emanated from the Australian Democratic Labor Party regarding the limitation on the number of committees immediately to be established. The attitude of our Party was defined then, and I do not think it is necessary to redefine it. We were embarking upon a unique experiment in parliamentary government in this chamber. It was an embarkation, an exercise, which should be approached with the greatest prudence and caution. We must not forget that whatever our particular interests might be in this matter, the establishment of a host of committees will be accompanied by the expenditure of considerable amounts of public money. For this Parliament to embark immediately, as an experiment, on the establishment of 7 committees, with the attendant administrative setup and the attendant costs, may have been something that would be quite unwarranted and unjustified. 

 Senator Murphy makes the point ; quietly and clearly ; that he considered that his initial motion for the establishment of 7 committees had received the endorsement of the Senate and that the immediate bringing into life of 2 of them was a departure from that principle. I cannot agree with  Senator Murphy's  proposition. I think that the object of this is, as distinct from  Senator Murphy's  original proposition, that the principle for the establishment of 7 committees was defined in  Senator Murphy's  motion. To give any of these committees life, that is to give them administrative setup, activation was subject to my proposal which is now, to some extent, embodied in the motion before the Senate. Therefore, with respect, I cannot agree with  Senator Murphy.  He may have his own interpretation of the meaning to be given to his own resolution. I find myself unable to agree with that. 
To my way of thinking and to the thinking of our Party, it was a definition in principle with some spelling out of the number of committees. But this is activation of 2 of them. I think, as I said earlier when speaking on the establishment of the estimates committees, that the wisdom of the proposal is now becoming apparent. There are 3 propositions before the Senate. There is the proposition to alter the sitting hours generally in the Senate. That in itself is an experiment in the procedures and in the time to be occupied by this chamber. We now have the establishment of estimates committees. That again is a pioneering exercise by this chamber. We are going to grasp on to these 2 periods of experimentation. This third one is the establishment of a number of standing committees. I think that in those circumstances, apart from anything else, prudence dictates that we should embark very quietly on this in a process of gradualism. Therefore, without further ado, I support the motion. I do not see it as a departure from the spirit or the text of the resolution originally proposed by  Senator Murphy  and adopted by the Senate. I make the point that even though only 2 committees are to be established it will be open to any senator other than a senator appointed to any one of those committees by his Party, or any number of senators, to attend and with the consent of that committee to participate in the discussions of that committee. Therefore, in the period of experimentation all senators will have an opportunity to serve and to be identified actively with the standing committees. It will be a period of training for honourable senators. 
Debate interrupted. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Yesterday I received a reply from him to my question asking for particulars of the operation of the Farmers' Assistance (Debts Adjustment) Acts in the States being complementary legislation to the Commonwealth Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act 1935-50. According lo that reply, of the $15,934,000 originally provided to the States by the Commonwealth for the relief of farmers affected by drought, there are credits totalling $7,698,201 standing in the States' funds in the following amounts: New South Wales, $279,514; Victoria, $4,387,946; Queensland, $1,507,773; South Australia, $804,636; Western Australia, $430,244 and Tasmania, $288,088. Can the Minister inform me, firstly, whether these funds are being applied by the States in terms of the arrangement for the relief of farmers in the present rural emergency? Secondly, is it necessary to reactivate the legislation? Thirdly, if so, will the Commonwealth consult with the States with a view to making the funds available to primary producers? Fourthly, will the Commonwealth also provide further funds to these accounts where necessary, as Commonwealth payments were discontinued in 1943? 
1 rise fairly early in the debate, speaking on behalf of the Democratic Labor Part)', to indicate the attitude of my Party to the motion for disallowance of this regulation. The attitude of the Democratic Labor Party is that in the circumstances of this case the motion for disallowance should not be supported and that the regulation should stand. Quite often we find difficulties arising in our consideration of this principle. Difficulties arise very frequently now in the discussion of many matters that come before the Senate. It is this question which has arisen also in relation to the fixation of salaries, more particularly of allowances, of officers, particularly  senior officers, of the Commonwealth Public Service, where there has been some disputation in this place between those who feel that these should be fixed by statute and those who feel, that they should more properly, and perhaps more conveniently, be fixed by regulation. Both views are firmly held and held with integrity. In either case it becomes a matter of interpretation as to the limits of the authority and discretion that may be vested in the public administration. Approaching it from different points of view, different conclusions were reached. This is another example of the dichotomy that arises in the approach to the determination of this question. 
It is unfortunate that this matter has to be considered in that twilight zone where there is a fear that a lacuna will occur. A hiatus will arise if this regulation is disallowed because that ultimately must, as a matter of practical public administration, affect the determination of this body, whereas perhaps it is not right that k should be permitted to so affect the determination of this body, because after all the Senate has a power and a responsibility to disallow a regulation if it offends certain principles. That discretion and that power should be able to be exercised in a condition of complete impartiality and quite divorced from the practical consequences which may arise if the regulation is, in a particular situation, disallowed. As a practical body functioning in the Parliament we have a duty to see that the public administration is allowed to proceed. Actually that is the unfortunate dilemma that arises in this case. But quite apart from that a substantive question arises as to whether this regulation does offend the principles which are traditionally laid down as to the functions of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee whose members have brought a great deal of thought and enthusiasm to this matter. 
In the Public Service Act the formula by which appointments are made to the Second and Third Divisions of the Public Service is laid down by statute. It is a formula which has received the legislative approval of both Houses of Parliament. It remains undisturbed in the statute. I am advised that the purport of the proposed legislation is to do in relation to Third and Fourth Division officers what the Parliament itself has done by statute in relation to the appointment from outside the Public Service of Second and Third Division officers. Perhaps the Parliament has erred in the way in which it embodied the formula in the legislation or in the formula that it embodied. Nevertheless that is the decision of Parliament and that stands until the legislature itself moves to abandon or replace that formula or to qualify it. If we disallow this regulation the Parliament would be put in the very strange position where one chamber has enunciated a body of principles quite out of harmony with the opinion expressed in legislation by the Parliament as a whole. If we find dissatisfaction with the formula as embodied in the section and as reflected in the proposed legislation, the proper approach is to review the statutory enactment to ensure that the formula does satisfy the demands of the Parliament in relation to the protection of individual rights of members of the Public Service. That becomes more evident when I think of the developing lacuna in the event that this regulation is disallowed. As a matter of practical administration I can see the difficulties which are inevitably associated with an attempt to spell out in great detail the criteria which will be called upon by the public administration in its approach to the exercise of its administrative discretion. 
In these days of great movement of people and the tremendous immigration that has taken place persons who may be in the Third and Fourth Divisions and transfer from the lower to the higher grade may come to the Commonwealth Public Service endowed with a multiplicity of qualifications from an enormous number of institutes of learning in all parts of the world - perhaps different language institutes from one country or another - and it is a question whether the qualifications of the technical institute of education in X city and Y country are comparable with those of a similar level of education in Australia and whether they could properly be accepted in this country. In view of the multiplicity of all these institutions, qualifications and standards surely it is impossible for any regulation to lay down any worthwhile workable and viable criteria which could be followed without ultimately doing grave injustice and disservice to the people it was proposed to benefit. 
I have been provided with a set of what we might call the guidelines which are followed by the public administration in a host of offices within the Public Service. These are not merely guidelines for the administration but are available to prospective applicants who. consulting them, might see, in a general sense, whether they have qualifications which approximate to those or which might be held to be compliant with them. Looking through those guidelines I think it would be totally impossible in any practical way to embody the criteria in any regulation or ordinance which would have any value at all. One is working in a constantly changing scene. Educational standards are changing. The qualifications issued by educational institutions are constantly changing. The types of examination are changing. They are being abandoned, replaced, upgraded and downgraded. We know that in this country the public examination system has been discarded for the internal certification system by the institutes of learning. In this constantly changing scene if we attempt to spell out criteria in the statute as is suggested in the motion, in a very short period of time the statute would be totally unworkable. The Parliament would be asked day after day and hour after hour to amend these minor criteria in the section embodied in the legislation. That would be not only very bad parliamentary practice but also it would be totally bad public administration practice. 1 do not criticise anybody for this, but undoubtedly we must attempt to find some proper reconciliation between a proper and adequate protection of the rights of the individual and the exercise and imposition of discipline, public order and the function of the administration. That is the problem which has to be resolved. I cannot see that here there is any violation in any degree at all of what might be called the proper and adequate protection of the people whom it is intended to protect. There was some interjection across the chamber. A question asked whether the union concerned was interested in this proposed regulation and whether there was any objection.  Senator Wheeldon  asked by way of comment whether it would be expected that a report of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee should be in every case referred to the appropriate body of employees. That is a fair question, but 1 do not think it is the question. It is not Whether the report of this Committee should be referred to an appropriate body but whether the fact that the proposed regulation when brought to its attention attracts no resentment is at least an acceptance by thai body that individual rights are not impugned. 1 admit that that is not necessarily the final test. 
The unions may have different criteria from the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. Its criteria would not occur to them. It is a question of the powers of the Parliament as against the powers of the Executive. That is a matter which properly comes within the ambit of the Committee's interest or duty. The other aspect is whether there is a trespass upon the rights of the individual concerned. Surely the fact that the union made no response, knowing of the regulation, knowing of its implication and knowing the regulation which was repealed, is some support for the suggestion that there is no trespass on the rights of the individual. 
That may be so. That is a refinement. I presume that this body is equipped, that it has advisers, that it is alert and that it is sensitive - as we know trade union organisations are and should be - to trespass upon individual or group rights. 
That may be right but nevertheless it is. support for the suggestion that there is no undue imposition upon the rights of the individual that the union itself has not been concerned. I do not propose to pursue this matter at any great length. While I acknowledge the sensitivity of the Committee in this field I think we have to be careful of one thing and that is that sensitivity on rights of this kind does not move into the field of academic theory so that it finds itself totally out of harmony with particular administration. All of these things must be reconciled.  Senator Gair  and others who have had the responsibility of public administration know that Ministers must be vested with discretion. It has been said of frauds in the banking system that all the audit systems in the. world and .  all financial controls will break down when an individual fails in. his trust. Where discretions must be given it is necessary to rely on their being, in the majority of cases, properly exercised. If all discretions were to be removed from the. Public Service Board or, as has been suggested today, they were to be removed from Ministers and fixed rigidly in legislation, public administration would inevitably begin quickly to come to a standstill. For those reasonswere not find it possible on this occasion to support the motion for the disallowance of the regulation. 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South Australia) ([3.16]  -  I support the motion. It seems that I am one of the members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee who was not present at the vital meeting. It has been said that I was not present. If my memory is correct, when the meeting was held I was up in the clouds waiting for the fog to lift at Canberra airport, on my way to attendthe meeting. I think that  Senator Wheeldon  was similarly placed on that occasion. 1 wish to say a few words about the prestige of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee which has, in the past, been eulogised by honourable senators for the work it has done over the years in examining regulations and reporting on whether they have involved an infringement of civil rights. In the Committees TwentyNinth Report, which it submitted to Parliament this year, it said in paragraph 7: 
The Committee has always held that where regulations confer- upon an authority a discretionary power affecting the rights of individuals, that authority should be bound by some criteria set out in the regulations in exercising its discretion. 
No-one is suggesting that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is infallible, that it cannot make mistakes. When it does make mistakes, it is the responsibility of the Senate to knock out the Committee's recommendaion for disallowance of a regulation. 
These early references to 2 of the 7 standing committees give us an opportunity perhaps quickly to make an appreciation of exactly what is to be the function of the standing committees in the context of the whole Senate system in relation to committees. Unfortunately this principle of the appointment of standing committees was accompanied by some difference of opinion between the Opposition, the Government and members of the Democratic Labor Parly as to the number of committees and the time for their constitution. This difference of opinion arose in circumstances which all would have preferred to have been resolved without such conflict. However, I would not like honourable senators to think, from what 1 am saying on this occasion, that my speech in any sense is in pursuance of that conflict. It is an attempt to get down to a working proposition and to examine how we will use the standing committees and what role they will play. 
In the first place, it was never intended that the standing committee should be a substitute for the select committee. I think that is the first principle to be remembered. It would be a tremendous disadvantage to the Senate if the standing committees were to exclude the select committees from operation and from viability within the Standing Orders. I think we are conscious of the fact that a select committee, by its nature, can perform functions and is equipped to do things that a standing committee, which may have a number of references, which may sit in a different manner from a select committee and which probably will not have the same opportunities for travel, is not equipped to do. 
1 will come to that. Like the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  my comments will be general as to the position of standing and select committees.  Senator Murphy  has raised particularly the subject of drought as a matter of reference. The Democratic Labor Party is particularly enthusiastic that this subject should come under scrutiny by the appropriate committee. As a matter of fact, we take some pride in the fact that we perhaps were the first Party in Australia to advert publicly to the necessity for some kind of investigation on the subject. I quote from the policy speech of the Democratic Labor Party in 1 969. 

 Senator Gair said: 
I  am disturbed at the way in which various emergency situations - requiring both State and Commonwealth liaison and action - have been badly handled in recent years. 
Drought relief is a current example of the confusion and time-wasting which often occurs. 
What Australia needs is a permanent secretariat, consisting of State and Federal officials, ready to anticipate and study natural disasters, evolve contingency plans, and act as the co-ordinating body when asked to. 
Very often, quick action is required. You don't get quick action under the present cumbersome Public Service system. 
Recently at a Federal Executive meeting of the Party that policy was reiterated and some publicity was given to it. Therefore our Party is enthusiastic about the discussion and investigation of this matter. If a select Committee of the Senate to look at this were proposed or were the will of the Senate, we would support that 
No, we did not vote against it. If we did it was not on the basis of that but because we already had our own resolution and our own attitude to this matter. 
It would be a permanent secretariat of Commonwealth and State officials, properly equipped financially, to have matters under constant investigation and review not merely to evolve a plan but to have a plan constantly operating and available. 
Yes, a national organisation. 
As I understand it,  Senator Murphy's  motion proposes that a standing committee of the Senate should investigate with the view to the emergence of some sort of natural disaster plan. 
We contemplated and announced something of that character in our policy speech. Just what form it would take may be a matter for parliamentary investigation to lay down the metes and bounds, the constitution and mode of operation of such a body. But again I say it is of such magnitude that it is appropriate, if it is to be discussed by the Parliament - and if it is hoped that something like that would emerge - it should be in the hands of a select committee expressly and specifically directed to that question. 
I am not familiar now with the reference which  Senator Murphy  mentions, but that has been our policy and remains our policy and it has recently been underlined. As I said, the select committee was not intended to be ousted by the standing committee. It would be most unfortunate if that were to happen. 
I would like to comment on a number of matters that  Senator Murphy  mentioned in the course of his address. First, he referred quite a number of questions to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. The very fact that  Senator Murphy  puts four or five major questions to this Committee inevitably requires that they will stand in some sort of queue for consideration. I think it has been the will of the Senate - if I remember correctly,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack particularly was insistent on this - that when matters are referred to select committees they be not permitted unduly to prolong the presentation of the committee reports. Time limits have been imposed.  Senator Davidson  can correct me if 1 am wrong, but I think there was a motion passed which gave the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution an extension of time for the presentation of its report because of circumstances, but the Senate showed that it did so reluctantly and expressed the opinion that time limits should be imposed and that investigations should not go on indefinitely. 
The fact that 4 major matters are referred to I standing committee means inevitably that from the time of the first reference there will be no report for perhaps years. That would appear to me by its nature to contradict the point of view which has been expressed by the Senate in relation to select committees. I would therefore say that the sheer number of references put forward in  Senator Murphy's  motion, quite apart from their weight and impact, would seem to contradict what was the prevailing view of the Senate. My recollection is that that attitude was supported by  Senator Murphy  rather insistently. 
I am talking about the whole approach, as  1  said, to the question of standing committees and the multitudinous references to them. Now  1  come to the question of the weight of the references and the type of matter under investigation. Standing committees necessarily will involve many senators who have other duties to perform. It could be that if there are a number of heavy and prolonged references to a number of committees senators will not be able to bring their minds continuously to an investigation and determination of the one subject. Senators will be running from committee to committee; investigations will be protracted over a long period; the continuity will be lost, and possibly the personnel on the committees will change. We know that the personnel has changed in  1  significant committee here over the  3  years it has been in operation. That is entirely unsatisfactory. 
Exactly. They could not do the job. Chairmen have in the meantime been translated to other positions and others have had to step into their places and try to pick up the threads of the investigation. That is necessary where it is a very heavy reference and where the investigation takes a protracted period; but to impose all those situations on a standing committee seems to me to be totally improper. 
 For example,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson referred to the Repatriation Act. I would imagine a reference such as this. There has been a lol of disputation in this chamber as to whether the appropriate section of the Repatriation Act dealing with the onus of proof provision was operating to the welfare or to the detriment of the claimant. That is a matter which quite appropriately could be a specific reference to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. I give that as only  1  minor illustration. I could think of many other similar situations. The one I have mentioned could be a reference. The area of investigation would be in a comparatively narrow compass. It would be specific and factual, and the report could be presented promptly. 
 If that were so it would still be more limited than a total investigation of the Repatriation Department, which obviously may be a matter of major concern. In this chamber there has already been a suggestion that the question of mentally and physically retarded children should be referred to a select committee of the Senate. That has already received in broad terms the general approbation of the Senate. I refer to  Senator Fitzgerald's  motion, which was not formally operative. 
 It was the subject of  Senator Fitzgerald's  proposal and it is now the subject of a motion for a select committee on the private members' part of the business sheet. Our Party will be prepared to support the establishment of such a committee, consonant with only one thing - that wc cannot extend the physical resources of the Senate or the administrative staff beyond breaking point. With the Estimates committees operating, with the standing committees operating, with a series of select committees and now possibly the emergence of some joint standing committees there may be a physical limit on what we can do. But consistent with that and the priority which we think should be given to one or other reference, we would be prepared to support that, as we indicated at the time to  Senator Fitzgerald,  to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and to the Senate. 
For those reasons, addressing myself as the Leader of the Government did to the general question of the co-existence of standing committees and select committees, I say that it has been the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party right from the inception of this proposal that the matter should be approached with prudence and restraint. Therefore I think that specific references in a narrow field would be better. There will be plenty of them and there will be plenty of opportunities. I have mentioned one. I have no doubt that it will not be beyond the ingenuity of those who have had occasion to advert to these in the course of years of debate to see that these references are made. If four or five references in this limited Be:d , were made to a standing committee I would not have the objection that 1 have to the four or five major exploratory references which  Senator Murphy.  I know in good faith, has been prepared to put down. For those reasons our Party does not feel it can support these series of resolutions but we support a reference on drought to the appropriate committee. 
If the honourable senator wants to resurrect the debate I shall be happy to discuss the matter. I point out to  Senator Murphy  that I have done my best not to intrude party political considerations into this debate. I think that my objection has been put quite objectively. I expressly at the beginning adverted to the fact that I did not wish to pursue any differences that might have occurred in the original creation of these committees. We were trying to look at it impartially in the present context. Therefore I do not wish to enter into a political confrontation on this question but merely to say that we would support an appropriate select committee to investigate this problem, hoping that our proposition and that our policy might emerge as one of the recommendations. For those reasons we find that we are unable to support these references - I deal with them all in globo - while we would be prepared to support references to select committees, consonant, as 1 say. with the availability of staff and the availability of senators. 
I think if all these matters were referred it would be very bad to have so many matters referred and not dealt with. I think it should be a matter of concern to the Senate. It would expose the Senate to a charge of irresponsibility. I am sure senators would finally be very concerned to be members of a committee to which there were standing references, none of which could be dealt with under a number of years. It could well be that we could have a standing reference made today that could be dealt with for 2 years and in the meantime a matter of very much greater consequence might emerge that would require a reference; we would immediately have to dismiss the one that had been there for 2 years and insert another. Undoubtedly that would provoke to protestation - naturally so - those who were interested in the first reference but it would show the total undesirability of such a position being allowed to develop. So for these reasons, while welcoming the making of references within the metes and bounds that I have suggested, wc find we are unable to support the motions proposed by  Senator Murphy.  In the particular case of the motion before the Chair at the moment, dealing with the reference concerning national disasters, we find ourselves unable to support that. 
I merely rise to speak for the Democratic Labor Party and to say that we support and welcome this Bill and the proposition which is involved in it. I think  Senator Milliners  point was well made and has implications beyond what he said. This 
Bill of course is to assist by providing a bounty for printers who print books in Australia for State or Commonwealth governments. In the absence of such a bounty that printing is done outside. First of all that is bad, in one sense, in that a modern nation like Australia should attempt to command in available numbers all the available technical skills. After all the presentation of the publications of a nation in the modern world of communication is of great importance and significance. Nations can be known for the level and standard of their various presentations or of their manufactures just as some nations are known for their manufacture of pottery or glassware. It is to be regretted if inferior publications were to emerge from Australia because of the absence of skilled staff to present them. 

 Senator Milliner said that the Commonwealth Government printery is obviously well behind in ils work and the reason for that undoubtedly would be a shortage of trained manpower. We will continue in that unfortunate condition unless we stimulate the printing industry generally and provide it with work on an economic basis which will attract employment and attract apprentices to the industry. Therefore I would regard this measure as having 2 purposes. First, it will assist Australian publishers, Secondly, it will expand employment and training opportunities for young men in Australia interested in printing and ultimately will help to relieve the tremendous shortage of technicians which has the consequences to which  Senator Milliner  has referred. On behalf of the Democratic Labor Party I welcome this Bill. We support it. 
Obviously certain things are emerging with great clarity in the course of this discussion. Some of the matters which have arisen are complex. There is an area of speculation and an area of pragmatism. We accept as a pragmatic situation that the flow of legislation is not from this place to the House of Representatives but from the House of Representatives to this chamber, in the main. Much as we might like to speak of the independence of the Senate, and it is an independent body in a constitutional sense, the actual work flow comes from the other place. As a matter of fact the House of Representatives has determined a new time schedule and, whether we like it or not, we are now in the position where we must have cognisance of that and accommodate ourselves to it so far as is consistent with the independence of the Senate. That, I believe, is why the Senate is of the opinion that we should accommodate ourselves to a cycle of 3 weeks. There remains only the question of whether we should specify more particularly than that.  Senator Murphy's  original proposition was for a specification of the actual sitting days. 
lt has been put forward that there should be a specification. Perhaps the proposition was not advanced by  Senator Murphy;  I have not been in the chamber for the whole of the discussion. Let us look again at the existing position. 
The Senate is in a position of complete fluidity so far as its sitting arrangements are concerned; We have all sorts of new arrangements. We have a plethora of committees and new time schedules which are fairly acceptable to the Senate have been proposed. I think that the worst thing that we could do would be to determine at this stage a new schedule of sitting days. I think the proper thing for us to do is to accept the cycle of 3 weeks and to pursue the existing time schedule of 3 days for each of the 2 weeks until the Senate other' wise determines. 
I agree. The original suggestion was exactly that, that we should accept the 3 weeks cycle and that the actual sitting days then be decided upon by the Senate as the occasion arises.  Senator Murphy  has suggested that the words *as the occasion arises' might be deleted so that we can achieve a concurrence on the principle. I do not disagree with what  Senator Murphy  proposes, but what will be the effect of the removal of those words? Does it mean that in a month's time or in a fortnight's time the Senate will lay down finally for all time the sitting days, or does it mean that from day to day the Senate will determine when it will sit in the next week and in the week following that? 
If I understand what the Leader of the Government has said, it would inject a degree of rigidity if the words 'as the occasion arises' were deleted. 
In the absence of those words, at what point of time and by what method would the Senate determine the hours? 
In other words, it would not be done every week but would be done at the beginning of the session for the whole of the session, until the Senate elected to change the sessional orders. As I understand the position, if these words were deleted, the principle of the cycle would be adopted and the Senate at the beginning of a session would lay down by sessional order the sitting days within that cycle. 
That programme would exist and persist during the session unless the Senate otherwise determined. Is that the position? 
If the sessional order laid that down, what would happen if the Senate wanted to depart from that? 
That is, unless otherwise ordered by resolution, which is really the same thing as 'as the occasion arises'. 
The position is that we have a resolution and we have a proposal by  Senator Murphy,  with  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's concurrence, to delete certain words from it. I was trying to get clarification of what would be the implications of such a deletion.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson feels that if he is given the opportunity to speak again he can clarify the position. Therefore, I would be prepared to resume my seat and give leave to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson to explain the implications of this deletion. 
Amendment - by leave - withdrawn. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party, which would have 1 senator on the committee, supports the proposal for membership of the Committee to include 3 senators. I think that if the other suggestion embodies in the amendment were adopted it would be rather unusual. In this regard the Government has made a gesture by allowing 2 non-government senators on this Committee as against one nongovernment senator as the Senate representation. I think that is rather unusual. 
 I think the usual thing is to have a majority of Government Senators on a committee. For example, 1 notice that in ali the select committees the Government has at least parity or a majority as against non-government senators. 
No, not from the Senate. 
Of course, that is being clever. 
The DLP does no such thing. The Australian Labor Party always votes with the Government against my Party. We often vote for you against the Government. We find it is very seldom you support us. I do not want to make a political issue of this.  Senator Willesee  has suggested it should not be. The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the motion and rejects the amendment. My Party would be very happy to serve on this most valuable Committee. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - I would be grateful if the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  could clarify just what is the proposed object of the debate that will proceed on this motion after the conclusion of the debate on the Budget Papers. This would be a matter for major and detailed consideration, and unless the whole of the machinery were laid down at that time we might well find ourselves referring matters to the committees with a short time available and the machinery not yet in operation or established. So, I wonder whether the Minister would be good enough to indicate just how far that debate will go and just what we will be trying to conclude; in other words, whether the whole of the organisation and the machinery will be decided when this motion comes up for debate and whether decisions will be made so that when we come back after the short recess we can go forward immediately with the references to the committees - the machinery, the procedures and the time schedules then being known. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) - by leave - The reason why I am circulating this document today is that I would not want the Senate to have a preempted debate on these procedures before 1 move the relevant motion. In fact, the motion that I will move is to be found at page 11 of the document that has been circulated. It is the normal motion for reference of the Estimates to the Committee. It is hoped - perhaps it is a vain hope on my part - that by presenting this document and everybody working it over in his own way between now and when I move this motion, which will probably be on Thursday afternoon, sufficient of the machinery will have been forecast and the proposed timetable will be such that this will be considered and accepted as being the normal modus operandi. If the Senate, in its judgment, thinks otherwise, when I move the motion the Senate will use it as the vehicle to alter the procedure. Honourable senators will see that on the first page of the document 1 have said:  lt is hoped that the Senate will be in a position to commence the committee consideration on the Estimates on 15th September and the proposed timetable has been prepared on that basis. The timetable, however, must of course remain subject to the will of the Senate. 
It will determine the matter. I am putting forward a set of proposals after reference to the  President  and with the very good offices and tremendous help of  Mr Odgers  and his staff. I am hoping that when we come to Thursday the Senate will accept this procedure, but the Senate can change it if it wants to. 
At what time on Thursday do you think this may come on for debate? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI hope that it will come on for debate on Thursday afternoon. We will deal with General Business after 8 o'clock on Thursday night. When we come to the question of the placing of business, I propose to speak to the Senate on that aspect. 

 Senator BYRNE (Queensland)- by leave - I am concerned because this is a very difficult document and one that will take a lot of discussion. I imagine that many suggestions on it could be made because it deals wilh the powers of chairmen, the functions of chairmen, the mode of reporting and the form of reports; and, unless all these matters are concluded on Thursday afternoon so that the Estimates then stand ready for reference to the committees on resolution of the Senate, no machinery will be operating. I strongly doubt whether there will be adequate time for the Senate to discuss and reach conclusions on a document of this complexity and this nature in the few hours that will be available on Thursday afternoon. That is my concern. If that is not done, we will have no machinery available when we resume after the short recess and when the matters will then stand referred to the committees. The point that concerns me is the time schedule for the discussion of this document. 
Yes. Our Party is prepared to support the establishment of a select committee and we are prepared to serve on it. Even with our limited numbers and with the knowledge of the strain it would put on our physical resources in serving on a multitude of committees, we are prepared to serve on such a committee. Therefore at the appropriate time we would be prepared to facilitate a proposition for a select committee. If that comes forward, the honourable senator can be assured of our support. We think that that would be the most fruitful manner in which this question could be pursued and concluded. I indicate that we are unable to support the proposed reference to the Standing Committee. 
This debate has been initiated naturally by a Tasmanian senator, and the debate .has been confined almost exclusively to Tasmanian senators - I think up to this stage completely exclusively. Therefore, apart from the duty I have to address myself to the chamber in order to present the position of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, 1 can claim some minor entitlement in the other role because of the strong Tasmanian connections of my family; my mother and 2 sisters having been born in Tasmania. So I have a double entitlement to participate in this debate. 
I commend  Senator Rae  for bringing this motion forward, first of all because it is a matter of great concern to Tasmania, it is a matter of urgency and it is a matter, in my opinion, appropriate for early reference to one of the newly appointed standing committees. By its nature it is circumscribed in area. It is capable of rapid investigation and of early report. These seem to me to be conditions precedent to a proper reference, as I have expressed before, to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. Tasmania does suffer very grave disabilities because of its geographical situation and its reliance on sea transport. It is more evident, perhaps, to Tasmanians than it is to mainlanders, how grave these disabilities are and how long it has taken to rectify them. This investigation may well expose the whole position not only to the scrutiny of the Senate and of the Parliament, but also to public scrutiny and so stimulate the solicitude of the rest of Australia for the Tasmanian problem. Therefore, the DLP has very much pleasure in supporting this reference. 
 I am not equipped in this field. Candidly, I have not given it any particular attention. But I think that  Senator Lillico's  point is well made. The whole trading operations of the Australian National Line must be taken as a unity. Naturally, if there is a loss in one segment of an industrial or commercial complex, that loss will be spread by adding to the costs in some other range, so that a general level of profitability or reduced loss can be maintained. That, of course, can be a very serious disability to Tasmania. 

 Senator Wriedt, in a considered speech on this matter, has presented an amendment which he feels might extend the operations and area of investigation by the Committee. I do not oppose  Senator Wriedt's  amendment merely because it comes from  Senator Wriedt  or anything of that character. I think that he brings the amendment forward with the very best motives and under some apprehension that the original motion might be a little circumscribed. I find myself unable to agree with that. When I look at the precise terms of the motion 1 notice, for example, that it refers to 'governing legislation' which, of course, would include not only statutory legislation but also regulatory legislation and administrative decisions. I think, therefore, that that term governs those heads that are mentioned in the amendment. In relation to the other head, that is the desirability to overcome the economic disabilities, it appears to me that that is governed by the reference 'legislation to enable the operation to be carried out at the lowest possible freight rate'. That obviously goes to the question of consequent economic disabilities in the event the freight rate is higher than otherwise might be possible. For those reasons, I feel that we would be unduly precious to add this amendment to the motion which I think is sufficiently explicit and embracing. For those reasons we find that we are unable to support the amendment. We support the motion presented by  Senator Rae.  The Democratic Labor Party welcomes investigations by the 2 standing committees which have been established. The Standing Committee on Health and Welfare is one to which the independent senator,  Senator Turnbull,  has been nominated. .The Democratic Labor Party will not have representation on that Committee. But on the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade our nominee is the leader of the Democratic Labor Party,  Senator Gair,  and if he cannot attend then possibly some other member of the Party will attend. We commend the motion before the Senate. 
We now have before the Senate the motion moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson in his private senatorial capacity and an amendment which has been moved by  Senator Bull  that this matter be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. We are dealing with a particularly important and significant part of the opportunities that private members have in any Parliament to present points of view by way of questions and to elicit information from the Government. The rights of private members must be always jealously protected. After all, there are specific provisions written into our Standing Orders which give private members the right on certain days to present their own propositions and have them debated. Other opportunities are given and this is one of such opportunities. 
The practice at the moment, if I am correct, is that if a question on notice is asked and it comes up for reply on a day on which the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast, the senator by leave of the Senate can ask to be allowed to state the question and have the answer given from the Senate floor. On days on which the proceedings of the Senate are not broadcast the answer will be incorporated in Hansard unless the senator indicates to the  President  to the contrary in advance. This seems an eminently reasonable proposition and one which, with the application of the good sense of any particular senator, enables all matters of some significance to him or to the country or to the Senate to receive the maximum publicity here on the debating floor of the parliamentary chamber. I would think it would take a tremendously cogent reason to throw this practice overboard and to substitute for it what is contemplated in the motion. 
After all, a question which is put on notice is not necessarily a less significant or important question than one that is asked without notice. It may be a question of a different type which requires some time to enable an answer to be prepared and delivered. But the mere passage of time does not mean that the answer has lost either its significance or importance. On the contrary, when a question is asked it may be comparatively important, but with the passage of time it may assume a new importance which makes its presentation on the floor of the chamber of even greater significance than would have been the case when it was first asked. I think, therefore, that to truncate this right is something against which the Senate should set its face. 
The other proposition in  Senator Bull's  amendment is that this matter should be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. Normally I think that this is an eminently reasonable proposition. If I oppose it, I oppose it on grounds other than the reasonableness of the proposition. This is an important matter, and it is a particularly important matter to the nongovernment members of this chamber. Nongovernment back bench members and Government back bench members should have an opportunity to register a point of view by voting. If this matter goes back to the Standing Orders Committee, our Party, and I think  Senator Turnbull  as an independent, are not represented on that body. I protest here that that should be the case. If I am correctly informed, an attempt has been made to have this Party represented on the Standing Orders Committee but it has not succeeded. I think that is very much to be regretted. Therefore, we could not possibly support an amendment which would take this matter for initial discussion to a forum in which we are not represented. We should be eminently represented at the discussion of this matter. Therefore, for that reason I would have to oppose the amendment, much as I think it is the sensible way to do it. 
If, in its wisdom, the Senate thought fit that the non-official Opposition, the second non-government party in the Senate and  Senator Turnbull  as representing the independent, should find representation on the Standing Orders Committee, I would be quite happy that this or any other similar matter should be referred to that body for consideration in a leisurely manner, taking into account all the considerations, with members being given an opportunity to make written submissions and suggestions, and then the matter could come back to this chamber for final determination. But until that is done I would oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Bull  and I would oppose the motion moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. Although there will be individual voting on this matter,  Senator McManus  would concur with me in this point of view. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
With a view to the Standing Orders Committee being as representative as possible of the composition of the Senate at any time, the Senate resolves that: 
Standing order 33 be amended by omitting the words 'seven senators' and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'such other senators as may be appointed by the Senate'; and 

 Senator Gair be appointed a member of the Standing Orders Committee. 
I second the amendment which has been presented by  Senator Gair.  This debate is now in its dying stages after having progressed for some weeks and after a delay and intervention caused by the rising of the Senate for a week. Perhaps the more emotive responses to the contents of the Budget have now been dissipated by the passage of time. It has been fairly evident that that is the case because of the nature of the discussion of the Budget in this postponed period of its consideration. This run of speeches has been marked more by discussion of the Budget as a technical document and an analysis of it in the economic sense because of the role it plays in the control of the disciplined economy which is the kind of . economy that we have in Australia. 
I do not wish to protract unduly the discussion on this matter. I might say that I have been informed that our exercise in the embarkation of Committee discussions on the Estimates is contemplated for this afternoon, but due- to the way this discussion has proceeded it may not be possible to commence the deliberations of the committees as early as was hoped and expected. The services of a great number of departmental officers have been made available, so merely to protract this discussion would not be altogether warranted in the circumstances. Nevertheless, we have presented a very substantial amendment which requires at least some discussion and analysis. 
The discussion of the Budget at this stage of the debate has underlined certain things which are becoming manifest from year to year such as the increasing area of rigidity in the finances of the Australian nation. Revenue is determined according to the avenues which are available, but increasingly as governments move more and more into the conduct of society, instead of merely being remote and entering into normal administrative functions, it is inevitable that there will be  increasing demands for fixed commitments of the revenue. As we look at the Budget we find that that is so. Within any financial possibility the limitations on what one must do according to one's commitments, and what one may do according to one's political ideas or one's political philosophy, depend on the area of manoeuvrability which is available in the presentation of the financial accounts. As the fixed demands build up inevitably in the hands of one government or another of one complexion or another, the ability to manoeuvre and . the attempt to carry into administration some of the political ideas become increasingly circumscribed. We find that that is so when we analyse the accounts which are related to this Budget. 
The fixed commitments - that is, the inescapable commitments, those which may vary from year to year in amount but are fixed in obligation, either in political obligation or in contractual obligation - are things such as the defence commitment, payments to or for the States, social welfare payments, the ordinary administrative costs of the Government and matters of that character. They are all fixed commitments and they are all inescapable. Before the Budget can be used for any other purpose those commitments must be met in one degree or another, the only variation being perhaps to adjust to the increase due to the deterioration in the value of money and, if necessary, increases in demand on those services. That is continually injecting an increasing rigidity into the public account and is robbing it increasingly of its flexibility. That can be a very dangerous thing but it is becoming inescapable. 
In the area of what I call the rigidity of the Budget, the matter we have raised to the prime position in our amendment is the provision of Australian defence. We make no apologies for that because Australia today finds itself in an extraordinary position. We are still only a comparatively young nation and a comparatively undeveloped nation. In the normal course of history we might well have been given the opportunity to go about our affairs - building our population, developing our resources and building, .strengthening and extending our economy - without interrup-tion. But that has not been the fate of the Australian nation. In a very short period, of time we have been involved in 2 major wars, with all the economic consequences, population depletion and matters of that character. So already there has been a severe interruption of the historical growth of this nation. 
But today we find ourselves in a different position again. Whereas we might have expected a period of placidity in which we could go about our affairs, because of our geographical situation and developments in the world we find ourselves embroiled in international situations that must be faced. Fifty years ago the world was fairly rigidly defined in national areas or colonial areas. But over the past 25 years we have seen the fragmentation of the world and the emergence of new nations with all the problems that have come from that in the form of international discontent and international friction. We have also seen the emergence of aggressive political ideologies confronting one another or confronting the free world. We have seen these ideologies penetrating through the continent of Europe, and we now see them penetrating through the continent of Asia and the sub-continent of South East Asia. 
It is in this geographical situation that Australia exists and has been denied what we had hoped would have been a period of placidity in which national development could take place, because of our geographical remoteness from any areas of the world. We must accommodate the whole of our national existence to this new international situation and this new geographical situation in the area in which we are intimately involved. For that reason Australia cannot afford the privilege and comfort of going about her affairs as a young nation might have been permitted to do, might have been expected to do and might have been entitled to do, without having to assume all the obligations of maturity and to accept all the responsibilities of adulthood. But that is precisely what Australia is now required to do. 
To a major degree Australia has grown up very rapidly. She has been thrown on to the vast international stage. Those who protected her have had to go about their own affairs. Britain has found herself compelled to withdraw within the perimeter of her own existence and now orients herself towards Europe. The United States of America, to a major degree, finds herself in a similar position. Australia therefore is now in the position that she must pursue her national destiny independently, using her own resources, making her own national decisions, taking up her own international positions, adapting herself to international situations as she sees them and making her own decisions on defence, foreign affairs and international economic policy. These are very big things for the Australian nation to be called upon to do. 
In terms of the Latin phrase salus populest suprema lex - the safety of the people is the supreme law - we must necessarily, as a matter of national obligation, elevate the defence of Australia to a position of prime concern. This imposes extraordinary burdens upon this young nation at this stage of our development. Because this is so, we must continuously write into national Budgets firm and rigid commitments in the area of defence. Of course, these commitments will be great; they will be continuing; and they will be necessary. Despite all the talk in the world and no matter which party is in power, it will have to face up, in some degree or another, to the necessity for major defence votes for Australia in the context in which Australia finds herself. 
I do not propose to make this a speech on foreign policy; but, because we make a point of the inadequacy of the financial provision for the defence requirements of 
Australia in terms of the Government's own assessment, as we say in the first paragraph of our amendment, it may not be inopportune if I pause for a few moments to reflect on my own more recent associations with the countries immediately to our north. Earlier this year I was in Vietnam and Thailand. I do not propose to discuss those countries at this stage. In the last few weeks I have been in Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. Those are the areas in which, by the Australian military presence, the defence requirement to a major degree is committed. When one discusses the Australian presence with people of significance in those areas, one inevitably hears that they find it necessary, desirable and most welcome. They see the containment of Communism on the IndoChinese peninsula as something that will save the rest of South East Asia. They realise that they stand in the path of subversion and aggression from the north - not the mass aggression of great armies, but the insidious aggression of economic and physical subversion. They have no illusions about that. 
Somebody has asked: 'Who believes any longer in the domino theory?' Those countries say: 'We believe in the domino theory because we are dominoes'. They have no illusions about the fact that they stand in the path of aggression of that nature from the north. They say without equivocation that if Communism is not contained on the Indo-Chinese peninsula but breaks through into Thailand - there is already subversion on the Thai-Malay border - then almost immediately the sub-, version will be into Malaya and Malaysia. They know that, because of the communal problem that they have and because of a certain inbuilt communal instability due to racial differences, they are quite vulnerable to that type of subversion. Therefore they regard the Australian presence as an indication of our participation in their security and as a guarantee that there is an interest in the preservation of the integrity of those new nations who do not wish to be subverted so early in the history of their independence from the colonial powers. This is logical; this is reasonable; and this is what they are looking forward to Australia persisting in doing. 
When we move south and east of there we come to Indonesia, which very nearly failed to avoid a Communist takeover in  1965.  The extent of the Communist penetration there is still not known. That is why there are still camps for interrogation in an attempt to trace the tentacles of the Communist conspiracy. The Indonesians find that in their country there is an instability which creates a tremendous vulnerability to this process of subversion from the north. Again the Australian presence in that area - not of course in Indonesia - is a demonstration of the identification of this country with the security of that area. Quite apart from that, it is also an indication of our own concern for the security of this nation in a process of forward defence. If that is so, the provision of finance to back such defence commitments is an inseparable part of our national obligation but necessarily writes into the Budget a certain rigidity which again is inescapable. 
I come now to the other matter which . has been of great concern to the Democratic Labor Party, particularly as we all know during the House of Representatives election campaign last year, namely, the suggested welcomed accommodation to the Russian naval presence in the Indian Ocean. Again this is a matter that is of very grave concern to that part of the world. It was pointed out to me that the Strait of Malacca has ceased to assume the significance it once did and that the route across the southern Indian Ocean to the East Indies and that part of the world is now of very great importance. Hence, as somebody said, the Russian naval interest in this area. When we protested against this suggested policy of accommodation to the Russian naval presence, our protest was criticised as being almost an indication of mere prejudice and that we ' were fanatics in that regard. There are  2  major areas of concern. The United States and Great Britain are concerned about it. 
The presence of Australian and British troops in that part of the world and the presence of Australian and British naval, forces in the Indian Ocean are both considered there as being a tremendous demonstration that a vacuum of power will not be permitted to . live in South East Asia. The. great. powers, as is said in physics of ^ nature, abhor a vacuum. A vacuum is not destroyed merely by its being filled. It is destroyed by a presence within the area of the vacuum. It might be cynically asked whether we mean to say that the minor Australian naval and military presence in itself will fill the vacuum. We say nothing of the kind. We say to other powers who believe that nobody is interested to go in there that we are interested because we regard ourselves as part of this area and the security of this part of the world is part of our national concern. 
Therefore, if in this Budget we accept the rigidity of an adequate defence provision, limiting opportunities that might otherwise be given to a government for expenditure in other fields which it might be the wish of any government to engage in - to extend the social and cultural life of the community - this is one of the inescapable facts of Australian life at this period of our national development and this period of our history and of the world around us. We therefore accept- this element of rigidity as inescapable and as totally necessary. But, of course, when we come to the other areas of national concern, we say that those are the areas where there may . be opportunity for the projection in definite terms of political philosophies, the amelioration or extension of social security, or the extension of interest in education or science where they are not in the same sense rigid and necessary but certainly in degree are capable of more or less emphasis. 
That is where governments do have an opportunity if the finances are available to exploit their own political and social ideas. But again, the opportunity to do that is being gradually more and more circumscribed by other limitations in the Budget. Not the least of those limitations are those imposed by the financial responsibility which the Commonwealth has now assumed towards the States. On reading the Budget documents one is not apalled but concerned, not merely by direct grants to the States or tax reimbursements but by the multiplicity of specific grants for specific purposes which seem to proliferate and increase year by year. There are ad hoc grants, specific grants, temporary grants and things of that nature, all of which in time become a fixed financial cornmoment in the Budget. 
In terms of the presentation of the national accounts it is becoming increas ingly evident that any Budget today must in some sense only partially reflect the desires of the Government in any area of operation, and the Government cannot really give effect to what it would like to do. We make no apologies for the Government for the emphasis it places according to the distribution of moneys in its hands.  Senator Gair  last night made a most realistic approach to this matter. He spoke f rom long, political, parliamentary and governmental experience in pointing out that governments unfortunately at times have to prune where they would like to be generous. That is inescapable in the. modern world. We are concerned at whether this rigidity will be accepted as inevitable and whether governments will deny themselves all opportunity for manoeuvrability and generosity in terms of their political ideas. 
I think it was  Senator Cotton,  or perhaps it was  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, who made the point that inevitably the difficulties must increase unless our gross national income and gross national wealth can be enlarged. If not, there will be constriction from year to year until the Budget will become like the laws of the Medes and the Persians and in the hands of any government of any complexion, unless it can cut down on essential and fixed commitments like defence, we will get the difference only between Tweedledum and Tweedledee. Because we find that position developing today we should examine the whole structure of the nation to see whether we are exploiting, to the best advantage and as quickly as possible, the natural resources of the country and capital and manpower resources to increase the national wealth in order to have available the resources which will enable an enrichment and amelioration of the lives of the people. That is why we particularly draw attention to the condition of the primary industries. 
Australia is moving into a new position internationally and into many fields of commitment, but we are still basing the whole stucture of our national economy on the same concepts as we did 30, 40 or 50 years ago. We are still approaching our rural industries as if they had the same role in the economy as they had 50 years ago and as if they were as strong economically as they were at that time. Our approach is based on the assumption that they make the same contribution to the national wealth as they did 50 years ago and have the same opportunities, particularly opportunities for regeneration, after periods of low prices and poor seasons. That is totally unreal. If we continue on that basis budgets increasingly will become only formal documents of receipts and expenditure which do not project any positive political ideas. In other words, what is now necessary is a complete examination of the structure and infrastructure of the Australian economy to find at what points and by which reorganisation the matter can be approached and investigated to see that the national wealth is accumulated and developed as quickly as possible. 
As the rural economy has always traditionally provided a great part of our national wealth and is today threatened with a diminishing role in this respect, this problem particularly has to be handled not only in the economic and human interests of the people concerned, but because obviously resources in that field of the economy are not being used to best advantage. The physical resources of the people engaged and embroiled in that industry are not being used to the best advantage and they should be. Otherwise, we will not be able to give the. people of this country what we think are their entitlements and what we want to give them. 
Therefore, when we put these proposals forward in our amendment we do these things in a positive way. We differ from  Senator Murphy  in his proposed amendment because we consider, as  Senator Gair  has said, that the amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party was negative in concept. That result may stem from the fact that the Opposition, legitimately or not, considers that its role is to criticise rather than to proffer suggestions. I do not know, lt is a matter of interpretation. We have perferred  to put  forward positive propositions because, we feel that everybody in the Parliament has a contribution to make. Although a party is in Opposition, it should think positively and advance propositions. 
I was intrigued that  Senator Murphy  in his proposed amendment on behalf of the Opposition condemned the Budget because it is negative. I was intrigued because  Senator Murphy  in his own proposed amendment adopted the same attitude, which we describe as negative. That is why in general terms we propose to prefer the amendment which is now before the Senate.  Senator Gair  has dealt with the matters which are in what might be called the area of monoeuvrability' of the Budget. They are such things as maternity and child allowances and an increase in the pension at least to compensate for cost of living adjustments. I do not deal with matters of that character. I simply direct the attention of honourable senators to the fact that the propositions which we advance are really related to the structure of the economy so that if those items are handled properly the Parliament and the country will not be faced with the position with which they are faced in this Budget. 
In a more realistic assessment of the Budget after a period in which, as I have said, the emotive response has subsided, people are saying that perhaps this type of Budget in many degrees was almost inescapable. The worst thing about it is not that a Budget should be presented in terms which are unsatisfactory but that the nation has to accept it as being inescapable. That shows a departure, at the fundamental level, from the processes of government which would mean that such a Budget ought not to be presented. We must avoid Budgets of this kind. They can be avoided only by the processes of approach suggested by  Senator Cotton  and by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson - that is, increases in national income and national productivity. Honourable senators will note that most of the propositions in our amendment are positive in context and penetrate to the fundamentals of the Australian economy - fundamentals such as defence. Associated with that is paragraph (2) which deals with the armed forces and which is a proposition that the armed forces should be a career service which would attract people by the adequacy of the income salary remuneration. 
Paragraph (3) states that pensions should be taken out of politics. Again that is part of this method of attacking the whole infrastructure of the Australian economy, ft is not possible to consider a matter of such consequence as pensions in modern Australia merely by a periodic review of pensions by Parliament. This concept of determining pensions by some independent tribunal should be built into the Australian way of life in the same inseparable manner as the determination of wages by arbitration tribunals is now built into the arbitration system and into the system of wage fixation. The means test, of course, is ancillary to that and again goes to the issue of the fundamental Australian economy because it goes to the issue of the conservation of resources, to the building up of savings and to the use of investment capital. Paragraph (6) is tied in with that. National resources and capital have 3 components: National productivity, national income and national wealth. 
Paragraphs (8) and (9) are practical propositions on the nature and structure of the Australian economy which, if properly handled, will be reflected in the finances of the Budget and will enable the Budget to become a real and vital document from year to year, gradually advancing the conditions of the people, gradually enriching their lives and gradually extending their opportunities. For those reasons, and because of the limitation of time as a result of which I shall confine my remarks in the interests of the work of the Committees in considering the Estimates, I support the amendment which I seconded and which was moved by  Senator Gair.  I commend it to the Senate because of the positive nature of its proposals and because it puts forward suggestions which could be considered by the Government and which, if adopted by the Government, would in future years give it the opportunity to present Budgets which could be taken as a reflection of real advances in the community and which could inject into the nation that element of hope which is always so necessary. Therefore, I commend the amendment to the Senate. I trust that it will receive the support of all honourable senators. 
We have looked forward for some time to the discussion of the report emanating from the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. The report from those who were privileged to serve on the Committee has attracted tremendous interest. As other honourable senators have done, I take this opportunity of paying credit and thanks to the administrative and technical officers who had the long and arduous task of advising and assisting the Committee during its many months of deliberations. The Committee was diversely constituted from most States and from various skills. As this was a problem that had national implications, it was appropriate that most States should be represented. The problems of all the States came into focus and under scrutiny during the progress of the investigation. The problem at the time at which we embarked on this discussion was perhaps in a less intense stage of public interest than it was subsequently or is now. lt is to the credit of the Australian Senate and to the then  Senator Henty  who inspired this investigation that the Senate raised this matter quite early and created the Committee. Subsequent to that there was a tremendous intensification of interest in and knowledge of pollution among the people not only of Australia but all over the world. I think it can be said of the Australian Senate that we were reasonably in the forefront in our approach to an investigation of the problem. Pollution is a mounting problem, a problem which has increased in intensity, in depth and width from day to day as society patterns have changed, as urbanisation has replaced many areas of rural settlement and as society has become more industrialised and technocracy has taken over. Fortunately there is always that hard core of enthusiasts who, in days when their efforts are not appreciated, battle against public appeal and are interested in methods of this kind. In this chamber there is one honourable senator who served on this Committee and whose personal interest in conservation is well known. There are many people of this type throughout Australia. That is why, as we approach the solution to this problem, we are fortified by the thought that there will be a great body of enthusiastic support already available. If the type of enthusiasm which  Senator Mulvihill  has manifested is shared by many in the community, it gives promise that any coordinated efforts in this field will find considerable public support. 
We are inclined always to overlook what we call the socio-economic consequences of pollution. We are inclined to think of pollution perhaps in financial or economic terms or as a disturbance merely of human comfort and interruption to human living. But actually it has grave socio-economic consequences which impede the economic development of a country and impose additional and financial economic burdens. It reduces efficiency, lt adds tremendous costs to public health administration and things of that character. Therefore anything done to overcome the problem or to do something to ameliorate it would be a great contribution to the strength of the economy of any country being affected by its occurrence. 
The approach of the Committee was not merely to the question of the pollution of one of the natural elements, water, but to the genera] question of water, its conservation and its use in a continent which traditionally is one of the driest in the world and where water is extremely precious. Therefore the Committee took a very wide interpretation of its charter, as defined in the Senate resolution creating it, and got down to work on its area of investigation. We faced a matter which had local, State, national and even international consequences. The Committee at all times was conscious of the fact that it was operating within a vast continent, within a federal system, with a variety of climes, with a shortage of water, with a strong concentration of population on the perimeter of the continent and with a multiplying industrialised society. All these things created particular difficulties which if not handled at this stage would finally create a problem which would be totally unsolvable. 
Our approach was traditional for these committees. We assembled the technical evidence and assembled the evidence from government sources. I pay tribute to the Government instrumentalities of the States because I think they responded adequately and in some cases enthusiastically to the request of the Committee that they present evidence. We were rather taken aback by the activity evident in many of the States. It was diverse and unco-ordinated. Sometimes it was a reflection purely of the individual enthusiasm of the officer concerned. Therefore there were uneven registrations of success in this field. That subjective approach cannot ultimately be the proper solution of the problem, but there it was and it obviously provided a challenge to any committee which was trying to find an objective solution which would be applied irrespective of the particular enthusiasm of the people who might be administering it. 
I think other members of the Committee were as staggered as I at the reponse in some quarters when our report was tabled. I was particularly staggered at the response by the Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte, who, if reported correctly, said that he would not even bother to read it. We realised that the conservation of water and the preservation of water quality are both objectives that will take tremendous financial investment to achieve, and much finance will be needed just to prevent the position deteriorating. We are conscious of the limited resources of the States. The Committee at all times was conscious of the constitutional role of the States in regard to this question and that any attempt to solve the problem in the absence of total co-operation and participation by the States could be doomed to failure. 
Conscious of this but equally conscious of the limited financial resources of the States we therefore made specific proposals that finance should be provided by the Commonwealth. If the Report had been read by the Victorian Premier he would have noted this point. As Victoria would have participated in such financial interest and grants by the Commonwealth it staggered us to see that the Report was dismissed by the Victorian Premier unread and unsung. 
Obviously,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  the time has arrived for concerted action. We know that there is tremendous activity throughout all States of the Commonwealth. We know that this is part of the general response throughout the world to the growing acuteness of the problem and that the States of the Commonwealth of Australia are not isolated in their response to this new world demand, this new world interest and this new world concern. Therefore we closely examined what legislative and administrative steps the States were taking in order to handle, within the limits of their constitutional power and financial ability, the problem within the perimeter of the States concerned. This constitutes a great deal of our report. 
We did not then allow the Report and our concern and our interest in what the States were doing to finish at that point of time; we kept reviewing State legislation, the administrative and legislative advances and departures in State legislation, from then until the Report actually went to press, right to the last minute, so that it would be as up to date as we could make it in every element. 
We are gratified that the States have continued their work. We find now, as we receive report after report, that there is increased and continuing activity in the States. We have read in the Press that there is now a uniform pollution law planned for Queensland. We know that New Zealand has had a uniform plan and that the authorities there say that Australia is IS years behind. Legislative implementation of the New South Wales policy is to provide for 2 new pollution agencies. A total anti-pollution body is being set up. Victoria will use similar methods to combat pollution. 
All these things are of tremendous advantage and bear particular relevance to the investigation conducted at the direction of this Senate and to the deliberations of the Committee. We feel that it is only with the participation of the Commonwealth that a total solution to the problem can be found. The Commonwealth has the resources and is administratively situated to co-ordinate the best efforts of the States. In the absence of Commonwealth interest and participation at a level in advance of present activity - and I know that the Commonwealth is participating in this matter on a national scale - all these great efforts on the part of the States may well go without that element of national coordination which ultimately will give the whole approach new vitality and will ensure total success. That is why members of the Committee believe that consideration of this report is a matter of great urgency. 
It is not. my intention tonight to mount a political attack but I was somewhat concerned the other day about a speech delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to a seminar on drugs. He recited before an international gathering activity in Australia on the question of narcotics. He dealt with the activities of Commonwealth departments in co-operation with the States. He dealt with Commonwealth-State ministerial conferences and with the departmental agencies which are co-ordinating their efforts. I was concerned and disappointed because, in the copy of the speech which I have, the Prime Minister did not mention to that gathering that there was a Senate committee investigating drug abuse and drug trafficking at the instance of the Parliament. No doubt the Prime Minister cannot retain everything in his mind or know everything but 1 felt concern that a matter as substantial and significant as that should not be included in a speech to an international gathering dealing with this problem. That is why I felt that this Report on water pollution should not be allowed to become merely another document. There is about water pollution, as there is about narcotics in a different sense, a great sense of urgency. The Committee has endeavoured to inject that sense of urgency into its Report. 
Our Report is constituted not only in words. We endeavoured to make its format part of the Report so that it would speak loudly and clearly. As I said, those who ultimately are to solve the water pollution problems are not going to solve it only under disciplines of law. We have to create a national consciousness of the need to eliminate pollution, to reduce it, to remove it and to prevent it, and this is a tremendous task. Undoubtedly the education of our citizens, particularly the education of our young citizens and children will be one of the great contributing factors. That is why we presented this report in a colourful form with colour plates showing bad instances of pollution, with easy access to the recommendations and with a rather dramatic cover. If this report lies in a school library children will be attracted to it, persuaded to look at it and maybe persuaded to identify themselves with the campaign which attempts have been made to launch. In that way the Committee feels that the report may speak, by its very appearance, of the substance which is contained within its pages. We feel that this report should not be allowed to lie unseen and unsung and not given immediate consideration. I have no doubt that the report has already come under the scrutiny of the Government and is being examined. Perhaps action is being taken upon it. I do not think that absolves this chamber from the responsibility and the duty of expressing in formal terms its sense of urgency. For that reason I propose an amendment to the resolution as moved by  Senator Davidson.  I move: 
After the word 'report' add the following: and refers it to the Government for immediate consideration and urgent action in view of the recommendations of the Committee that there should be a national approach to the matter. 
At the moment the States are active in the field. The Commonwealth is active in the field also. But what is required is a new level of activity in different ways and in suggested different directions. If the States are moving in their independent directions with great activity, great enthusiasm and undoubtedly with great skill, but if at the same time their actions are not parallel with a new level and new direction of Commonwealth activity then unfortunately the motion would not ultimately and quickly achieve that co-ordinating action which constitutes an efficient approach. The Commonwealth can do a number of things immediately. Within Commonwealth territory it can implement the recommendations of the Committee if it decides to accept those recommendations. It can provide within constitutional power many services which will be available to the States not involving the exactions of legal discipline. For example, it can provide educational opportunities, research opportunities, educational grants, and scholarships to create a body of technicians in this field whether at a national university or State universities. Those things may be done within constitutional power to provide services made available to the States. In those other areas where complementary Commonwealth and State action may be required the Committee has visualised that type of approach rather than probing the limits of the constitution to call upon the Commonwealth to exact legal disciplines, perhaps against the will of the States, which may be subject to challenge under constitutional law. 
This whole programme could be doomed to failure if it were to resolve into a constitutional battle between the Commonwealth and the States. That would be unseemly, undesirable and unprofitable. But if a method could be devised by which the enthusiasm of the States could be coordinated with the parallel enthusiasm of the Commonwealth and, within a system, co-operative federalism methods devised, then I think we will really be proceeding as quickly as possible along the road to a national programme in this field. If it were a question of explaining in great detail to the Senate the contents of this report because it was abstruse, highly technical and in the absence of many hours of study would defy understanding or comprehension, then I would feel disposed to speak at some considerable length. But that is not the nature of this report. While there are some technical sections in it, it is couched in simple language. This document is clearly set out in order that, as we say, he who runs may read. The document speaks for itself and its contents may be quickly appreciated and assimilated and, we hope, quickly implemented. For that reason I do not propose to speak unduly long to the report. We want to inject into this matter a sense of urgency at the instance of the Parliament. The fact that the Senate sets up a standing committee on any matter in itself betokens the sense of importance and urgency which the Chamber gives to that matter. 
I am sorry, I mean a select committee. I am indebted to the honourable senator. We do not embark upon this merely as a matter of statistical collection or to produce a document which can be used for academic reference at some future time. All these committees are set up to establish ultimately a programme of action by an assimilation of the facts, a discovery of the situation and by suggesting methods of approach and action. This Committee had the same objective and this report has the same purpose. Embodied within the report are recommendations for action and a programme of activity which can go a long way to establishing the type of national approach to this question which I think the States, the Commonwealth and all the people require. Perhaps the amendment I have proposed could be more specific. If possible I would like to obtain unanimity of the senate on this matter. 
The one thing I want to convey by this amendment is a sense of urgency. The report speaks for itself as to the manner in which urgent action should be taken and the lines along which it should be taken. I do not think it is necessary to spell that out- Some argument attaches to this. But because this amendment meets approval in certain quarters I would prefer to have it adopted rather than attempt to have it more specific and see it defeated or fragmented. I know a suggested further amendment may be considered at a future time in conjunction with the amendment 1 have proposed. I commend to the Senate that this report should go out from the Senate with a note of urgency attached to it that we expect something to be done, that the nation expects something to be done and the work of this Committee will not go for nothing. Then, very soon we will be able to go before the world demonstrating that this nation is conscious of its responsibilities to its people, to nature, to the world which, with us, is the joint heir of the beauty which nature has provided whether in this part of the world for our particular enjoyment or as a resort for others who come from other parts of the world. 
No. It is a matter of beauty, truth and use. 
Exactly. There are a lot of other aspects which we can share with the world if we ourselves will share them and maintain them. 1 not only commend the report to honourable senators but 1 also commend the amendment which I have moved. 
The Acting  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
We are coming to the closing stages of this debate on the second reading of the Social Services Bill which deals with the provision of increased pension payments. This matter has been canvassed at considerable length by speakers from all sides of the House. In essence the Bill proposes an increase in the base rate of pension by 50c a week. On this side of the chamber a concensus is expressed, in an amendment moved by the Opposition and by the speeches of the representatives of the Australian Democratic Labor Party who have spoken to the Bill and the amendment, that that increase in insufficient. Its insufficiency was cited in the amendment proposed to the Budget by  Senator McManus  on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party. The increase even substantially fails to keep pace with the increased cost of living since the last rise in pensions was granted. lt is very serious when any section of the community, particularly the most defenceless section, is continuously permitted to fall into a position of indigence and of social dependence on the goodwill and solicitude of those who might have the ability to make some sort of financial handout. 
In a free society, while the economic freedom of the individual is important, the social freedom and the personal dignity of the citizen is equally important. In this case not only has the economic freedom and viability of a group of aged people in the community been gravely impaired but the personal dignity of these people is being brought under grave criticism. We must recognise that these good people are those who. by the contribution of their long lives and individual participation in the economic life of the community, have contributed to the building up of the modern Australian economy with its wealth,  its affluence and the availability of all those things which go with the affluent society such as full employment, adequate hours of leisure, social conveniences, recreation, reduced working hours and things of that character. Let us not think that these good people who today may be dependants of society have not been in their time great contributors to building up the economic strength which is now represented in the society on whose charity and goodwill they depend, lt is a matter for the greatest regret that periodically the lives of these people, their entitlements and dignity have to come under some sort of anatomical scrutiny by this Parliament. 
For years the Australian Democratic Labor Party has pleaded with the Parliament and the nation to try to avoid this position in the future. By continuously mentioning it in our policy speech at general elections, by proposing it in specific resolutions, by incorporating it in amendments which have been moved to the Budgets from year to year and in amendments' to Bills such as this we have attempted - using the political term - to take pensions out of politics. To my mind if ever our proposition has proved more worthy, more justifiable and more indefensible it has been during the course of this debate. During my years in the Parliament I have seldom heard the conditions of the pensioners so raked over, if I might use that rather common cliche, so examined and so scrutinised to decide whether their small income was adequate or inadequate. The fringe benefits and bare subsistence which is virtually all they have to look forward to have seldom been put under the parliamentary microscope and examined as closely as they have been on this occasion. Surely that is something which human dignity should deny to this Parliament. Our regard for people should be such that their individual way of life and their individual entitlement to an adequate and fair way of life should be so compelling that this Parliament should not be put in the position where periodically pensions come up for a political economic examination as is inevitably the case while pensions remain within the disposition of the Parliament. 
Of course, there are two schools of thought on this matter. The point of view of the Democratic Labor Party remains strong and persistent. Our attitude does not deviate. The Government which has the responsibility to gather revenue and disperse it say that to enable a matter of such substance, of such gigantic financial proportions to go outside the disposition of Parliament where emotive elements might persuade the granting of pension rates which would be beyond the financial capacity of the Government within one Budget, would be unthinkable in the proper administration by a national government. However one might disagree with that point of view, at least one can see a prudence and validity  id  presenting it for consideration. But that is a point of view which I and members of my Party are unable to accept. We live in a society in which a number of components go towards the control and discipline of the economic condition of the whole of Australia. On other occasions I have mentioned that a number of economic components determine the financial and economic level of activity in Australia today. There are such things as the Reserve Bank of Australia, CommonwealthState financial agreements, the Tariff Board and things of that nature. But there is one other component and that is the operation of the arbitral functions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. One of the big components in determining or in interrupting the economic stability of the nation is undoubtedly the determination handed down in the national wage case by the arbitral commission which has consequences and effects throughout the whole economic life of Australia. 
Many equations are used. New elements are always being introduced into the formula to be applied. There are equations such as the economic consequences to the nation, productivity, a needs component, and things of that nature. The particular elements in the formula vary from year to year. As time goes on more and more emphasis has been placed on one component to the exclusion or downgrading of another. In present cases before the Arbitration Commission profitability is a factor which is now being introduced and presented in one submission to the court as a component to be taken into account  in determining a wage and salary level. The significance of this is that there we have a totally independent body. In spite of the strictures passed upon its independence by members of the Australian Labor Party I regard that body of judicial and quasi-judicial persons - that is, of nonprofessional members, sitting, however, judicially - as totally impartial, totally neutral, and totally independent. Like any arbitral body the Commission is entitled to have presented to it all points of view which should be taken into account in arriving at a determination. 
Just as the employees are entitled to present their point of view, similarly the employers are not only entitled but also are required to present their point of view. Surely the Commonwealth Government as one of the major employers is entitled to present its point of view. If a factor to be taken into account by such an arbitral body in the general concept of its determination is the economic consequences of a major decision, then a major employer such as the Commonwealth Government which also has the overall control of the discipline of the economy, can legitimately present to that body the economic consequences of a determination as the Commonwealth would visualise it. I cannot see that that is in any sense an attempt to importune the tribunal but is merely acquainting a tribunal of fact with a body of facts which are necessary for an ultimate determination. 
Therefore I say that there is operating in the community an arbitral system the decisions of which are of tremendous consequence and which affect the whole economic life of the nation. In no sense would a government dare to say that such a body should be subject, because of the economic consequences, to political discipline through the Parliament. In no sense would that be accepted in the modern Australian community. We accept the consequences of that arbitration system as something which must be taken aboard. If any adjustments are necessary at the hands of a government as a result of any such determination, whether by increased taxes or reduced expenditure in other fields, it is the responsibility of a government to adjust itself to the consequences. 1 cannot see that the proposal of the Democratic Labor Party is any different in its projection, of an independent tribunal to determine pensions. As the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is independent and makes economic determinations which impose strains upon the national Budget and which have economic consequences to the nation, and are accepted by the Government despite all those consequences - and any government must accept them - I cannot see that an independent tribunal to determine the level of pensions should be put in any different category. The fact that the consequences would be great - perhaps not as great as they are in a major national arbitration or the national wage case - is no justification for the Government to decline to accept this alternative method as a means by which the social service entitlement of pensioners should be settled and accepted. 
In the absence of something of that character, increasingly every year this Parliament is to be asked to examine in this rather horrifying detail the lives and dispositions of this great section of the community which is dependent on the solicitude of a government of any political persuasion from year to year and from time to time. This is more reprehensible when there are elections in the offing, when the political consequences of a decision may have very great political repercussions. Then undoubtedly it is only within the concept of human affairs that governments will respond to the political stresses and strains of the time and make a response which may or may not be adequate but which, certainly in a particular year, may bring electoral advantage or at least avoid electoral disadvantage. 
It must be grossly unpalatable to the Ministers concerned that their approach to social welfare should have to be determined in such a light. After all, as this is the method of determining social services, it could well be that the political consideration persuading Ministers to grant an increase in pension might well bring them into conflict with the economic advice received from the Treasury. The Treasury may think at any time that such action would be undesirable on economic grounds. It has been suggested that there was a conflict during pre-budget discussions relating to the 1970-71 Budget; that there was a conflict between the Prime Minister's Department and the Treasury as to the type of economic disciplines or type of economic and financial amelioration that should be included in the Budget. 
In the field of pensions, if that same conflict arose we would find that pensions may be the subject of the Treasury technocrats who would put economic stability over the whole community before a reasonable entitlement, in humanity, to the pensioners. On the other hand, we might find an ambitous political opportunist party making tremendous promises to the pensioners in complete contradiction of any valid economic principle merely to obtain political advancement and, perhaps, political office. In the modern community those conflicts are inescapable. But if we once write into the functioning of our system the establishment of a permanent independent tribunal, staffed by technicians and with experts at the highest level, then from year to year, as governments have to adjust themselves to a national wage determination, governments could expect that there would be determinations which their own experts might well anticipate. Undoubtedly formulas to be applied as to the means of the pensioners and a fairly just entitlement in the economic circumstances would be equally assessed - almost assessed exactly - by the advisers to the arbitral and independent body as well as to the government. The government could then budget in terms of almost an anticipated and declared variation in the social service entitlement. [n the absence of such an independent body all sorts of statements are made. I regret that one particular statement was made in this debate and I am glad that the honourable senator who made it is in the chamber. As I said earlier, we find that the lives of pensioners are examined in a microscopic manner. Things are said about pensioners which, in their individual dignity, they should resent. During the debate last night  Senator Keeffe  made a statement which was the subject of subsequent comment by  Senator Gair.  It is not my intention to canvass that statement. It was a reference to what might be the economic plight of certain recipients of social services and the position they might be forced into. This statement shows how, once the situation is allowed to develop whereby we have to examine the entitlements and the alternatives open to pensioners, in the absence of an independent approach to the matter, we can offend the human dignity of the people with whose welfare we are dealing. I trust  Senator Keeffe  may at some time feel disposed to speak to his statement because on an interpretation which is available it could- 
 I read  Senator Keeffe's  statement and I gave him the benefit of this interpretation: that he said there would be widows who, because of their economic consequences, would be forced into the situation where they may have to resort to immoral practices in order to sustain the children who are their responsibility.  His  statement was subject to an interpretation that that is the situation into which they could be forced in the absence of adequate provision. But the honourable senator now indicates, apparently, that he does know cases where this is actually occurring and that given proper opportunity he would be prepared to substantiate his statement. If I understand him correctly he would be prepared to bring the evidence forward provided there was proper protection for those people. 
 This is a very serious matter and one which naturally reflects very gravely upon the whole body of women who are in receipt of that type of pension. The honourable senator said that there may be a minority of people who would do this. 
 I do not know whether the word 'desperate' was used. Certainly the word 'minority' was used.  Senator Keeffe  did not impugn everybody in that category, as he could not. and I think he should not have impugned any of them. Unfortunately the position now is that every woman in that category, every woman who is in receipt of a widow's pension, conies under the possible reflection implicit in the statement which has been made. Nobody could now say which woman is to be included and which woman is to be excluded. This is a very tragic situation. I do not know whether it will be clarified. However, the statement has been made. I have heard from another source - not directly - that there has been a great deal of resentment at the implications of that statement. In the light of the type of examination which takes place and which evokes that type of comment - candidly, I think it should not have been made but it was made- 
I am hot afraid of the truth. I do not think anybody should be afraid of the truth. However there is a great body of women who now feel that they are under the shadow of that suggestion. 
Once you say that there are some women, who is to say which woman is included and which is excluded? 
We are not sweeping anything under the carpet. You have made a very serious charge and every woman is entitled to ask: 'To whom is the reference made? Is it to me?' Until names are mentioned every woman must remain subject to any reflection that is implicit in that statement. For the reasons that I have stated we propose, as a very substantial amendment to the amendment moved by the official Opposition, that there should be an independent tribunal. I do not think this Parliament should look forward with any expectation to this harrowing experience from year to year of examining the lives, the dignity and the degradation of the personality of the people who are in a particular sense our responsibility. It cannot be avoided if this process is to continue. It can be avoided only if we lift this matter completely out of our hands, apart from the fact of appropriating ultimately the moneys which an independent tribunal would recommend for provision. The provision of any social service benefit today is as much a matter of economic determination as of arbitral decision, and an independent body adequately equipped with those with trained judicial minds and those with economic experience and expertise, and being of course a body which would have regard for the financial capacity of the nation and the consequences of a determination on the national financial structure, ultimately must earn the respect of the community and of the recipients of social welfare. 
We are accused of being naive. Are we being naive in the circumstances and the atmosphere of this debate? I think we are being very realistic, and the unfortunate references which have been made indicate that we are being anything but naive. I suppose it is very difficult to take out of the hands of any government a weapon which can be used so effectively for political purposes. That is one of the great obstacles which would stand in the way of the adoption of our proposal. Any government vested with this power has a tremendous political advantage, and governments are most reluctant to surrender such an advantage but there is no reason why the recipients of social service benefits should be required to surrender their rights so that a government can maintain its position of advantage. 
For those reasons, as has been indicated by my leader,  Senator Gair,  we support the proposals in the amendment to the Bill as advanced by the official Opposition but we add to it, and trust that the Opposition will support our further amendment which seeks the establishment of an independent tribunal of experts. We perhaps are the first in Australia to propose this kind of tribunal. Its need has become increasingly evident over the years. We have consistently proposed it and it has been consistently rejected. We will continue to propose it. We feel that in an increasing degree we will command the support of those in whose interests the constitution of such a tribunal is contemplated. We commend the amendment of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to the earnest consideration and, I trust, the support of the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the increasing complexity in the operation of the public account and in view of the more intense scrutiny of financial papers and departmental accounts which will result from the operations of the Senate estimates committees, will the Treasurer consider the compilation of a handbook for the information and guidance of senators and members on the nature of the public account, the operation of the various funds and the mode of presentation of (he figures in the financial papers? 
I second the amendment. As  Senator Gair,  the Leader of my Party, has said, he spoke to this matter before the suspension of the sitting for dinner. The amendment which was moved by the official Opposition had 2 components. One dealt with the present situation implicit in the levying of the new charges, and the other component - that which is now the subject of the amendment moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party - dealt rather with something that goes to the causes of it of which the increased imposts are a consequence. It is to that aspect to which I wish to direct my attention. 
The Minister's second reading speech goes to the question of the concept in which the Post Office is to be regarded. Is the Post Office a service department purely and simply, or is it a means of raising revenue from time to time to assist Consolidated Revenue as well as giving a service? The Minister indicated that without these imposts there would be a deficit in the accounts of the Post Office. That is fair enough. However, the contemplated imposts seek to secure revenue far in  excess of an amount which would be necessary to meet any possible loss. Therefore to that extent the Post Office is considered and conceived as a means of raising additional revenue. That may contradict what I consider should be the true concept of the Post Office as essentially a service department consistent, of course, with economic running and the provision of services adequately at an economic cost to the supplier and to the consumer. That is why we feel that this will be a recurring position. If there is a base cause for the Post Office incurring losses and those losses are to be recouped every year from Consolidated Revenue by the levying of increased imposts, then we will deal with the consequences and never with the cause. 
The amendment moved by  Senator Gair  on this occasion to the effect that the Post Office should be a public corporation - it is in terms of the principle that we have enunciated constantly over the years - goes to the root of the matter and to the ques: tion of resolving the base fundamental difficulty which will involve the elimination of the consequences from year to year. This is not a new concept. It has received approbation over the years. More importantly, however, it received the consideration of a committee of this Parliament many years ago. I had occasion - arising from a long memory because I served on that Committee - to refer to the Twelfth Report of the Public Accounts Committee and to examine what was said and the recommendations that were made. Therefore I propose to refer briefly to some of the propositions embodied in that report. 
Perhaps it would be very interesting if initially I were to refer to the personnel of the Public Accounts Committee which considered this matter. Some of them, very distinguished members of this Parliament, have now left the Parliament. Some, unfortunately, have passed away. The  Chairman  of that Committee was Professor Bland, a most distinguished technician in the field of public administration to whom the nation and the Parliament are indebted for his professional advice over many years and his academic knowledge which were put at the disposal of the Parliament. The late  Senator Sir Shane  Paltridge was a member of the Committee as was  Mr Crean,  who is still a member of the House of Representatives. I, too, was a member of the Committee. One of the most distinguished members was the present Postmaster-General,  Mr Hulme.  Therefore, the observations of the Committee are somewhat relevant to the discussion in which the Senate is now engaged. 
It sat in 1954. The Committee gave attention to the then format of the accounts of the Postmaster-General's Department. One of the big considerations was whether those accounts should be presented on a commercial basis. Certain recommendations, to which I shall refer very briefly, were made and possibly as a consequence there was a variation and restructuring of the method of controlling the accounts of the Postmaster-General's Department. To that extent I would say that the report of the Committee has received recognition and has been translated into an act of administration in this major undertaking. Nevertheless, there are some observations to be made so, knowing that this Bill has further processes to pursue and that tonight is a critical night for its passage, I prefer to select 3 or 4 extracts from the report rather than to read extensive excerpts from it. These are some of the observations made and the recitations embodied in the report: 
The Director-General told the Committee that in his opinion the Post Office should be regarded as a Commonwealth instrumentality providing communication services. The Department worked within the departmental system and at the same time adopted the most appropriate commercial practices, the results of which it expressed in accounts on a double entry basis. These accounts afforded an opportunity to check the costs of the services with the charges made for them. This was done every year, and oftener, if necessary, and on the basis of the results disclosed and forecasts made, the charges for its services were reviewed. Irrespective of the results revealed by the commercial accounts, however, the charges for services were determined by the ministerial head in accordance with Government policy and parliamentary approval was obtained by legislation. Nevertheless, the Director-General agreed that endeavours should be made to avoid any substantial deficit. 
Then follows this extract from the DirectorGeneral's evidence: 
Unless there are clear explanations, I think it is bad for organisations such as ours to be operating regularly with deficits. That has a bad effect on staff morale and almost everything else. 
In another portion of its report the Public Accounts Committee had this to say: 
Like most public utilities, the Post Office supplies services for which it charges. If its departmental 'status' should result in customers being charged too much, or too little, there may be cause for complaint. In that event public and parliamentary pressure may be exerted to alter Government policy. Without going so far as to say that the Post Office should pay its way, the Committee considers that the fullest attention should be paid to the relationship between the income and the expenditure of the Post Office in fixing charges. 
In fairness to the Government, may it be said that the Bill now before the Senate does reflect that point of view, namely, that the Postmaster-General's Department was faced with a loss and then attempts were made by this means to equate the loss with increased revenue and to avoid the recurring position to which the DirectorGeneral referred with some grave regret. Coming more particularly to the summary of conclusions, the following was recited at paragraph 474: 
The Committee has examined a large number of statements covering the activities of the Postmaster-General's Department and has discussed them with departmental and other witnesses at length. Throughout the Report it will have been observed that the Committee has insisted that the business management of the Post Office should not be subordinated to its status as a Government department. The Committee realises, however, that whether it is looked at as a Government department or as a business undertaking, the services offered to the public, and the rates or charges that will be fixed for those services, will be decided by the Cabinet on the recommendation of the Minister, i.e., the Postmaster-General. If its appraisal as a Government department predominates, there is no effective yardstick to measure costs and, therefore, to fix the rates that should be charged. 
That was the comment of the Committee on that point at that stage. At paragraph 478 the Committee stated: 
The Committee feels that the departmental organisation has been primarily concerned with the technical efficiency of its services, and that the business management of the undertaking, including a full appreciation of accounts and costs of the organisation, has been relegated to a less important position. 
Paragraph 479 is in these terms: 
Had the Department carried through the Post Office organisation the conception that the charges for the several services are influenced by the results of the financial operations as disclosed by the commercial accounts, the Committee believes that the Post Office would have concentrated less upon the departmental votes than it appears to have done. It would also have used the commercial accounts as an aid to efficient management as between the branches as well as for the Department as a whole. Had the comparative costs of the branches been subjected to closer scrutiny, the Committee believes that costs might have been substantially reduced. 
The report goes on to give the conclusions of the Committee which are as follows: 
Functions 
The statement of functions of the Postmaster-General's Department should be reviewed. 
Status 
Although organised on traditional departmental lines, the Postmaster-General's Department should also be regarded as a business undertaking. 
Importance of the Commercial Accounts 
The Postmaster-General's Department's commercial accounts are important in the consideration of Commonwealth finance and should record all the revenue and all the expenditure accruing for the year. 
I am sure these things are now occurring. 
 I am, yes, unfortunately. That is the precise point. The report continues: 
Forms of the Commercial Accounts 
The form of the Postmaster-General's Department's commercial accounts could be improved. 
In other words the report contemplates that there has been an excessive accent on the functioning of the Postmaster-General's Department as a Commonwealth Department. Insofar as this aspect receives an exaggerated emphasis, to that extent the competence of the Department to present efficient management and to provide efficient services at the lowest possible economic cost is likely to be impaired. That was the feeling of the Committee at that stage. Honourable senators will notice that the Committee  does not  recommend  an  independent public corporation. After all, we realise that what is suggested is one of the kinds of semi-governmental organisations which have developed and proliferated much more in the intervening  years.  At one stage the Committee did refer to a series of similar corporations in Australia and elsewhere. The report in paragraph 35 states: 
In most countries the postal services are conducted by the governments concerned as ordinary departments. And this is the case even  when public enterprises on a comparable scale are not conducted as government departments but as statutory corporations. The Commonwealth has adopted a similar policy in retaining complete ministerial control of the Post Office when it has substantially abandoned it in cases such as the Commonwealth Trading and Savings Banks, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority, the Commonwealth Railways, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, and the Australian Broadcasting Commission. To a varying extent, these touch on the everyday affairs of the Australian public and expend very large amounts of public funds, features which in the case of the Post Office are mentioned as justifying ministerial and parliamentary control. The Committee recalls that the British Post Office has been a government department since it was established in the seventeenth century. This shows that people want it kept as a government department. 
Iri other words quite a substantial record is now building up of the function of the independent Government corporation in circumstances and with responsibilities that are not alien to those of the Post Office. If the status of the Post Office as a public corporation is not totally and immediately obviously justifiable I think there is a warrant for investigation as to whether that should or should not be the case. The amendment moved by  Senator Gair  takes the matter no further than that. It does not come down, in the absence of the great body of knowledge which would be necessary to do so, with a dogmatic decision. It merely states that there should be a committee to investigate the desirability and practicability of this. 
I have said that at that stage concern was expressed by the Committee. It was not a very grave concern but concern was expressed as to what should be the mode of fuctioning of the Postmaster-General's Department. At that stage suggestions were made which have been embodied in subsequent administrative practice. I think that fact must be considered. A further step which was also canvassed by this Committee was the question of a completely new status independent of the ordinary Public Service administration, similar to other public corporations, and whether that could more effectively and efficiently give the service which it was generally conceded is the prime purpose of the department consonant with economic operation and the provision of those services at the lowest practical economic cost to the consumer. A position has developed in which there are recurring losses in the Postmaster-General's Department and constant additional imposts on consolidated revenue by additional charges to recoup the losses. The losses are recouped beyond the base amount until this practice becomes a mode of producing general revenue. In the light of all those circumstances and the passage of time it seems not inappropriate that a committee should look at this to see whether a better, more modern, more effective and economic base should not be discovered for this great public undertaking. The Democratic Labor Party recognises the fact of the economic situation and the effect the accounts will have on the condition of the Post Office and that the anticipated revenue will go into the Budget. But there will be a tremendous dislocation of the Budget and there may have to be a reduction of benefits or taxation alleviation such as has been provided in the Budget if this Bill were defeated and the imposts were not permitted. Nevertheless there is a responsibility on the Senate to look at the fundamental cause of this recurring malaise. If a committee is the appropriate body to undertake this investigation then the Australian Democratic Labor Party certainly thinks the time is opportune to do it. 
Whether or not the wording of the amendment is explicit in that regard, obviously the committee would be directed to the setting up or otherwise of a public corporation as a means of avoiding considerations which I have just placed before the Senate. It may be a truncation of the concept, but obviously all those things are implicit in the suggestion, if not expressly spelt out. For those reasons I second the amendment as proposed by  Senator Gair  for the Democratic Labor Party. I suggest to the Senate that after this long period of time, and in view of this difficulty confronting the Post Office and annually confronting the Parliament, this amendment might well find the total support of the Senate. 
The Bill before the Senate seeks to give effect to one of the proposals outlined by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his Budget Speech. It is a Bill of a character - there have been a number of them since the bringing down of the Budget - which does not purport to raise revenue as such to go into Consolidated Revenue: it is designed to recoup charges which are being imposed due to the operations of authorities such as the Department of Civil Aviation which, in the concept of finance by the Government, warrant recoupment from the airline operators in order to equate expenditure and revenue. This principle is an accepted one providing one accepts what is behind it. If the airline operators are to be regarded as authorities which provide a service they should bear the charges which are imposed on them. In this way I suppose the Government's approach is quite justifiable and I have no quarrel with it. For that reason the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports on this occasion the Bill which is before the chamber. However, it proposes to move an amendment to the Bill in relation to a particular aspect of it during the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 
As I said earlier, what we have to examine is the principle which is being applied by the Government in its assessment of the role which is played by the aircraft operating industry in Australia. In a most informative speech  Senator Webster  pointed out that the airlines have a role in the Australian way of life which is quite separate from merely the providing of transport by air over our vast continent. 
This being a vast and sparsely populated continent the necessity for air lift is vital not only to the convenience but to the development in depth of the continent and to the dispersal of the population. The airlines are playing a complementary role in national development and in the dispersement of Australia's people from the hinterland right through the continent. It does appear that there is a basic fallacy in trying to estimate the role of the airlines purely as transport authorities, discharging that function for commercial purposes. That the Government has regarded them in this way is implicit from the history of the repeated presentation of Bills of this nature over the years. The charges are repeatedly recouped by the presentation of annual bills such as this one with increased imposts of 10 per cent equated with the increased cost of landing charges and things of that nature. 
When we see the history of the periodic presentation of bills of this character it is inevitable that the conclusion is drawn that the Government is relying in its approach to the operation of the airlines on the principle I have mentioned. It is suggested - and I think it is a concern shared by people in this Senate from all parties - that that is not the correct principle. If that principle is persisted in a totally unfair burden will be imposed on the airline operators and on those who, by choice or necessity, have occasion to use the airline services. An alternative principle has been canvassed on a number of occasions in this Senate and no doubt in the whole Parliament. The Government has been persuaded to have this matter looked at to see to what extent an analysis of cost should fairly be borne exclusively by the airline operators - and therefore by the' paying public - and to what extent a lot of those costs should be computed as being costs incidental to and necessarily arising from its contribution to national development so that the airline operators and the public should, pro tanto, be relieved of that element of cost. 
A little over 12 months ago when a similar Bill to this was before the Senate the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party was that in view of the fact that a Government interdepartmental committee was investigating this question of the fair distribution of costs between the operators and the Government itself and in view of that inquiry proceeding along the lines indicated by  Senator Webster  the Bill was in the nature of a holding measure merely to equate costs to charges at that stage. As the report could be expected to be presented in the intervening 12 months no further charges after that would probably arise. That report has not been presented. I think we are entitled to express our very grave disappointment at the long delay in the presentation of the report by the committee which , was established. If this delay goes on any longer than next year we will have a further request by the Government, for a similar increase or a parallel increase in .charges. 
When.  Senator Cotton  rises to' speak he will close the debate. Therefore, he has suggested that I mention that he has assured me that the committee has completed a considerable amount of its investigations. Part of its report is to hand but the third or fourth head of reference has not been fully canvassed, nor has a conclusion been reached. But the Minister is confident that the committee will be in a position to bring in its conclusions within the next few months. Certainly whatever recommendations the commitee may present, if they are accepted by the Government and if they are along a certain line they will be implemented before the next Budget and will preclude the representation of a Bill of this character. In those circumstances the Democratic Labor Party on this occasion is prepared to support this Bill. We feel that the airlines are making a great contribution to Australian development and to the convenience of the Australian public. In a State such as Queensland which has a vast network of airlines to substantial cities and towns in remote parts of that vast State the air service is the only mode by which with any convenience of speed there can be passage from one place to another. The same remarks apply to Western Australia. 
We realise that the airlines must operate on a commercial basis. Until some other formula is discovered they are acting, to some extent, in the role of the railways. For years in many places the railways have been allowed to run at a loss. On a question of. cash-in cash-out - that is on a cash budget basis - the picture would be very gloomy. . The argument has always . been presented that in what one might call a national economic budget' the railways contribution brings them out on the credit side. In similar circumstances the airlines would be in the same position. But while they operate on a commercial basis they have, therefore, on a cash-in cash-out basis to attempt to secure profits and it is only reasonable that a recoupment should take place. It is regrettable that the increasing cost from year to year has been so regular, persistent and recurrent that there have been 8 or 9 Bills of this nature each year increasing the charges by 10 per cent or thereabouts. It is bad because it reflects a deteriorating economic situation generally. 
But in the circumstances with which we are faced with the airlines, the imposition of these further charges is inevitable. 
We must recognise that the airlines of Australia are making a magnificent contribution not only to Australia but also to world aeronautics. They have a magnificent safety record. They have a record of service. They have a record of efficiency and a record of courtesy. At times we have occasion to be impatient with breakdowns in service and schedules. In an operation such as this it is inevitable. Because of the peculiar economic method of the operation of the airlines where the capitalisation is so heavy in aircraft the companies cannot afford to have aircraft standing on the ground because a few minutes lost here or there is going to have very severe consequences in the holdup of traffic. But this is one of those things which is unavoidable. Nevertheless with all the criticism which we often have occasion to direct ourselves 1 feel we are proud of our internal airlines. We recognise that they operate under certain disabilities, particularly the air landing charges which are high. They are probably the highest in the world for domestic airlines. 1 come now to the second disability under which they suffer and that is that compared with the international airline operators they are required to pay a heavier charge than the international airlines. It is difficult to discover just why this is so. Perhaps it is because we have attempted to secure increased, improved and more frequent international services as a matter of international prestige and communication. We have to realise that if the international airlines are relieved of charges as compared with the domestic airlines, then to that extent it will be necessary to increase the impost on the domestic airlines. Whether that is equitable or not is the very big question for determination. I understand that is one matter which is before the interdepartmental committee to which I have referred and that it will be one of the subjects of its examination and ultimately of its conclusion, determination and recommendation. However, we feel that because this does impose a severe disability on the domestic airlines compared with the international operators. at this stage the Senate might attempt formally to put on record its concern at this discrimination. 
I understand that if the international airlines were required to pay according to the proposed domestic rate it would involve an extra amount which, according to the method of computation, could be between $20,000 and $750,000. If the higher figure is accepted for the sake of this argument then we must recognise that relieving international operators of paying that amount imposes a corresponding additional burden on the domestic operators and on the domestic patrons, on the Australians who use air services throughout the length and breadth of this country. 
I do not think that that is a good principle. After all, I suppose that in the ordinary daily life of Australians it is the domestic airlines which have greater demands on their services and if any section of civil aviation is to be relieved of any impost or any increases then it should be the domestic airlines. Therefore the Democratic Labor Party proposes an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill which 1 shall now read to the Senate. I move: 
After the words 'That the Bill be now read a second time' the following words be added: ', but the Senate is of the opinion that the charges imposed on domestic and international airlines for the use of Commonwealth aerodromes and facilities should be at an identical rate for all aircraft of the same type'. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
We know that the charges are individual landing charges. After all, if an international airline puts its aircraft down in Australia 10 times a month theo it pays the landing change on only 10 occasions. Against that the domestic airlines will pay the charge on, perhaps 300 occasions if they land aircraft 300 times a month. It might be said that the domestic airlines use the airports more frequently but that is not the point. The point is that the charges should be the same for both domestic and international airlines because the demands on airport facilities, such as the accommodation provided for passengers, the condition of the apron, the condition of the runways, the control procedures and the navigation facilities, are the same for every flight. Therefore we suggest that there should be total parity in relation to the charges imposed on international and domestic airlines.' 
In addition we point out that the domestic airlines are required to pay a very heavy fuel tax of which the international airlines are relieved. I am not attacking the international airlines. Our own international airline is one of which we are extremely proud. It is a matter of great national pride that our airline is well considered and has such a magnificent record. We would not want to do anything which might impede its further progress or which might in any way trespass upon the stature it now enjoys. Nevertheless we must recognise as a fact of life that the other airlines owned by other countries which operate to Australia, or which seek feverishly at times to do so and to have the opportunity of landing in this country, should not, as a matter of ordinary financial equity, be relieved of paying the landing charges which are imposed on domestic operators. 
For the reasons 1 have given we of the Democratic Labor Party support the Bill. We hope that this may well be the last of this type of Bill that we will see in the Senate. We hope that within the next 12 months the report of the interdepartmental committee will be presented. We hope that it will express the principles put forward by honourable senators on all sides of this chamber and that a formula may be discovered and recommended - we trust adopted - which will result in a fair distribution between the charges legitimately imposed on national and international concerns and those costs which legitimately can be charged to national interest and national concerns. If that distribution is fairly made then we could expect that there will be no deterioration in our air services. On the contrary, legitimately and justifiably relieved of some of these burdens, we would hope that the domestic airline operators can further improve their services because their commercial financial margin at the moment is very limited and their area of manoeuvrability is very small: Therefore we hope that this will be the last Bill of its kind that we will see in this chamber. 1 assure the Minister for Civil Aviation that this chamber will be alert during the next 12 months to ask whether further progress has been made in the deliberations of that inter-departmental committee and when its recommendations are likely to come forward. In the meantime we feel that the Senate at least should convey to it our concern to see that the domestic and international operators pay the same charges. I seek support for our amendment from honourable senators although in general terms we support the Bill. 
We would welcome that approach by  Senator Murphy.  This is not a matter to be unduly deferred. Consonant with the difficulty in which  Senator Murphy  finds himself, if he can obtain his guidance and conduct discussions as early as possible we would certainly welcome that approach as would, I should think, the Minister. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 12.53 to 8 p.m. 
I think the proposition advanced by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  has a lot to commend it. It is a holding proposition and will depend upon the progress we make. Our progress will depend on the business discussed tonight. This may involve consultation. Actually we should discuss general business. However, whether we discuss general business is a matter which is in the hands of those who would wish to proceed with those matters. They might be prepared to vacate their position in order to enable Bills to proceed. In those circumstances it looks as if the matter can best be decided according to the progress made, and the motion moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson seems to be appropriate to accommodate that situation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Democratic Labor Party proposes an amendment to clause 4. Copies of the amendment have been circulated. I move: 
In clause 4, sub-clause (2.), column 2 of the proposed new table, leave out the figures 8.03, 12.50, 16.08, 18.75, 20.57', insert in lieu thereof the figures '8.83, 13.75, 17.69, 20.62, 22.63'. 
The 2 tables in the Bill, both of which relate to the proposed new increases, refer one to the domestic airlines and one to the international airlines. The tables set out the appropriate charges for each. There is an increase, in terms of the Bill, in both, but there is a margin of existing difference between the rates charged to domestic airlines and those charged to international airlines using our airport facilities. During the debate on the second reading of the Bill the Democratic Labor Party suggested, and in the amendment we propose, that there should be parity in these 2 charges - the domestic and international charges. That parity could be accommodated in 2 ways: Either by bringing the domestic charges down to the international level or by raising the international charges to the domestic level. 
It is worthwhile contemplating the consequence, in the present context, of either of those processes. If we were to do the latter - that is, if we were to reduce the domestic charges to the international charge level - that may be the most satisfactory process. But we have to recognise that this Bill is associated with the annual Budget. The Budget proposed certain financial propositions, culminating in a certain financial situation after expenditure and receipts had been determined. It has been found necessary, at the instance of this Parliament, to introduce propositions which have affected balanced financial position of the Budget and which have received the approval of the Government. Steps are being taken in relation to the receipts tax. There was also some interference with the Budget in relation to the health scheme when additional charges were imposed by amendments moved in this place and carried. There are other propositions in the Budget that might well have attracted a similar interference with the structure. More particularly might that have been so in the case of the distribution of 50c a week extra to pensioners. Nevertheless, it was not thought proper in this Parliament, and no substantial formal amendment was carried, to increase the payments to pensioners. 
However, the Budget has been interfered with. We consider it unwise to attempt further to prune the revenue which has already been rather severely truncated by the deliberations and the decisions of the Parliament. Therefore, consistent with that belief, we chose the first proposition 1 have mentioned to preserve equality, as far as possible, between the domestic and the international airlines. As we think it would be imprudent to reduce further the Budget revenue by reducing the charges to domestic airlines to the international level and in order to preserve such equity as we can command, it has been considered that, the best thing to do would be to suggest, in equity and in fairness, an increase in the rale charged to international operators to bring them up to parity wilh the domestic operators. 
All those matters have been contemplated against the background of the investigation of the interdepartmental committee which is studying the whole structure of air navigation charges - at what charges should be levied, to what extent they should be levied against the operators and to what extent they should be legitimately charged against national development, the national economy, the national revenue and national self-interest. Without unduly prolonging the discussion on this matter, we move this amendment in those terms. It will not have the effect of reducing the revenue available to the Government in circumstances m which that may be imprudent because of what has been done. It will have the effect - this is not its real intention - of increasing to some extent the revenue available to the Government. Its more important consequence is to restore equity or produce equity to this extent between the domestic and the international airlines. It is in that context that we propose, pursuant to the general principle we enunciated in the amendment we moved at the second reading stage, that there should be parity between the 2 types of operators. It is in pursuance of this objective that we now put forward our amendment to this clause. We commend it to the Senate. 
Yesterday the Australian Labor Party did not find it possible to support our amendment moved at the second reading stage, ft said that our amendment lacked specification. We are now producing an amendment that has the specification in the direction T have said and for the reasons I have given. In those circumstances we would look to the Opposition to support this amendment. If it does not reduce the level of charges on the domestic operators at least it does introduce the principle of equity, lt does not further truncate the Budget but in fact will assist by some increase in revenue the financial position of the Government, which has been made no easier by the operations of this Parliament in matters that we thought it proper to do so. In those circumstances. 1 commend the amendment to the Senate. 
The motion for deferment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator 
Murphy) will receive the support of the Democratic Labor Party. When be proposed a similar deferment in respect of the amendment moved by our Party to the second reading of the Bui we did not support it. That was a statement of general principle and the Australian Labor Party was unable to support it because it did not particularise. As I said in my earlier speech, this motion does particularise and the situation boils down to this: Allowing for the continuation of the operations of the investigating committee, the question arises as to whether the present position should be maintained or should be disturbed in the interests of further equity. 
If no alteration at all was proposed to the existing charges, in the light of the deliberations of the committee and its hoped-for early recommendations, I do not think it would be proper for as to have interposed any suggestion of determining a re-altering of the rates. But as it is proposed by this increase to alter the status quo in spite of the continuing deliberations of the committee, I think it is equally justifiable at least to inject the element of equity at this stage. 
In our opinion it would be desirable therefore that this proposition be accepted.  Senator Murphy  finds himself in the position with his party that he is unable at this stage to declare their attitude on this particularisation which now emerges in the proposed amendment, but given time, his Party, upon consideration, may bc disposed to support it. Therefore in those circumstances I think we should give the Australian Labor Party the opportunity to do so. For that purpose 1 think deferment of the Bill is condign and warranted. 
I think I should tell  Senator Murphy  and the Opposition that the proposition which we suggest should be deferred is the one we put forward: That is merely bringing to parity, at the domestic level, the 2 charge rates. I do not think we would find it possible to support, for the reasons I detailed in my earlier speech, any alteration to reduce the domestic charges to the international level. T do not think it is competent to expect that because, as I said, it would impose an undue burden on the Budget. 
As for the constitutional difficulty that may lie in the way of this amendment, I thought of this before proposing the amendment and took some advice upon it. My advice was to the effect that the term charges' usually has been interpreted traditionally as a charge imposing something of the nature of a tax, whereas a charge of this nature, although the same term is used, is really a fee for services. This has not been considered a charge in the sense that the Constitution precludes it from being included in the Senate. That was the advice I received at that time and in pursuance of it I was prepared to propose the amendment.  Senator Murphy,  though speaking dogmatically, on a deeper analysis of the situation conceivably may be right. For those reasons we support the proposal for deferment of this Bill. We trust that after that deferment this proposal might find acceptance on all sides of the chamber. 
The introduction of a sales tax Bill or a series of sales tax Bills is nothing unique now in the presentation of financial measures to the Parliament. It has become almost an annual event. On every occasion on which Bills of this nature come forward they are, naturally, resented because of the type of taxation they impose. I think we are all concerned at the fact that sales tax, by its nature, is an imposition  across the  board. It can fall like the rain from heaven equally upon the rich and the poor. Therefore basic concern is felt by members at this type of tax, which is completely impersonal and neutral and fails alike on the rich and the poor. It falls heavily on large families who have a lot of purchases in the fields attracting sales tax. But we must also concede that certain grave financial problems are now presented to those who have the responsibility of framing financial documents in the modern Australian economy. The point is that the margin of financial manoeuvre and of elasticity is becoming more and more reduced and circumscribed every year as our fixed commitments grow. The wider the ambit of the welfare state becomes, the move embracing becomes the solicitude of the Government for various segments of society, the greater is the fixed commitment of the Budget in relation to the provision for those committed services. 
While we do regret these things unfortunately we have to go along with them. If we are going to eliminate some type of revenue we have correspondingly to truncate some type of receipt and some type of government concern. Unfortunately it is becoming the position that one must pay the money and take one's choice. In. relation to sales tax the choice is a very unpalatable one. Nevertheless the concern of this Parliament for the form and the content of the financial documents has been expressed in many ways. Already the Budget has been the subject of a substantial piece of criticism in relation to the imposition of receipts tax. The financial position of the Government in relation to the Budget has been severely eroded by that which has been given a very high priority in the consideration of this Parliament, to the point of the rejection of the receipts tax Bills as presented and the representing of them in a more limited fashion. 
We must accept that to that extent the Government now finds new financial responsibility. Money has to be discovered from some source. Therefore any approach to this Budget must be one which is coloured by a sense of parliamentary responsibility. I am not here to defend the Government's financial measures. Our Party on all occasions faces the situation as it is and particularly faces the realities of a situation. This occasion is no different from others. While we are concerned with the imposition and the extension of a tax and the raising of the level of any impost, we are equally concerned that services which are provided shall continue to be provided. All that must be done within the financial circumscriptions of revenue which already has been limited by the actions of this Parliament. 
To my knowledge additional imposts have been laid upon the present Budget. They have resulted from amendments to the Health Act which, at the instance of the Senate, were responsible for providing an additional $2m or so to Queensland for its public hospitals. Other amendments to that Act will in turn impose additional imposts on the Budget. The receipts tax, of course, imposed the greatest impost on the Budget outside the original calculations. If we were to go on eroding the revenue provisions of this Budget we could finish up in a very serious situation. It is most regrettable that the Parliament is faced with this situation. It may well be a reflection of some general incompetence in the Government that we find ourselves in this position. Nevertheless until new formulae are discovered, until we can discover some new approach and co-operation with the States in a method of levying imposts on direct and indirect taxation and in the destination to which the consequences of that revenue shall be directed, wc have little alternative but to accept the expenditure commitments as they substantially are. 
We cannot. If we are to go on eroding the Budget in the fashion which has been proposed continuously by the Opposition the whole document could be torn up and should be torn up. All those benefits which it purports to direct, pitiful and all as they are, to pensioners and others would disappear. 1 am not defending in any sense the level of pensions which was provided in this Budget. We are taking a strong stand on that. But it does intrigue me that the Opposition is prepared to take strong and unrelenting stands on matters such as this and was not prepared to take similar unrelenting stands in relation to the rejection of the pension and other social services. I cannot understand this solicitude in other fields when the field in which we understood the Opposition was most socially sensitive, the field of social services, did not attract the relenting opposition to the point of proposed rejection. 
That is the only conclusion at which we can arrive. That was merely a smoke-screen. In matters which are not nearly so significant but which are merely opportunities for embarrassing us or the Government the Opposition is now putting up these sham fights. They are no more sincere in this than they were in other fields. That is an inescapable conclusion which we must now reach. It is a conclusion which I must reach in this case. In view of the fact that the Opposition was not prepared to defeat the Social Services Bill I would like to know whether it is now prepared to defeat the whole of the Budget by this process of erosion involving the rejection of the social services legislation. Is the Opposition prepared to do that? 
Why did not the Opposition oppose the Social Services Bill when that Bill came before the House? 
Yes, because it gave a provision. The Opposition knows that the balance of the Budget will not be defeated and therefore it can manage to get away with its failure to reject the Social Services Bill without the political consequences. We are moving now in the shadow land of pre-election. Propositions that are put forward here are not put forward with the same sense of sincerity as they might be at other times. I want to tell the Opposition this: We are going to fight this election as I think the Australian people expect it to be fought, both in relation to the Government and to the Opposition, and that is on the question of the acceptance and discharge of public and parliamentary responsibility. That is the case we are going to present to the country - the discharge of public responsibility, the extent to which the Government may have failed to do it and the extent to which the Opposition has consistently challenged it by its activity in and out of parliament. This type of approach to this series of Bills is another illustration of a total sense of parliamentary irresponsibility. On this occasion if we find it necessary to support these Bills while we rejected the receipts tax Bills it is because we are prepared, whatever the political consequences may be, to accept and discharge our parliamentary responsibility. We are satisfied it is this which the Australian people are looking for. They are looking for a government that will in the full sense accept its responsibility and for an Opposition which is prepared to accept its parliamentary and public duty and responsibility. We are satisfied that because the Democratic Labor Party on every issue has consistently elevated public responsibility to the forefront of its thought and programme of action we will receive corresponding support. The attitude of our Party on this matter is in complete pursuance of that programme of action, and that is what we propose to present to the people. Notwithstanding the implications on people who are going to find the burden of this tax very considerable, in view of the general concept of the Budget we support this proposition. We trust that the official Opposition in its approach will display a sense of responsibility which has been conspicuously lacking from its attitude to other Bills. 
For those reasons and without unduly going into details in this matter an examination of the figures will show, strangely enough, that the amount of additional revenue which will be discovered by this means will to a substantial degree accommodate the increased social service payments so far as they have been made and  without it  might make them more difficult to provide. For the reasons I have indicated the Democratic Labor Party supports this measure, as I say, with regret but in the general acceptance of the necessity to preserve this Budget for such benefits as it does provide. 
My question, which .1 direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, is prompted by a report of a statement attributed to  Sir James  Vernon, Chief General Manager of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Limited. He is reported to have said that a condition of total disaster .faces the Queensland sugar industry if the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement is not taken into account by Britain upon her entry into the European Economic Community, and which in turn would have very grave repercussions on the stability and continuance of the International Sugar Agreement. He said that therefore a total disturbance of the world sugar position, would result. Is the Minister in a position to inform the Parliament on the progress of negotiations regarding retention of the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement by Britain in the light of her discussions on entry into the Common Market? What would be the repercussions to the Australian industry if the agreement were not retained? What alternatives are being contemplated for the Australian sugar industry by the Government in the event that this position inevitably does develop? 
I think it would be readily accepted that 
Australia's best interests are essentially served by the International Sugar Agreement and with particular reference - almost overwhelming reference - to the industry in Queensland. I do not think any of us would doubt that. As to the implications of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community in relation to its responsibility to the International Sugar Agreement, I am not in a position to answer. I am sure the honourable senator recognises that at short notice at question time I could not answer that question. In a sense it is a hypothetical question. It is hypothetical in that the suggestion by  Sir James  Vernon is based on Britain's entry into the Common Market, but that does not appear to be imminent because negotiations are still proceeding. The honourable senator has asked about the carry over effect on the International Sugar Agreement. I do not know. It is a matter for high consideration, very properly, by the Minister for Trade and Industry. I will have the matter referred immediately to him to see whether 1 can attract a reply  for  the honourable senator. 
I enter the debate merely to say that the Democratic Labor Party will find itself unable to support the proposition which has been advanced by  Senator O'Byrne  to oppose the third reading of this measure as it relates to sales tax which will affect Qantas Airways Ltd. We support the Bill. Although I was not here when the honourable senator made his suggestion I am aware that it raises a very important consideration. It may be that with the development of public and statutory corpora tions there will have to be a complete look  at  the role that they are' to fill in the national economy. Qantas is an independent government corporation which makes a contribution to the general economy of Australia, to our national image and status, our international position and things of that character. To what extent that could be computed in that organisation's account's as a credit, and therefore to what extent Qantas should be relieved of charges otherwise to be imposed on the company, is a matter that should be considered in the context of the whole position of the developing concept of statutory corporations. This arises, of course, in respect of the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill which involves Trans-Australia Airlines, which is a statutory corporation, and it will arise in relation to many other things. 
Over the years there has been a development in the attitude to the operation of the railway systems which have been relieved of many charges because they are performing a national duty and making a national contribution. They cannot be required to operate on a completely commercial basis of cash in and cash out of a commercial balance sheet. I feel that if this attitude is to be adopted it should not be adopted piecemeal. There would have to be a national attitude to public corporations. -lt may well be that the whole concept should come under parliamentary consideration or national consideration. Tt is only in those circumstances that I think we should start to relieve the corporations of this charge or that charge or credit to them their general contribution to the national interest. Merely to attack one of these charges piecemeal would in my view be very unwise until the whole problem had been reviewed and principles had been formulated and laid down. Therefore, on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party, I support the Bill 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I regret that the Opposition is unable to support the amendment which I moved on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has acknowledged that some of the reasons which he has given are, in view of the brief amount of time available to him to obtain the views of the Australia Labor Party, personal to him. The amendment embodies 2 principles. The first is the principle of parity between the charges levied on international and domestic airlines. This principle was also embodied in the amendment which the Democratic Labor Party moved to the motion for the second reading of the Bill, lt was spelt out then with the same particularity as it is spelt out in this amendment. Unfortunately, the previous amendment did not receive the support of the Opposition when a vote was taken. The other principle which is embodied in this amendment is the achieving of parity at this stage by increasing the international level lo the domestic level. Of course, this may not bc the best, method of doing it. Nevertheless, in the light of  the further  erosion of the already attenuated national budget and the consequences upon the benefits which are contained in the Budget, it would be a very serious development. The appropriate amendment may have been to scale down the domestic charges to the international level. 
All I hope to achieve from my amendment is an expression of concern by the Senate at the high level of charges imposed on domestic and international airlines and of hope that the charges will be scaled down. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has indicated that this is one of the considerations which are being taken into account by the interdepartmental committee. Therefore, all the Senate can do is impress as firmly as it can upon the Minister the desirability of regarding this matter as sympathetically as possible in the light of the contribution which both the international and domestic airlines ate making to the development of Australia and the presentation of Australia's image abroad. 
The Democratic Labor Party does  not  propose to divide the committee on this matter, lt regrets that the amendment which I moved on behalf of it has not received the support of the Government or of the Opposition, but it has made its point. The Democratic Labor Party hopes that there will not be a repetitious introduction of this type of legislation in the coming years but that as a consequence of the deliberations of the inter-departmental committee the necessity for annual increases in landing and service charges will be eliminated and the contribution of the airlines will be put on a proper and permanent basis. In this way the assurance of safe and economical carriage to those who are the patrons of both the domestic and international airlines will be finally achieved. 
t do not want to say that it is easy to be wise after the event. However, I recall that when it was proposed that we have a whole series of committees, the very position which has now emerged in relation to the Estimates committees and their conflict with sittings of other committees of various descriptions was mentioned. It is obvious that we are to have a multiplicity of committees. It is not only a question of the availability of the administrative staff and of officers of the public administration, but also the sheer availability of senators through increasing demands on their time. It is obvious that we are in a completely experimental phase with this committee work. To some extent we are not masters of our own destiny because now there is emerging a series of joint parliamentary committees in addition to the standing and statutory parliamentary committees. I refer to joint parliamentary committees such as the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Committee. Those committees have to be accommodated within the convenience not of one House but of two Houses. In these circumstances it is obvious that the pioneering stage will present and is presenting considerable difficulties. 
I think the only solution is that possibly we shall have to be more temperate in calling meetings of committees. Unless there is a matter of urgency, they could be postponed. The Estimates Committees are completely ad hoc committees. They are to sit within a certain circumscribed period and for a particular purpose. Possibly their sittings will commence and finish within a few weeks. Therefore, I think that the work of other committees, not presenting the same element of urgency, might well be postponed, so far as the Senate can command that decision, until the Estimates Committees have discharged their duties and the Appropriation Bill is passed, if that is the termination of their work. It will be impossible to try to do all these things. It is a question of determining priorities. In those matters in which we are not masters of our own destinies we put our point of view to the other place. Where we are masters of our own destinies we determine a system of priorities. In those circumstances I think the situation could be not comfortably but easily resolved. I suggest that to you,  Mr President,  and to the officers as a means of solving this very serious problem. 
The matter before the Senate has a very long history. The first chapter was written, as were many other chapters of Australian political history, by the Australian Democratic Labor Party.It was our Party which first brought into this Parliament as a matter of very great urgency the condition of primary industry. When the session opened and the opportunity was given for all parties to introduce matters as private members' propositions, the Democratic Labor Party put three propositions on the business sheet. One of them was of urgent priority. We proposed the establishment of a royal commission to look at the whole structure of primary industry in Australia.It now appears on the business sheet as Orders of the Day No. 2. When that proposition was put before the Senate it was opposed by the Australian Labor Party, which -indicated that it would put forward an amendment to refer the matter to the Australian Agricultural Council which, as everybody knows, is a body of State Ministers for Agriculture that has no executive authority. It would be a totally inappropriate body for this purpose. If ever anything was designed to bury this important proposal it was that amendment. 
The Government, for its part, put up another proposition suggesting that there should be industry submissions. That proposition was formally put forward as an amendment and the debate was adjourned at that stage. The matter came up again when private members' business was dealt with and it was debated.In other words this proposition put forward by the Democratic Labor Party has been before the Senate twice. As  Senator McManus  has said, at meetings of primary producers, particularly in Victoria but in other parts of Australia - in New South Wales and in Queensland - the proposition of the Democratic Labor Party has received overwhelming support. The farmers look to the creation of such a body to investigate the whole structure of rural industries. Belatedly today the Australian Labor Party - the official Opposition - rests the whole case it presents to the Senate on the validity of the proposition which we put forward, which at the time it opposed and which since then it has not been prepared to support in this chamber. Obviously the propounding of this proposition to refer the matter to a 
Senate standing committee - one of the new committees - is merely a means at this stage of political time, on the eve of an election, to steal the thunder of the Democratic Labor Party and to try to capitalise on the heat which has been generated by the resentment of primary producers at the inactivity in respect of legislation and administration in this field. This is a belated attempt by the Australian Labor Party to do something. 
The reason why it now propounds its proposition is that as yet the Government has not seen fit to support the proposition, originally put forward by us, for a royal commission.  Senator O'Byrne,  referring to our proposition and to the date on which it was first put forward - 14th May - deplored the fact that nothing had been done about it and then put the proposition that the matter be referred to a Senate standing committee, lt is only 48 hours ago that in this place genuine concern was expressed on both sides of the chamber, and more particularly by members of the official Opposition, about the difficulty facing the functioning of the many Senate committees, about the impossibility of senators giving their time to the proper performance of their duties on those committees and about the need for a review of the multiplication of these committees. Yet in spite of that concern expressed by both sides, today what the Opposition relies on in its attempt to have 1 of the Senate committees look at a matter of the greatest urgency is the rejection of the Democratic Labor Party proposal. The referral of the matter to a Senate committee would mean a further proliferation of the work . of those committees. That committee, illequipped as it might be to do this job .&gt;f tremendous importance and national urgency, would have to deal with the matter. 
 The committee is set up to receive references, lt already has one reference before it. 1 do not know where this matter would stand in a queue. I would like to canvass honourable senators to ascertain who can give their unreserved time in the next 12 months to the deliberations of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary Industry if this matter is referred lo it. We could canvass all the members on the Opposition side and all would plead that they were tied up with this committee or with that committee and that they would not be able to give their time to it. Nothing is more likely to produce total cynicism in the primary producers than this attempt by the Opposition to refer this most important matter to a committee which in the circumstances must be substantially abortive. 
 It would not meet until at least next March. We have been challenged on this matter.  Senator Murphy,  as is not unusual for him, whatever may be the direction of his attack, directed his attack particularly upon the Democratic Labor Party. He said: 'We know what the Democratic Labor Party will do about our proposal. It will vote with the members of the Country Party and with the members of the Liberal Party against our proposal.' If the members of the official Opposition throw down the challenge to us that they rest their whole case for the referral of the matter to a parliamentary committee on the fact that our proposal for a royal commission has not received the attention of the Government, and if they think that is the best proposal. then we say that we are prepared to foreshadow a further amendment to the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy.  Subject to the amendment being a competent one, I, on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party, will - be moving something to this effect:   and that the debate be adjourned until after the decision of the Senate is taken on Order of the Day No. 2 standing in the name of  Senator McManus. 
That is. our proposal for a royal commission. Now f challenge the official Opposition to say where it stands on our proposal. It will be given the opportunity to vote on the proposal for a royal commission. That is what we intend to do. 
 Of course  Senator Murphy  would say that it is a trick. It is all right for the Opposition to throw around these challenges until they are met. We will move this amendment and we will see where the official Opposition stands now on the royal commission. 
 Senator Murphy  said that no vote will ever be taken. We want a vote taken. We always wanted one taken. We are asking the Opposition to vole with us on this proposition. 
Yes. We will see where  Senator Murphy  stands today. 1 know it is very difficult for  Senator Murphy.  I know this is something that he did not envisage. We are giving the Opposition the opportunity to stand and be counted. The rural producers in all parts of Australia today and in the next week will be observing the political integrity and the level of political sincerity of the Opposition. It is not necessary for me to discuss this matter any longer. The Opposition now has the challenge before it. We will see whether it will accept the challenge. The Government may nol be prepared or able to support us. I think this is a fair proposition. If our proposition for a royal commission has validity  -  I think it has, and the farmers think it has and the Opposition thinks it has - the Opposition will have the opportunity, which it said has always been denied it, to support the proposition. Later today members of the Opposition can vote on the proposition. We will see where they stand. Subject to the amendment being a competent one, we will ask the Senate to vote on this proposition. I do not think it is necessary for me to say any more. At the appropriate time I will move the foreshadowed amendment which will be duly seconded, subject to its being within the Standing Orders. I will ask for a vote of the Senate to be taken on the matter. 
I move the following amendment which 1 foreshadowed: 
That the following words be added after the words of the motion: 'and that the matter be not dealt with until the decision of the Senate is taken on General Business, order of the day No. 2 standing in the name of  Senator McManus'. 
It is not necessary for me to canvass the substance of this amendment because it was discussed in my speech earlier in the day. Order of the day No. 2 in the name of  Senator McManus  is the following motion: 
That the Senate is of opinion that a Royal Commission should be appointed to inquire into the present condition and future prospects of primary industry in Australia. 
We of the Australian Democratic Labor Party feel, as we always have felt, that an inquiry of that nature would be the most appropriate type of inquiry to discover the fundamental problems in the structure of rural industry and that any other inquiry would be inadequate and would not have sufficient technical knowledge available to it. We are now giving an opportunity for those who favour the proposition today but who were against it on other occasions to indicate how they stand on this matter. 
I am prompted to rise at this late stage of the debate and of the day's proceedings, after a very fuJI day of debate, not because the Bill requires any address from the Democratic Labor Party at this stage but because of observances made by  Senator Keeffe. Senator McManus,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Party, earlier in the debate explained the  attitude  of the Democratic Labor Party to the Bill.  Senator Keeffe's  speech contained remarks which require comment. The attitude of the Democratic Labor Party in relation to its conduct in the Senate has been marked, as always, by a determination in all circumstances and, under the greatest provocation, to exercise a sense of responsibility. If the letter to which  Senator Keeffe  referred and to which I shall make reference later had any content of accuracy in it, it was when it stated that in this chamber the Democratic Labor Party was in a position of power. Nobody is more sensitive to that situation than are members of the Democratic Labor Party. It is because the Australian people elected 2 members of the Democratic Labor Party to the Senate almost 6 years ago and 2 further members almost 3 years ago, making the number 4 and giving it a decisive mathematical position in the Senate, that we come here very conscious of the trust that has been reposed in us by the Australian nation. We would hope that our conduct in the Senate and our voting record are reflections of an acceptance of that sense of responsibility and determination. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - Order! I do not uphold the point of order.  Senator Byrne  is entitled to make the remarks he made in the context of the Bill. 
.1 was indicating that our attitude in all matters coming before this chamber has been one of the acceptance and discharge of responsibility as it has been reposed in us by the Australian people. Out attitude to the Appropriation Bill presented to the Senate and under scrutiny by the Senate Estimates Committees, and of which this Bill is a manifestation, being one of the revenue Bills, has been marked by that approach. On occasions we have found it necessary, when discussing the Budget and the Bills that emerge from it, to scrutinise the expenditure and the revenue. As  Senator Gair  said, if my recollection is correct, when addressing himself initially to the Budget, we recognise that it is nol easy to frame a budget and that it is easy to destroy the whole structure of a budget. Any analysis of a budget and any interference with its provisions must be marked with a due regard for the burdens that rest upon the revenue and for the opportunities of raising the revenue. 
The Australian Labor Party, in its attitude to discussions on the Budget and in its attitude to this Bill which is only another manifestation of that, has been marked by total political irresponsibility. Initially it moved an amendment to the Budget. The amendment did not include many of the matters which it subsequently opposed. If one looks through its voting records on .the Bills that have stemmed from the Budget, one finds an almost unbroken record of support for the expenditure proposals and of opposition to the revenue proposals. If one objects to the Budget in toto, one objects to it on the revenue and expenditure sides. Once one is prepared to accept the expenditure proposals and once one wants them extended, one is not entitled to destroy all the revenue proposals. The Opposition has opposed the proposed excise duty increase, the duties on diesel fuel and the provisions of this Bill relating to income tax. It is prepared to impose tremendous additional revenue demands on the Budget by virtue of its opposition to the receipts tax. We oppose the receipts tax. Correspondingly, we recognise the necessity for the Government to be able to obtain, from other resources, the revenue necessary to accommodate that and other demands upon the appropriation. In other words that sense of responsibility which we think should always be exhibited in this place has been divorced totally from the attitude of the Australian Labor Party. 
When  Senator Gair  goes to the electors in a few weeks time, one thing he will be able to go on, backed by his Party, will be that this solemn trust which has been reposed in him and in his Party by the Australian people has not been misplaced. I was also concerned at the assault made on my colleague,  Senator Little,  who has just returned as a delegate- of- this Parliament to the Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference at The Hague.  Senator Little  was not the only member of the Parliament who attended that Conference. The parliamentary delegation comprised members of both Houses of the Parliament. Included in it were members of the official Opposition in this chamber.  Senator Keeffe  will be aware that one member of his own Party in this chamber was a co-delegate of  Senator Little.  It seems to me to be grossly unfair to suggest that  Senator Little  had some sort of a world junket and to that extent he was a burden on the taxpayers of Australia. The Inter-Parliamentary 
Union is a union of non-ministerial members of the parliaments of the world, it meets annually and its meetings are most valuable. Members of all parties of the Parliament seek the opportunity to attend its meetings. Selection of delegates is not confined to any one political party or group of members of the Parliament. It seems to me to be a distortion that  Senator Little  should be picked out for criticism because he happened to be sitting in the chamber tonight. I do not intend to mention the names of the other members of this chamber who were in the delegation. They are known to  Senator Keeffe  and to other honourable senators.  Senator Little  has returned from the meeting pf the Inter-Parliamentary Union but 2 other honourable senators have not. To select  Senator Little  for this type of discriminatory and, I think, unfair attack is unworthy of  Senator Keeffe. 
I was not in the chamber at the time, but I heard  Senator Keeffe's  comments over the address system. If my recollection is correct  Senator Keeffe  referred to a resolution carried by the Innisfail branch of the Trades and Labour Council directing  Senator Gair  to oppose the provisions of the Budget in relation to the payment of pensions. The attitude of the Democratic Labor Party on this matter was stated at the time the Budget was brought down. It was of the opinion that the proposed increase in pensions was inadequate. The Democratic Labor Party expressed its view in a formal manner. However, it was of the opinion that it could not vote to destroy the Budget because of the good provisions which were contained in it. The Democratic Labor Party has always taken the stand throughout its history - it owes its very genesis .to this point - that its elected members in the Parliament will not take directions from any outside body. Accordingly, my colleagues and I will not accept this type of direction from the Innisfail branch of the Trades and Labour Council or anybody else. 
I do not know. I presume that  Senator Gair  would have answered it. If the resistance of the members of the Australian Labor Party to the pension provisions contained in the Budget was generated by that type of direction 1 believe that they have a totally incorrect appreciation of their responsibilities as elected members of the Parliament. It may have been this type of pressure which prompted the Labor Party's resistance. I do not know. The members of my Party would resist this type of pressure! We deplored the pension increase because of its sheer inadequacy but we were prepared to accept it rather than perhaps destroy the whole Budget which did contain some worthwhile benefits. We were not prepared to throw out the baby with the bath water. ) rose only to make those remarks. I wished to express my concern at the type of observation which was made by the honourable senator who preceded me, namely,  Senator Keeffe.  In general terms, subject to the qualifications which were mentioned by  Senator McManus  in his major speech on this matter, the Democratic Labor Party supports this legislation. 
The matter which is before the Senate is one of a succession of matters in relation to the Australian Capital Territory which periodically come before this chamber and occupy its attention. The fact that it is before the chamber highlights the strangely dual character of this Parliament as the governing body for the nation and as the landlord in the Australian Capital Territory, just as it highlights the dual position of the Australian Capital Territory itself as a community of people striving towards the elements of a normal municipality and at the same time being required to assume the character of residents in the national capital. Therefore, there is always a certain aura of unreality in relation to this strange dichotomy between the dual characters of the Australian Capital Territory. 
This is possibly one of the most significant matters that has come before this Parliament in relation to the Territory for some time. Recently we have had before us other matters concerning the more or less day to day operations of the people in the Territory and the imposition of a particular impost by way of charges or taxation. But this is one that is somewhat fundamental in its character and therefore it is one that should occupy the attention of the Senate and of the Parliament with some concern. The Senate is a body which is so equipped that it may, if it sees fit, disallow this ordinance which is now before the Senate subject to disallowance in terms of the statutes. I am indebted to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and to the Minister whom he represents in this chamber, the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  for the comprehensive statements which have been circulated by that Minister detailing the implications of this most important step. 

 Senator Devitt has presented this matter not in any political partisan manner - I think it is a matter that should not be approached in any partisan way. After all, the national capital is a matter of common concern, divorced from party politics. As 1 say, the only partisanship would lie between those who see its progress towards the normality of a municipality at one rate and those who may still see that it must get particular solicitude because of the duality of its existence and its character. That, if anything, is the only partisanship that I think at any lime projects into this chamber in relation to matters concerning the national capital. 
The fact that this is a bi-partisan approach is exemplified by the fact that what we are asked to do tonight stems in part from a consideration and recommendation of a committee back in 1965, which was an all-party committee, lt was constituted of members of the major parties in the Parliament at that stage, and one of the members of it was the now lamented member for the Australian Capital Territory  Mr Jim  Fraser. The committee came to unanimous conclusions, one of which was that there should be a relook at the question of the relationship between rents, charges and rates and also that an interdepartmental committee should investigate the whole question of rentals. In 1967 there was some ministerial intervention in this field, and then the Government turned its attention, through this interdepartmental committee, to the consideration of the whole question, and the proposal now before the Senate emerges in terms substantially of the recommendation of the committee that the matter should receive closer and more deep and penetrating study. 
In the national capital it has been a matter of concern that land should become reasonably available and always at a reasonable price, and without the undue and unfair burden of excessive charges. But certain things have developed in the capital. Because of its strange position there has been a tremendous increase in population - possibly greater than that in any part or city of Australia. There has been a concentration of development here on the initiative of the Government - of the landlord - because of the development of the capital and the transfer of government departments. All of these things have resulted in an accelerated rate of development for Canberra which has brought attendant problems of very great magnitude. Today we are looking at the consequences of these problems. 
When land was taken up here in the earlier days - 10, 15 or 20 years ago - under the leasehold system, the desire to come to Canberra was, of course, more limited. There was not so much excitement in being here. The land values were low and one rather hoped that this position would be maintained. But the contrary has been the case and with the interest in coming to Canberra, with the stimulated development, the stimulated residential development because of the compulsory transfer of whole government departments, there has been an enormous increase in land values, an enormous increase iu laud demand and a tremendous increase in population. Today we find that, by the telescoping of lime, people who came here a few years ago have all the attendant advantages of values determined in those earlier days, when the present position was not contemplated, and of rentals which could not be visualised today as being real. But because so many people did come later on, whether of their own initiative or virtually compulsorily because of transfer, they fell into the common problem of having to discover land and having to discover it in the context of the new and expanded Canberra. Today, therefore, there is this extreme dichotomy of young people and the newer residents paying high prices and high rentals for land, and older residents, with perhaps more valuable land on which a very low initial premium was paid, paying very low rental while their land is not subject, even at this stage, for any further reappraisal for probably up to 10 years. This is a situation that in common sense, In equity and in good economics could not be allowed to continue. 
As I have said, there is this conflict between those who want to accelerate the rate of progress of Canberra towards the normality of a city municipality - and we have had contests in this chamber where it has been put that the people of Canberra should accept their fair charges consonant with the services they share in common with those who live in other parts of Australia - and those who, on the other hand, say that the residents of Canberra would be required to pay for services much greater and much beyond what could reasonably be required or would be provided in any other municipality; that it would not be fair to burden the people of Canberra with charges that should be, at least partially, borne by the nation in respect of its national capital. That is, in brief, the problem that faces anybody trying to approach this question of land tenure. 
We of the Austraiian Democratic Labor Party have always been conscious of the position of Canberra and of the need to see it advanced towards a condition of normality - that is, of normality in the economic, in the social and in the municipal sense. It would give a new self-reliance to the people of Canberra, but we have always argued that, insofar as charges are imposed upon the Australian Capital Territory consonant with those in other parts of Australia, it is not possible justly to do that if the people of Canberra are to be deprived of those liberties which are attached to municipal organisations elsewhere in Australia. If there are to be assumed responsibilities, corresponding entitlements must be granted to the people concerned. Therefore, insofar as the Democratic Labor Party has always supported the contention that reasonable charges should be borne by the people of the Australian Capital Territory, we have pressed accordingly for corresponding freedoms and liberties in the domestic, municipal and even Federal government areas. We feel that that ultimately will not only give the Canberra people what we regard as their entitlements but also will bestow upon Canberra a new character which, up to this time, has been denied to it because of the necessary circumscriptions that have surrounded its people and its development. In these circumstances our attitude to this motion for disallowance is not to support the motion because, having analysed the position as carefully as we can - and it is an analysis made in quite a technical field - we do not see the dangers inherent in this ordinance that those who have propounded the motion for disallowance are able to visualise. 
In the first place we consider that the retention of the leasehold system is highly desirable. But there is nothing in this ordinance which would preclude the complete retention of that which has gone on. While we are debating the substance of the effect of this measure - that is, the ultimate implication of any change from the present method of charging for lease rentals - it is only an interim ordinance. But nevertheless we are discussing its ultimate implications. Those implications, stated by the Minister and obvious from the terms of the ordinance, do nothing to derogate from the principle of leasehold land. It has been suggested to me that the reduction of the lease rentals from what might be called the substantive rental of say 5 per cent to a nominal rental of 5c or even a peppercorn, in some way will have the effect of eroding the very character of the lease until it will trespass so closely upon the freehold tenure that it will disappear and there will be a complete identification. Those who would propound that proposition may be unacquainted with the fact that the nature of the tenure has nothing to do with the level of the rental. Freehold and leasehold are 2 different tenures of land and the fact that the rental on leasehold may be nominal - may be 5c, 50c or the traditional peppercorn - does nothing, as far as I can perceive, to affect the actual character of the tenure. 
The Minister, of course, has drawn attention to this and has said that there is no intention whatsoever of abandoning or eroding the system of leasehold tenure. What it is proposed to do is to make the upset value price of a developmental piece of land realistic in terms of its cost and realistic in the fair charge that might be made to those initially purchasing the land. The Minister gave instances where land, the reserve price of which was to be assessed on the principles which are now predicated by the Minister, would be lower [than the prices which are actually being paid. We would be concerned if young people, who are attempting to secure land here, should be precluded from doing so by unduly high reserve prices. The Minister has pointed out that a formula has been discovered, a mechanism devised, which will be applied so that young people who have not held land here before - and the young people would be those least likely to have held land before - will be able to bid and if they are not able to find money equal to the reserve price the difference between that and the reserve price can be paid over a period of many years at a rather low rate of interest 
 Over quite a considerable period of years, and therefore the availability of land wm not be denied to them. If it were otherwise T think it would be a very serious intrusion upon the legitimate aspirations of young people. We have the extraordinary position in the Australian Capital Territory that there are very wealthy organisations holding land, and have held it for some years, which is not due for reappraisal for many years and paying correspondingly relatively low lease rentals while there are people with far less valuable land more recently acquired who are paying extraordinarily high rentals on the present market value of the land - the assessed value of the land. That is the extraordinary dichotomy and something that I believe must be operating as a grave injustice against many residents of the Australian Capital Territory. As this present programme proceeds from the recommendations of a joint committee, which included gentlemen who are intensely identified with Canberra and its welfare, which has taken some years to complete its investigations and which has examined land sales trends in the area and assessed the future development of Canberra in terms of population and services, we feel that the Parliament is now in a position to look at this matter with considerable objectivity and apaproach the motion for disallowance accordingly. 
One thing that concerns me is the striking of the rate, which will be a compound of the former ren'al and what one might call the proposed municipal charge. Because of the strange dual character of Canberra the rate that should fairly be struck should have no relation to the total level of services provided in the Australian Capital Territory. We who come from other parts of Australia cannot help noticing that the standard of the services provided here for the aesthetic and functional development of the Capital is much higher in proportion than that which is offering in other capital cities. Australians today do not begrudge the spending of money to produce that result. 
 J think that the Australian people are becoming quite proud today of the Australian Capital Territory. Every day more and more people are resorting here by the bus loads. 
Yes. Bus loads of senior classes from the schools are coming here. Perhaps 2 or 3 busloads come down from schools in the Brisbane metropolitan area and further north at least every session. I notice that the halls are always crowded with young people from all over Australia. Today I do not hear the criticism that once I heard, that money was being lavished on the national capital to the exclusion of other parts of Australia. Now that the opportunities for travel have been expanded and the facilities for travel and accommodation are here, and as Australians become more mobile, more people come here. They enjoy coming here and they are proud of the national capital. That is not any commendation for undue extravagance in the national capital, but I think we must recognise as we grow up to maturity that the level of  expenditure here  has a justification that might be denied to other parts of Australia. 
As I say, it cannot be expected that the citizens of Canberra should be prepared to assume an undue burden for this, as if it were a normal municipal obligation. I do not think that the Government will expect that to be done. The compounded charge of rent and rate must be one that is fairly related to the services provided. I notice that the Minister has said it will be such a charge as will have a relevance to similar charges imposed in other capital cities of Australia. 
That is true 
That is comforting, and I would have presumed that was so. In some cases perhaps it will impose an additional burden. In most cases it will not. Bui at least it will give Canberra a rating with other parts of Australia and a relationship which is desirable to the other capital cities. For these reasons the Democratic Labor Party feels that this proposal was absolutely necessary in the light of the extraordinary development of Canberra and the attendant problems which otherwise would have been almost beyond resolution. Various compelling points were made by the Minister, one of which was that as some of the older leases come up for reappraisal the leap forward in valuation will be so great that it will be beyond the capacity of the present lessees to accommodate the new rental related to the new estimated value of the land. Many of these people will possibly have to face a reappraisal at a time when they are on the verge of retirement and when there would be no alternative left to them but to dispose of their property. 
For these reasons, and without unduly prolonging this debate, 1 would say that the Democratic Labor Party cannot find its way clear to support the motion for disallowance moved by  Senator Devitt.  1 know that  Senator Devitt's  motion is inspired by a desire to retain the leasehold system. 1 can sec no threat to that. The honourable senator, on behalf of his Party, is presenting the motion because he feels that there are inherent dangers which we should try to avoid. If my Party thought that that proposition had validity we would find it in our hearts to support the proposition. But we cannot find that. We find that something like this proposal is necessary. It will be equitable. It will confer on Canberra a position which should ultimately be conferred on it. As these changes take place, ultimately Canberra will assume  a  position of greater and greater autonomy in the whole spectrum of Australian municipal and national life. For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party does not support the motion for disallowance moved by  Senator Devitt. 
f wish to make one or two observations on this matter. It is significant that apparently the stimulus to the presentation of this Bill before the Senate came from a commercial cause. As Australia has developed we have found in more recent years that Canberra has become an area of commercial resort for various commercial operatives in many parts of Australia. Advantage has been taken here of the nature of the law. Inhibitions which exist elsewhere may not exist here for companies to establish themselves and to register here, and to become in a legal sense resident here, and for other people to operate and control their businesses from the Australian Capital Territory. In those circumstances it becomes increasingly important that such laws as apply to those who would choose to resort here, whether personally or in a legal corporate capacity, should have such application as would touch upon their activities in other parts of Australia insofar as those activities would violate the law of the place where they have chosen to take up their corporate residence. 
This Bill is the type of legislation that indicates the growing sophistication of business in Australia, the growing integrity of the Commonwealth and the new significance which the Australian Capital Territory is assuming in Australian commercial life. The concern we feel about these developments is probably more unreal than factual. Little is done by this Bill except to resolve some elements of doubt as to the extra territorial operation of the Commonwealth law made in those circumstances. The term which has been used is one which, in expected judicial interpretation, would remove the possibility of such a law being considered as not having extra territorial effect. In fact, the ordinance still only makes the matter a matter of law as it did in another term when it said that it shall have the effect of law. The only point is that it is expressed in terms which it would be anticipated judicially would be interpreted as beyond doubt, indisputably giving such law an extra territorial operation. 
For those reasons the legislation is salutary. lt is prompted by the real demands of commercial considerations and of course will have operation insofar as it affects human beings in the application of the criminal law, and with the mobility which is part and parcel of modern life. Not only within Australia but beyond Australia and throughout the world, legislation of this character has become increasingly necessary. For those reasons the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
It is common ground that the commencement period of the Estimates Committees is one of experimentation. It was anticipated that there would be difficulties accompanying the embarkation on the project of Estimates Committees. Honourable senators will recall the circumstances in which this proposal was put and in which it was adopted. There were 3 proposals for the establishment of committees. The official Opposition presented a proposal for the creation of 7 standing committees, to which the Democratic Labor Party moved an amendment that 2 should be established immediately and that after a period of experimentation a report should be made as to the staffing necessary, the administrative structure, the mode of operations and the demands on the time of senators. At that stage the Government presented the proposal for the creation of the Estimates Committees. That was adopted by the Senate, the other 2 proposals having been rejected. The comments and the criticisms which have been offered about the functioning of the Estimates Committees rather highlight the wisdom of the gradual approach which was projected by the Democratic Labor Party in relation to the standing committees. In other words, it was obvious that it would be difficult to determine what structure would be necessary and how senators would be able to accommodate their time to the demands of committees. That fact has been amply exemplified and demonstrated by the criticisms which are now offered of the Estimates Committees. However, I think that in time these difficulties will be ironed out and that these committees will be able to function efficiently and effectively. 
One point I make in this very short presentation is this: I think one of the difficulties - and it is probably the common source of all the criticism - was that the time into which the sittings of the Committees was telescoped was probably too short a period. 1 refer to the period over which they sat, not the aggregate time that they sat. I understand that that was due to the fact that in the Senate it is the practice that the Estimates are not considered until the motion dealing with the Budget Papers is disposed of. That, as we know, is a very long and protracted debate. The Estimates are not considered until that matter is resolved by the Senate. If that is the case, there may well be a good reason to bring forward the consideration of the Estimates more quickly, even if it coincides in part with the discussion in that debate, so that the period for the consideration of the Estimates can be over a longer time. The difficulties mentioned by Senators Poyser and Cavanagh could be eliminated. Over a longer period of time honourable senators would be able to attend the sittings of the various committees, whereas at the moment, due to the restricted and narrow limitations of time, many senators are denied that opportunity. We could undertake this type of experiment. Consideration could be given to this aspect by the Standing Orders Committee. Generally I think we should be very happy about the way in which the Estimates Committees have functioned so far. I hope - I think it is common ground - that they will continue to function in the future. 
This is an important statement. It is one of the most important statements that have been made to this Parliament for many years - certainly in this session and perhaps during the life of this Parliament, lt involves the future of the rural industries of Australia, to a major degree. Rural industries already ate under very severe challenge and some are faced with virtual disaster. We anticipated that such a position might arise over the years, but when it comes upon us we are nevertheless dismayed. Some time ago I put questions on the notice paper asking the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  whether he was in a position to indicate what would be the implications for Australia and our primary industries in the event of Britain joining the European Economic Community. The Minister intimated at that stage, on 2 occasions, that it was premature to attempt to answer that question as the implications were not known. I accepted that and no doubt that was the position. But the Parliament is now gravely concerned with this matter, as Australia must be. 
The Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has intimated that a delegation will be going to London to discuss with our British counterparts certain aspects in relation to affecting the trade of certain Australian primary industries with Great Britain. I think it is important that such a delegation should be fortified, not merely by the view or attitude of the Government but also by the feeling that it is sustained by the view of the Parliament, as reflecting the view of the Australian nation. In other words, I think there must be a strong intimation by the Australian nation to Great Britain as to how we feel on this matter. I agree with  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that tonight is perhaps not the opportune time to discuss the statement, but I think our reaction should be prompt. I think it should be very severe and I think it should be articulate. For those reasons I move the following amendment to the motion that the Senate take note of the paper: 
At the end of the' motion add: 'and express its immediate concern and intimates to the Government that the members of the Australian delegation will have the full support of all parties in securing a proper recognition of Australia's trading relations with Great Britain as a member of the British Commonwealth of Nations in the forthcoming negotiations.' 
I move that immediately as a response to this proposition . in order to express the concern that we feel immediately. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
This motion will have the effect of standing over a matter in my name, so that the concession which has to be made to the precedence of Government Business is  ;i  concession made by myself on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party. The General Business sheet contains a series of private members' matters. One matter dealt with the setting up of a royal commission to inquire into all aspects of primary industry. Another was in relation to the setting up of a joint select committee to investigate Commonwealth and State financial relations. The third matter dealt with defence. The first 2 have been debated. One has been resolved. The other stands as an Order of the Day on the General Business sheet for debate. At the time the third matter was listed it had a particular urgency because of the absence of any specified and articulated Government defence programme. Shortly after that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a most comprehensive defence statement to the Parliament. The statement of the Minister for Defence answered a great number of the queries which may have been raised during the course of such a debate. Although his statement would not warrant the taking of my notice of motion off the notice paper, its immediate sense of urgency may have been eroded. 

 Senator Murphy has asked why 1 have not taken my notice of motion off the notice paper. Discussions have been held as to whether it should be superseded by other notices of motion standing in the names of members of the Australian Labor Party. 1 do not think that I am trespassing on any confidential understanding between  Senator Murphy  and myself when I say that we have discussed the urgency of my notice of motion. Actually it was superseded last week. It will be. recalled that  Senator Murphy  put forward a proposition for the reference of a matter to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade for inquiry, to which the Australian Democratic Labor Party moved an amendment that it be put aside whilst an Order of the Day standing in the name of  Senator McManus  was discussed. Our proposal received the full support of the Senate, including the Opposition. In other words, the Opposition was a party to this notice of motion being superseded in favour of one seeking a royal commission inquiry into primary industry. It seems to me that it was common consent then that as a matter of priority this matter had lost some of the element of its urgency in view of the statement by the Minister for Defence. 
The question of consideration of Government business now assumes very considerable urgency, particularly consideration of the Australian Wool Commission Bill, which will involve many hours of debate by the Senate. In those circumstances, it appears to me that it is a proper course for me to follow to surrender at this stage, whilst still leaving it on the notice paper, the right to immediate discussion of the notice of motion standing in my name in favour of the discussion of the very urgent legislation which has been and will be presented to the Senate by the Government. Honourable senators will appreciate just how urgent some of these matters are. A number of technical propositions have to be considered, including the application of Commonwealth law within the States as well as the Territories. This is a matter of extreme urgency which involves the rights of the community, including the rights of workers claiming workers' compensation. These rights will be denied in the absence of the passage of this highly technical legislation. In the circumstances, I think there is considerable merit in bypassing my notice of motion at this stage, whilst allowing an opportunity for it to be discussed at a future date, in order to permit the important legislation which is before the Senate to be discussed. 
This is the second occasion on which this matter, although substantially in a different form, has been before the Senate, lt poses in a sense the same difficulty to individual members of the legal profession who have participated here as H did previously. Honourable senators who have participated in the main come from different States and from professions organised on no common basis. We are considering a proposal to organise the profession in the Australian Capital Territory, so far as I can see, in a situation which will not reflect identically any of the situations as they exist in any of the States. Therefore it is only natural that our predispositions, as we come to a particular State, would be by virtue of previous sentimental attachments or by the acquisition of personal and professional experience to favour an emphasis on a system that to some extent reflects our own, as against a system that would represent a departure or a major departure from it. That does pose some difficulty in considering this matter. 
The approach I presented on behalf of my Party on the last occasion, although naturally it may have reflected my own predisposition as one who would naturally be consulted by my Party in this field, was that we favour the amalgam in the legal profession not only as a matter of desirability but almost as recognition of what I consider to be the ultimate inevitability of the professional practice in Australia. I think the amalgam ultimately will take over the divided bars. Irrespective of whether at the moment separate bars are operating where an amalgam does exist - a separation that exists de facto  -  I could not be confident that such separation would continue indefinitely. I particularly respect  Senator Greenwood's  comments and his references to the history of the Victorian bar made by the former  Mr Justice  Dean. Our attitude on this matter is coloured by the fact that if this process is to be developed we must accept it in that way. 
At present there is in Canberra traditionally and by establishment an amalgam which has operated to the satisfaction of members of the profession here, although without any complete formalisation which has been found desirable and has now became urgently necessary. We are faced then with the position, if this ordinance is to be rejected, of an attempt to impose upon a situation something which by its establishment and nature has not operated in that way. I agree with  Senator Greenwood  that attempts formally to impose a situation by law in a conventional and traditional practice have not succeeded. Actually, the development of the practice of both benches of the profession is traditional and conventional. As far as I can see, with some exceptions, the imposition of formalism on it has mostly been the formal recognition of a de facto conventional and traditional situation. Where an attempt has been made to interfere with that traditional and conventional situation it has, as a matter of experience, not succeeded because - to use  Senator Greenwood's  expression - by ingenuity it has been able to be circumvented by the desire of one branch of the profession to maintain its independent existence and continuity. 
In those circumstances, if we are to disallow this Ordinance we are going to attempt to cross the process of history and to impose on the profession in the Australian Capital Territory something which, to my mind, would cut across its present experience. While there is the amalgam, there has developed here a certain element within the amalgam that is practising separately as counsel in these jurisdictions. We must accept that as part of the traditional and conventional development of the profession in this place just as it has developed in other ways in other places. The form of the ordinance as now drafted is an attempt to formalise the present conventional and developed position of the profession here. The former ordinance, of course, was one which was going to truncate completely and cut across that traditional situation. Quite apart from the fact that there were various views held on the amalgam as against separate practice at the Bar, there were those who thought that there should not be this major and formal disturbance of the practice here. 
Accepting the fact that the small de facto separation here is nevertheless operating within the amalgam, this ordinance appears to mc, in its present form replacing the former ordinance which was rejected, to do 2 things. It recognises the overall traditional position of practice here. It does, by the recognition of a separate Bar Association, recognise that there is a position here where some members within the amalgam are operating separately. If we were to disallow this ordinance because of our objection to the existence of a Bar Association, we would be intending to impose upon an existing situation a formal requirement that would rather contradict the success of what has happened in similar situations with similar practices in other parts of Australia. I think that would be undesirable and probably would not succeed. 
The recognition of the Bar Association here really is a minimal recognition. It gives the Association very limited and circumscribed powers. The Association is a voluntary organisation. It has recognition in the right of audience on matters going to admission to the Bar and it has the right of audience and objection in the case of disciplinary matters where a complaint is laid on behalf of the Association. After all, while there is a separate Bar practising here in fact - I think all counsel who have practised in the separated profession or even the amalgam would agree - there are disciplines operating, and desirably so, within the Bar as such. I do not mean disciplines that are going to be exercised here by the common disciplinary body. I mean disciplines of practice and conduct that are peculiar to counsel and can most effectively be operated by counsel applying those disciplines to their own members. After all, the general area of discipline under the proposed ordinance is vested in a common disciplinary body but the Bar Association, if extant and on complaint from that body, is able to present its particular propositions to the common disciplinary body. That appears to me to be logical, reasonable and eminently satisfactory. 
I cannot believe that in any way the mere existence of this body is going to impede, much less inhibit, the development of the process, which I think is more or less inevitable, by which ultimately the legal profession will fall into the general pattern of the amalgam. I do not think it is likely to do it. However I do think that while we have an existing situation - a de facto separation - it is equally appropriate and totally relevant that there should be available within that separation the appropriate bodies to enable that element of separation to function effectively, particularly in the interests of the clients. I think that such operation will be most likely to suc ceed if there is, for the purpose of the small independently practising Bar, an organisation peculiar to that body which will operate particularly in relation to the conduct of members of that body - conduct which, through it, can be brought before the statutory disciplinary body. 
It is not easy for us who come from other Bars to try to direct our minds objectively to this matter because subconsciously we must be affected by our experience and association in different types of practice. For example,  Senator Murphy  comes as do I from a Bar which has separation by law.  Senator Rae  would be in a different position.  Senator Greenwood  would come from a profession that has a de facto separation and, I think, a de jure amalgam. Therefore there is this multiplicity of permutations and combinations of the profession. This is important because if my proposition is correct that ultimately we might witness a trend towards an amalgam which will operate nationally and be common, what happens in the Australian Capital Territory can be most significant. Ultimately, with the resort of the High Court of Australia to this place and a concentration of public attention on the operations of the law within this Territory, because it embraces the national capital, what happens here can very well stimulate what may happen uniformly throughout the nation. 
Therefore, what we are doing today, or what we may be prevented from doing, is not to be considered purely in the local context. It is something of somewhat historic importance. I think honourable senators acknowledge this and approach the matter in this way. I am trying to give this matter a context beyond that of the geographical area of the Australian Capital Territory and, in its full implications, its significance as to the ultimate effect upon the developing pattern of the legal profession in Australia. It is a matter of extreme importance. 
My Party considered this ordinance very carefully, as we considered the previous ordinance very carefully. We found we were unable to support the previous ordinance. However, we think that the present ordinance represents a particularly fair approach to the matter at this stage. If, in the ordinary trend of history, we should find that the separate Bar should start to shrink away and that the amalgam should start to extend and to embrace all practitioners, then inevitably with that there will be an erosion of the significance and the power and, ultimately, the very existence of voluntary organisations that will represent any separate branch of the profession. Therefore, recognising the present position of practice in the Australian Capital Territory and recognising that the trend ultimately maytake us into a completely different professional context here, if we propose to formalise the profession to reflect the present position there can be no substantial objection to the proposed ordinance. 
Because the Senate has so much work before it, because this matter has been substantively considered in relation to the various areas of practice and the general principle of separation and amalgam, and because this brings us into a slightly different field with a slightly different emphasis in this ordinance, I do not think it is necessary to recapitulate much of the material discussed in the debate on the previous ordinance. The Democratic Labor Party resists the motion for the disallowance of this ordinance. 
It is not necessary for anyone to address himself at length to the Bills because the proposed ambit of the receipts duties legislation has already been before the Parliament, at which time this chamber in particular expressed an attitude towards the tax, the type of tax and (he incidence of the tax as originally proposed. The matter has been reconsidered by. the Government in circumstances which are now very well known, and the series of Bills which are being taken together in this debate are. presented for the consideration of the Senate. The second reading speech by the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  on the agglomerate Bills sets out why a number of Bills have to be presented - 1 believe one Bill more than were originally presented. Certain difficulties have been experienced. The new principle is not to exact in the States either the receipts duty which was formally declared to be unconstitutional or even such part of it as was legally and constitutionally and properly exacted by the States. These Bills now relieve the States and everybody else from the imposition of this tax altogether. In future it will not be imposed. 
The second point is that amongst these Bills is one to validate the imposition of the tax until 30th September. The reason for that, of course, is a very practical one. When the Australian Democratic Labour Party had occasion to state its opposition to the principle of this legislation it took the very practical stand that in view of the complexity of any attempt to put the clock back and reimburse those who had originally paid the tax would be a practical difficulty and almost an administrative impossibility. For those reasons we were prepared to support the validation of legislation up till the date which is mentioned in the Bill and which is to be proclaimed by proclamation. 
There is a constitutional reason why the matter has to be presented in that form. It goes back to a decision of the High Court in which it was found that it was possible to arrange for this type of thing only where the legislation was of a transitional character. Where it was not of a transitional character, on the interpretation of that High Court decision, it had to be done in another way. The method devised was this method of validating the legislation up to a date to be proclaimed. That is to give it a definite life and the termination of that life is to be at the date of the proclamation. The type of taxation was not good. It did not have a good principle embodied in it. I think it is a matter of national relief that in its wisdom the Government has seen fit to ensure that this type of tax is not imposed. 
Of course, it does highlight the recurring difficulties in the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States. It did impose a very big additional burden on the revenue of the Commonwealth which was then required to find the moneys which otherwise would have been collected for and on behalf of the States by the imposition of this tax and, coming late in the application of the financial scheme of the Government as embodied in the Budget, it was not an easy decision to make. But I think we are all grateful that the Government has seen fit and has found it financially possible to accommodate the lost revenue within the ambit of its own resources of money which would otherwise have been collected. (Quorum formed.) 
The difficulties which have become evident in the discussions on the imposition of this tax subsequent to its removal and the alternative finance being provided to highlight the basic and fundamental problem of the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States. This has been the subject of concern in the Senate, particularly to the Democratic Labor Party. We have placed on the private members' business sheet in the Senate a motion that there should be a joint parliamentary committee to investigate the whole question of Commonwealth and State financial relations. We do not think that the position should be allowed to develop or to continue in its present form. Ultimately we will have to look at the basic problems involved in Commonwealth and State financial relations. But at this stage at any rate the State governments, having planned their budgets in anticipation of the receipt of this amount of revenue, will not have their budgets greatly affected, if affected at all. Now they will be receiving the revenue from the Commonwealth. If it is not in the same form, it will be in the same amount. 
We in Queensland are particularly interested in and grateful for what has taken place. In a State like Queensland, with its vast distances, transport costs always add considerably to the base cost of a product. The accelerating nature of a tax such as this would have imposed a particularly heavy burden on those who live in the far flung parts of our State. It would have borne very unfairly on a section of the Australian community which at the moment is not in a position to bear such a burden. I refer to the primary producers. I am sure that with the multitude of their problems they are most relieved that they will not be required to pay out additional amounts on the purchase of goods as a consequence of the imposition of this tax. 
There is little more to be said. Of course, we of the Democratic Labor Party hope that these Bills will have a speedy passage and that the moneys will then How through to the States where they can be put to such use as the States devise according to the revenue they receive. Ultimately this was an example of the solicitude or regard of the Commonwealth for the problems of the States. Originally the Government went to bat for the States at the request of the States. When the legislation was proved unconstitutional by the High Court, the Governmentfound it was unable to present its Bills in a form that was to the satisfaction of the Parliament. Then it discovered an alternative method of finance and, 1 suppose, in the operation of the federation, this is a practical way of solving the problem. We commend this series of Bills to the Senate, and we welcome their immediate passage. 
1 am interested in this particular principle embodied in the clause because, as the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  says, it was at the instance of the Senate in consideration of another Bill that this principle was written into that particular Bill. On that occasion there was provision that a salary or an allowance be fixed by regulation. The Senate decided it should be fixed by statute but, in order to provide for the interim period, it was proposed originally that it should be fixed by regulation and subsequently, after a certain date, by statute. The Senate was not altogether satisfied with that proposal and I think I might have made an alternative suggestion that the salary be stated to be fixed by statute but that a dispensing period be given to a certain date up to which it could be fixed by regulation. That is the principle that is embodied in this clause, precisely as it was stated by amendment by the Senate on that other occasion. The reason, if 1 remember it, that was given on that occasion was precisely the reason the Minister has announced on this occasion that it would be impossible to determine the salary while a man was being selected for the job and until, perhaps by negotiation, that salary was able to be actually determined and acceptable, it was impossible to fix a salary. So I think that this clause, allowing for the reason which prompts it, is in pursuance of the very strict insistence of the Senate on the former occasion and is completely in accordance with the lines which were then laid down. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. By way of preface I point out that over the weekend a Press report spoke of a considerable fall-off of 15 per cent in the number of British migrants - described as the cornerstone of the Australian immigration policy - coming to Australia in the last 10 months. And further that 27,000 people- 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I will move the following motion: 
That the Senate is of the opinion th.it the Government should establish immediately a National Rural Finance Corporation as u means of providing long-term low-interest loans and the funding and refinancing of rural debts, including an interest-free and non-red emotion period for the debts so funded. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry: 
What progress has been made in negotiations regarding the retention of the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement with the United Kingdom, in the light of recent discussions concerning Britain's entry into the Common Market. 
What would be the repercussions to the Australian industry if the Agreement were not renewed. 
Is the Government considering an alternative market for Australian sugar in the event of the Agreement not being renewed. 
The British Government has notified the European Communities that it will be seeking special arrangements covering Commonwealth sugar exports. It is our understanding that this aspect of the negotiations has not yet been taken up in Brussels. 
The terms of the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement provide for the modification of the United Kingdom's obligations under the Agreement after 1974 inthe event of British entry to the European Economic Community. The possible effect of any such action on the Australian sugar industry would depend on such factors as: 
the terms and conditions laid down for British entry: 
the extent to which any Australian sugar displaced from the British market could be accommodated in alternative market outlets and the realisations from such sales. 
The marketing of Australian sugar is under continuous review by the Government and the industry itself. 
I intend to move that the debate be now adjourned. Because I think the Senate is entitled to know what has inspired me to consider such a motion I would like to point out, with the indulgence of the Senate, that standing on the notice paper under Orders of the Day for debate is the report of the  President  of the Senate on the establishment of committees generally. I propose to move the adjournment of this debate and, to the motion that the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting, I have in mind moving an amendment to the effect that such resumption take place only after consideration of Order of the Day No. 1 1 on the notice paper, which is the President's report on the creation and developing of standing committees. Therefore, I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question put. 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate, by some suitable procedure, provide this House with an opportunity to debate the consequences to Australian trade of the emergence of the European Common Market, more particularly in the event of Great Britain joining the European Economic Community, with the resulting need to develop new patterns of trade especially in South East Asia? 
There has been a lot of publicity in more recent times in relation to the proposed entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community. Indeed on a recent delegation overseas of which I was the leader and  Senator Byrne  was a member, we had an opportunity to go to the headquarters in Brussels to be given an exposition of the various aspects of the European Economic Community. "The honourable senator has asked whether we should not use some forms of the House to precipitate a debate on this matter. I should like to think about that because the question of timing is involved. For example, we have been reading that the United Kingdom Chancellor of the Exchequer has been in negotiation with the Ministers of the European Economic Community in relation to the financial aspects of British entry. We have been told of certain developments between the parties as to whether or not the Parliament at Westminster will decide whether Britain will join the European Economic Community. Perhaps this question could be put on notice to give me a little time to consider whether it would be appropriate and timely for us to debate the effects on Australia of Britain's entry at a time when so many critical decisions have yet to be taken. I am not sure that this is an appropriate time to debate this matter. My immediate reaction is that perhaps it would be untimely to do so at present. 
I propose to move an amendment. I am not clear on the amended motion presented by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator 
Murphy). I do not know when it is intended by him that the debate should be resumed. 
In that case I move as an amendment to  Senator Murphy's  motion: 
Leave out al] words after 'That' and insert 'the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for the next day of silling, but not before consideration of Government Business, order of the duy No. 11.' 
That order of the day relates to the report by the  President  on committees of the Australian Senate. This matter conies up at this stage at the initiative of the Democratic Labor Party. Firstly, I should like to advert to the situation referred to by  Senator Murphy,  in respect of which he said that there was some arrangement that this matter would be proceeded with. To use the honourable senator's own terms, he was not suggesting that the Government had reneged on the arrangement. 
Let it be clear that if any arrangement was made that this matter would be proceeded with, to my knowledge the Democratic Labor Party was not a party to such an arrangement. Therefore, if there has been any breach of faith -  Senator Murphy  certainly does not allege that against  Senator Sir Kenneth.  Anderson - no charge can be levelled against the Democratic Labor Party because we were not aware of the arrangement. Perhaps it would have been much more prudent if the Leader of the Opposition . hod chosen to acquaint us of his intentions in this regard. This matter has stood on, the notice paper for quite a long time and it has come up on at least  18  occasions on which it might have been proceeded, with. But on no occasion has it been proceeded with. In those circumstances we would have had no warrant for believing that it was going to be proceeded with on .this, occasion. Perhaps the Senate would have been better served if  Senator Murphy  had chosen to include us in the arrangements that he made or the agreement he came to with  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. 
We are concerned at the charge made by  Senator Murphy  that in some way the Democratic Labor Party has all along sought to sabotage the formation and operation of the committee system. That charge is completely spurious and is totally untenable. There is no party in this chamber that has more conspicuously or more enthusiastically supported the adoption of the committee system, and no parly has supported it more articulately in this chamber. But more importantly, no party has participated personally through its members in the functioning of committees of all kinds to a greater degree than has the Democratic Labor Party. If one looks at the committees set out on the notice paper one will find that the Democratic Labor Party is represented on almost every committee of the Senate. Of the standing committees,  Senator Gair  is a member of the Library Committee, and of the legislative and general purpose standing committees he is a member of the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. Of the select committees, he is a member of the Senate Select Committee on Off -Shore Petroleum Resources. The Democratic Labor Party is represented also on the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse and the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. On the estimates committees, every one of our entitlements to representation on 4 committees was taken up. Therefore we have served on every committee which has been available to us and ours is the only party whose Leader serves on a select committee. 
Since the inception of the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources which has been sitting for many years  Senator Gair  has served consistently and with great dedication on the Committee. Therefore, to say that the Democratic Labor Parly has in any way attempted to sabotage the committee system is to make a spurious charge, one that is quite untenable and one which is resisted and resented by the party which sits in this part of the chamber. I think that on reflection  Senator Murphy  will agree that the charge is unsustained. When this matter was coming up and we decided that this should be the course of action that we would pursue, [ informed the Government Whip and also  Senator Poyser  what we proposed to do.  Senator Poyser  asked me whether I had spoken to  Senator Murphy  about it and then said that he would acquaint  Senator Murphy  with it. Therefore the Democratic Labor Party had informed both the Government and the Opposition as to the course of action it proposed to take. That is a courtesy that we always try to extend to the Government and to the Opposition. We did not depart from that practice on this occasion. 
The Democratic Labor Party has taken this stand in pursuance of a consistent attitude which has been taken by the Party in relation to committees since they were first mooted in this chamber. We know that the establishment of committees is a very good thing and an historic thing, but also we have a sense of responsibility to the public revenue, to the people at large and to the Senate to ensure that by some excess of enthusiasm this chamber should not embark upon some complicated and expensive system of committees without adequate investigation by a process of trial and error. Consequently, when' the proposal was originally presented that there should be established 7 standing committees, we moved an amendment, which was defeated at that stage, that 2 only of those committees should be established and that, following their establishment, there should be a report from  Mr President  and from the Clerks at the table as to the manner in which the committees had operated and what proposals, suggestions, improvements, emendations or corrections would be required for the on-going work of the committees and for an extension of the committee system. That has always been our policy. 
Our proposal, defeated at that stage, was subsequently carried by resolution of the Senate some months later, as a result of which these 7 committees were established. Only 2 of those committees were given immediate viability, they being the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare and the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade, to each of which references have been made. At other times matters of this kind have come up for debate in this place and we have taken stands as to the type of matter which suitably could be referred to this type of committee as against matters that could more properly be referred to select committees of the Senate. We have been quite firm in our attitude to those matters. Therefore, in our attitude to this matter we are completely consistent with what we have done from the inception of the consideration of the committee system. We have always supported committees. 
 We have always supported commitees. We have always proposed a policy of gradualism. I think that if, particularly at this time of financial stringency, the Senate had embarked lightly and indiscriminately upon the immediate establishment of 7 standing committees with their total infrastructure and consequential expense, it would have been subject today to a charge of gross lack of prudence in the expenditure of public moneys. The fact that wc can present to the public the process we have followed and the practice which we have adopted - that there should to a period of trial and error, that it should be a process of festina lente - enables us to go lo the public and say that these committees operate in the public interest and that we have the public interest in mind in the method by which we establish them, the numbers in which we establish them and the way in which they will function. 
Since we have been charged with sabotaging committees, it is interesting to note that there is one very important committee on which we do not serve, that is, the Standing Orders Committee. That is not because we do not want to serve on that Committee. We do want to serve on it but we understand that the Opposition has denied us the opportunity to serve on that Committee. It has opposed our membership of it. To that extent I must rely on hearsay evidence. But that is the reason why, on the notice paper under the heading 'General Business' there appears in my name notice of motion No. 7 which seeks the appointment of  Senator Gair  to that Committee, together with other honourable senators. It is extraordinary that those who would deny us membership of an important committee on which we want to serve should now charge us with sabotaging the committee system as though we did not support it at all. Unfortunately, that is the type of attack to which we have been subjected. We have served on the estimates committees with. I think, constant attendance and I trust with some fruitful participation. 
The wisdom of our attitude is demonstrated when one reads your report on the committee system,  Mr President,  which is now before the chamber and consideration of which is an order of the day. It seems an extraordinary thing that, as the Senate resolved that this should be the method adopted for the establishment of further committees, any move should be undertaken at this stage which in effect would cut across and violate the decision of the Senate. To move now for the creation of any other committee or a reference to any other committee when this report is actually before the Senate seems to me to be trespassing upon the decision which has already been made. I could not imagine a more inappropriate time to bring forward this motion in  Senator Murphy's  name or his motion to refer to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare the introduction of a national superannuation scheme, lt would appear to me that prudence itself would dictate that both these matters be allowed to stand aside until a discussion of the President's report. The infrastructure required for such committees, and the demands on the time of senators have now been investigated. After considering the President's report we could go ahead and, if necessary, consider the matters which  Senator Murphy  has placed on the notice paper under General Business for reference to the standing committees. 
Therefore, we think that this is the rightful, the prudent and the wise course of action to pursue. We hope that the Senate in its wisdom will agree with that proposition and will let these matters stand aside. Our attitude is not to discuss the merits of these matters at this stage. We may have firm views on the types of reference - we have expressed those views - which should be made to standing committees. Honourable senators will recall that lime and time again we have thought that standing committees were not appropriate for the reference of major investigations which would take long periods of time and probably involve travel from place to place. More particularly is this so when it will result in a queue of references which will have to stand in their place for long periods of time while the personnel of the committee changes and while interest in the subject may well be lost. 

 Senator Murphy has suggested that housing is a matter of some consequence and should be the subject of immediate reference. Nobody denies the importance of the subject. Nobody denies that it might well warrant some sort of investigation. The question is what is the appropriate body to do it and the depth in which it should be undertaken. Let us look at other notices of motion on the notice paper in relation to the appointment of select committees - in the name of  Senator Murphy  or of other members of his Party. There is a whole host of them. I have on the notice paper a proposal for the appointment of a select committee on defence.  Senator Murphy  has given notice of a motion for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into the structure, recruitment and management of the Commonwealth Public Service.  Senator Devitt  has given notice of a motion for the appointment of a committee to inquire into and report upon the land tenure and land administration, planning and development in the Australian Capital Territory.  Senator Murphy  also has given notice of a motion for the appointment of a joint select committee to inquire into and report upon the laws and practices presently observed by the Government of the Northern Territory. Those are the major matters. 
The point is that if this type of reference is made to standing committees all those motions for the appointment of select committees will have to stand aside and take their place in order of importance and urgency. Personally I do not know just what order  Senator Murphy  or the members of his Party would give one as against the rest, but it does seem unfair that a motion like the one before us now should be allowed to supersede all the motions for the appointment of select committees. Once we are appointed to one of these committees we are required to forgo membership on select committees. Therefore, to say that this matter is of great urgency is not correct when it is compared with the relative importance of all the other matters to which  Senator Murphy  subscribes. 
There is another notice of motion on the notice paper in the name of  Senator O'Byrne  in relation to Commonwealth and State financial relations. Some requests for the appointment of select committees have been stood over as orders of the day. There is a host of references. Are all those matters to be put aside merely because of this reference to a standing committee? If we are to embark upon all these things willy-nilly we will get into a position which will be totally intolerable because the demands made upon the time of honourable senators will force them to sever themselves from participation in other committees. That, of course, would be a disaster for the whole of the committee system. The wisdom of gradualism is demonstrated by the notice paper as we now see it. 
We have before us a comprehensive report on estimates committees and standing committees which has taken up a considerable amount of your time,  Mr President.  It is the outcome of consultation with senators who have participated in the various committees to ascertain the difficulties they have experienced - difficulties of accommodation and difficulties in the provision of staff and matters of that character. It seems most appropriate that this report should receive its airing and attract discussion in this place first. When the general principles embodied in this report have received the attention of the Senate we will know where we are going and to what extent motions such as that proposed by  Senator Murphy  will be accepted or rejected by the Senate according to the capacity of the standing committees to deal with them. 
For those reasons,  Mr President,  I feel that the amendment which I have proposed should have the concurrence of the Senate. It seems an eminently sensible method of procedure. We can discuss the general principles and when we are satisfied that our course is planned and we know where we are going we can take aboard, to use the term of the Leader of the Government, these more specific references to see whether the committee system is able to accept them at this stage. So,  Mr President,  I commend this course of action to the Senate. I believe that if it is followed we finally will have placed the whole matter on an orderly basis and the Senate will be able to proceed, having satisfied itself that it is proceeding with prudence, in the light of all the known facts and in the light of the experience of the participation of honourable senators. 
Then, if it is decided that one or more additional committees should be created, wc will have to decide which of those committees should be made viable. After all, the type of motion that  Senator Murphy  has propounded contemplates the appointment of the Standing Committee on Social Environment because it contemplates that there shall be an immediate reference to that Committee when the members are appointed. If that motion is carried it is, if not directly and specifically then at least indirectly and inferentially, a decision by the Senate that such a committee should be appointed. 
 lt is a decision that such a committee should be made viable and the members should be appointed. But, on consideration of the President's report, the Senate might well decide that the viability of that Committee should not receive thai type of priority but that the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs or some other committee should be the next to be established. 
Therefore, I believe that it would be unwise for us indirectly to tie our hands in relation to the establishment of this Committee when the whole structure is coming under consideration and the questions of the establishment of an additional I, 2, 3, 4 or 5 committees and which of those committees, if any, should be established will receive our particular consideration. For all those reasons I commend to the Senate the amendment moved on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party.  Mr President,  perhaps you could indicate whether that amendment requires seconding. If it does, it will be seconded in due time. 
I rise merely to indicate that the Democratic Labor Party supports in principle and generally the provisions of the Bill. There are one or two matters with which we might find ourselves at variance with the Government and those matters may be raised in the course of the Committee discussions. It is interesting and salutary to find this sensitivity and concern regarding the undue control of television stations in a limited number of hands. As is always the case, no matter what legislation is introduced, we find that by some manoeuvre it is possible to bypass the discipline and to go on one's merry way. The provision that interests purchased in other companies by the use of superannuation funds shall be considered as interests held by the first company is an indication that this practice has become prevalent. This is an attempt to quell it in the future. That raises a question as to the datum point from which this provision should operate. That will receive consideration from the Democratic Labor Party when the matter comes before the Senate in detail. 
The necessity for constant scrutiny of the administrative procedures of the Australian Broadcasting Commission becomes apparent also. We see that there is provision in the legislation for the control and audit of accounts and also with regard to the disposal of property and other matters of that nature. This type of Bill is necessary from time to time. It does not embody any great principle; it merely puts emphasis on the practical implementation of certain principles. For that reason we support it. 
The provision relating to the service of summonses by mail for failure to have the necessary licence and the consequences to an unfortunate person who may not be served is a matter which will come up in some detail at the Committee stage. At that stage the Democratic Labor Party will indicate its position. I merely mention one other thing. Together with other members of the Senate and the House of Representatives I had the opportunity of being shown colour television in France. I do not know what system was used. I am not technically equipped to recall what the system was, but having seen colour television in the United States of America and Britain I am satisfied that the French system was as near perfection as any I have seen. I most certainly think that if and when colour television comes to this country earnest consideration should be given to the adoption of that or a similar system. The American system, whatever it may have been, is harsh and unattractive and unless I saw it demonstrated on very bad television sets I think it is one which we should try to avoid. Having said that, the Australian Democratic Labor Party substantially supports the Bill. 
 For reasons which are now abundantly clear to honourable senators, the virtue of these amendments is quite apparent, and the Democratic Labor Party supports them. I rise merely because I am finding some difficulty in reading proposed section  132a (4.)  (c), which states: 
Where- 
the evidence before the court of the service on the person of the summons requiring him to appear before the court in relation to the charge was an affidavit that, under sub-section (2.) of this section, was evidence that the summons was served . . .  lt becomes clearer as I read it. But is the Minister quite sure that the drafting there has not faltered in some minor respect?  1  am not quite clear, lt may be correct. I am a little uncertain about it. I would be grateful if the Minister would consult with her advisers on it. 
The discussion taking place in this chamber tonight is by no means unique here. It highlights what is becoming a definite dichotomy between 2 points of view on these matters. The same situation has been discussed in relation to the right of entry and search provided in legislation for the poultry industry. The points of view taken on that occasion were the balance between the facilitation of administration and the rights of individuals. The same sort of principle has been discussed here in relation to the fixation of the salaries and allowances of high ranking officers of public corporations. Tonight we have heard it again. This definite division manifests itself whenever this principle or a mutation of it comes before the Senate for discussion. 
There is no final solution. Some individuals participating in the debate will say: 'It is important that we facilitate the administration, and providing we can give reasonably adequate protection to the rights of the individual, well and good.' On the other hand, some will say: 'It is most important that we give protection to the rights of individuals and then we shall attempt within that circumscription to facilitate public administration.' Where the emphasis lies, on one side or the other, does not warrant any final conclusion. The same situation is illustrated tonight by the proposal of the Government and the suggestion put forward by  Senator McClelland. 
I merely make the point that it is the province of public administration to see that the law is observed. If prosecutions are launched and convictions recorded the department involved has a responsibility to justify those convictions if they are challenged. Let us take the position that there is an indefinite and indeterminate right of appeal. There would be a very firm obligation on the Department concerned which served a summons and launched a prosecution in this way, and had seen a conviction recorded, if it is then faced with the infinite possibility of an appeal to preserve all the records in that case. That would have to be done. Over a period of years one would not know in which cases challenges and appeals were going to lie so those records would have to be kept for 10, 20, 30. 40 or 50 years. Again this is a matter of where one places the emphasis. Is the possibility of injustice so remote as not to warrant that, or is it so proximate as to justify the heavy administrative burden which consequently would be imposed? As I say, there is no final solution. 

 Senator Murphy in good faith arrived at a conclusion.  Senator Greenwood  with equally good faith arrived at a contrary conclusion. I would place myself in the same position. I have considered this. The Government by the presentation of this amendment has shown that its attitude is Well, we are trying to facilitate the general administration and we are trying to provide reasonably adequate safeguards for the rights of individuals which might otherwise be the subject of public trespass.' The Administration says: 'We think that there must be an end to the ability to appeal, that common sense dictates it and public administration warrants such limitations on the right of appeal. After a reasonable period of time the right would lie only by leave.' It appears that that is not an unreasonable compromise between the 2 situations. I suppose like every honourable senator I have some doubt as to where the emphasis should be put. Two amendments have been proposed which attempt to deal with this position. Both recognise the need for some protection for the individual but. again, (he question is on which side the emphasis should lie. We feel that here the emphasis should lie in the amendment proposed by the Government. We think it adequately meets, so far as human ingenuity can. the fair demands of public administration and provides as fair a protection for the rights of individuals as can be devised in these circumstances. For that reason the Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the Government's amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator McClelland's amendment)  be left out. 
The Democratic Labor: Party has considered the amendment which has been moved by  Senator McClelland.  We have sought explanations from the Government and we have received an explanation in terms which the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  has placed before the Committee. 
We have decided to back the Government. We considered the matter on its merits as we always do. The Democratic Labor Party has examined the Government's proposal. Because no transaction, as I understand the Bill, would escape the provisions which are embodied in the Government's proposal to amend the Act, because the effect of the amendment would be to introduce . legislation with retrospective effect only, and. because this would have no practical operation to control any transaction, we think, that, in the balance, it would be much better if the original proposal were adhered to and the avoidance of legislation with retrospective action was not contemplated. In those circumstances, we support the Bill and we oppose the amendment moved bv  Senator McClelland. 
I know that. I thought I should raise it before the motion presently before us is carried. 
If the Government saw fit to support my motion relating to the Standing Orders Committee and if  Senator Murphy  was able to indicate that his Party would support it there may be no need for debate, lt would be carried and disposed of. Then we could proceed to discuss the President's report on committees of the Senate. 

 Senator Sir Kenneth AndersonSubject to concurrence. 1 would be happy lo follow that course, but I would not wish the matter to be debated at this stage. 
-I can understand that. They are precisely the terms on which I discussed it with  Senator Murphy. 
Will  Senator Murphy  endeavour lo discuss this matter with his colleagues so that it may be disposed of today in view of the coming week's recess? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I rise on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party to indicate that we do not support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  The consensus in the chamber is that it desires to preserve academic autonomy to the greatest possible extent. Strangely enough,  Senator Murphy  thinks that that would be more appropriately accomplished by the amendment he projected. On the other hand others think that if these matters were continuously brought under the scru tiny of Parliament and were subject to disallowance, this would have the effect of truncating autonomy. 
I favour the second view; that this would have the effect of truncating and circumscribing such autonomy as we wish to confer upon the universities. 
The university lies, in one realm, in that strange intermediate position in which the public corporation lies in another area. The day to day affairs of the public corporation are not subject in any particular sense to parliamentary scrutiny, the reason being to preserve the commercial viability and initiative of the independent public commercial corporation. In the same way it possibly is appropriate that the university, in its day to day operations, should not come under the complete daily scrutiny of Parliament so that its intellectual viability and its level of intellectual initiative can be preserved. They can be best preserved and maintained and developed in an atmosphere of considerable academic liberty. 
For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party is unable to support the amendment. However I think there is a lot of merit in the suggestion made by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  to  Senator Murphy  in the course of the debate. As there appears to have been no particular formal consultation with the authorities concerned, the Minister suggested that the Bill go through and that some initiative be taken to have such opinions canvassed and disclosed. The matter could be raised at a later stage if, according to the views and advice of the experts, it was considered that Parliament should be the appropriate body rather than  His Excellency  the Governor-General. 
 For the reason indicated by the Minister I do not think it would be wise to delay the Bill. After all, student representation is important. Because of the views expressed it may not be wise now to delay the Bill. Such delay could be open to undesirable interpretation. In all the circumstances 1 think the Bill should go through now. I oppose  Senator Murphy's  amendment but I commend to him and the Senate the suggestion from the Minister about consultation and subsequent action if it is considered desirable. 
This is in a sense an historic night in the Senate as we move more firmly into the establishment of what we hope will be an ongoing and inbuilt part of the operation of the Senate and of the parliamentary system in Australia. The debate tonight, revolving as it does around the report presented by the  President  in accordance with the terms of a resolution of the Senate, is gratifying to the Australian Democratic Labor Party because it is in conformity with the suggestion that we originally made to the Senate. When the proposition was put forward not merely for the appointment but for the immediate viability of 7 standing committees, we suggested that as it was an experimental operation we should not do that but that a policy of gradualism should be embarked upon. 
We moved that 2 committees should immediately come alive and that after an operating period there should be a report from the  President  to the Senate on their mode of operation and any problems associated with embarking upon them. The President's report is in terms of that suggestion. At the time our proposition was defeated in (he Senate, but subsequently it was re-presented in substantially the same terms, and that is why the report we are discussing is now before the Senate. The report falls into two parts. It deals, first of all, with the estimates committees and then with what we commonly call the standing committees. 
The estimates committees are for Australia a pioneering effort. In discussing this matter with the  Clerk  of Committees in the House of Commons the other day, I was interested to learn that, whilst the House of Commons has had committees by the name of estimates committees, that name has now been changed to expenditure committees. They have never operated in the sense in which our estimates committees have already operated. As far as I could gather, they did not deal with the Appropriation Bill as it was proceeding through the legisative chamber. They seemed lo make a retrospective examination of the previous estimates, and that perhaps is why they have now more appropriately been called expenditure committees. To thai extent, the expendiure committees ofthe House of Commons appear to be rather an extension or an arm of what we call the Public Accounts Committee. If I have assessed the situation in the House of Commons correctly, our system here is probably very much more worthwhile and is very much in advance of that system because we deal concurrently, in the intimacy of committees meeting on a departmental basis, with the actual estimates each year before they have their final passage through the legislative chamber. 
No. We had a very short interview. That was not discussed in the course of our deliberations but I was informed that the House of Commons was changing the form of its present estimates committees. Candidly, I was a little surprised to find that these committees make a retrosypective examination rather than a concurent examination. That is my understanding of the situation from the short discussions that we had. However, our estimates committees have operated on the occasion of the annual Appropriation Bill. The wisdom of the way in which we embarked upon this whole exercise was then established because problems did arise - problems of accommodation, of the availability of senators, of work loads, of administrative infrastructure and things- of that character, lt is only by virtue of the difficulties we experienced and the manner in which we moved to overcome them that now we can go forward with some optimism and sense of sureness of purpose as to how these committees will operate in the future.  I  am gratified to see that they will again operate in relation to the incoming Appropriation Bills. 
The staff members associated with the committees are to be congratulated on the speed with which they moved into the operation of these committees. After all, it was a completely new field and a completely new era. Staff had to be obtained and trained; techniques had to be devised: and assistance had to be given to senators, who were, of course, completely unfamiliar with procedures of this kind. Everything went very well. Hansard reports of the evidence taken were available the next day, and reports of the committees were presented to the Committee of the Whole. Now we have this report from  Mr President,  which was no doubt compiled with the co-operation of the officers at the table, on the whole mode of operation of the committees. I think that those procedures are very greatly to the credit of the administrative staff of the Senate, the officers at the table, the committee officers and all those associated with this initial effort. 
I come now to the second area of operations and refer to our standing committees, which, if anything, are more likely to cause us concern. That part of the motion presented by the Leader of the Government which appertains to the standing committees asks for a variation of the present system by reducing the number of members on a standing committee from 8 to 6. That does not particularly concern the Democratic Labor Party because under one system or the other we would have the same representation. We would have one senator to a committee, at least to the limit of the available committees, and one position would be made available for independents who might be in the chamber. I must say that, having had some hand in the drafting of the initial resolution providing for the appointment of committees of members from minority parties, I anticipated with not inconsiderable and almost brilliant foresight that there might be an entree of independents into the Senate. That prediction was only loo validly confirmed a few months later. 
1 could be if I tried. What is very important is that the motion as it stands provides for the acommodation on committees of the 3 independent senators, 2 of whom will take their places in the Senate for the first time on 1st July. They will have a very important role to play, and therefore they should quite properly be embraced within the committee system and have their oportunity to participate and their right, and even their duty, to participate. Therefore, whilst I can see the necessity for reducing the membership of committees from 8 to 6, I come back to the question of the work load on senators. This will be a continuing problem. I am concerned that, if the work load becomes too heavy, senators eventually will experience frustration. They will be unable to devote to these committees the time they consider to be warranted and rather than do the task in a slipshod manner they may sever themselves from a committee and concentrate on only one or two committees. Therefore, we have to be very careful that we do not make the work load altogether impossible for individual senators. If the membership of committees is reduced from 8 to 6, as is now being suggested, this will at least contribute in part to the alleviation of the situation and the solution of this problem relating to the work load on senators. 
Another suggestion embraced by the motion of the Leader of the Government is that the quorum for a standing committee should be 4. I agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  that if 3 was an appropriate number in a committee of 8, 4 seems to be an inappropriate number in a reduced committee of 6. In any case, 50 per cent is a high percentage to be required as a quorum in any organisation or body f should say that if the quorum is placed as high as that there will be many occasions when it is impossible to constitute a formal and valid meeting of a committee. I support the Leader of the Opposition in his suggestion that the suggested figure for the quorum be reduced from 4 to 3. I do not agree with  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that if the quorum were 3 it might deprive the Government of what could be called the control of the committee. With the 2 committees presently operating and a quorum of 3 there might well be a committee which, having a quorum, would not be under the control of the Government, no Government members being present. Vet the Committee would be validly constituted and validly operating. 
We come now to what, are in a sense the more important parts of the motion moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and the suggestion for the establishment of two more committees. The number of committees that we should have has been a matter of continuing difference between the Opposition and the Democratic Labor Party.  Senator Murphy,  on behalf of his Party, consistently has moved for more committees. He originally moved for the appointment of 7 committees and then moved that all seven be made viable immediately. For the reasons which have been set out on a number o occasions by one member or another of the Democratic Labor Party we have opposed that and we have all along supported the policy of gradualism. We think that is justified in the event and we think there is no reason at this stage to depart further from it. 
We think therefore that the establishment of two further committees at this stage, making four in all, with a third still to be established, is again a fair creation of committees in what is still an experimental stage because, as the work load with 2 committees had to be examined and caused some concern, now that we have created an additional 2 committees there will be a re-assessment of the work load and again it may be necessary to proceed to the appointment of 1 further committee after a period of time. I strongly urge upon the Senate that it was with wisdom we adopted the suggested policy of gradualism, and I think circumstances have justified the adoption of that policy. Similarly, circumstances do not justify any departure from it at this stage. 
Therefore, the Democratic Labor Party supports that part of the motion which proposes the creation of 2 additional committees. Whether we should establish the 2 committees that are suggested or 2 others, or whetherd we should establish another  1  as an alternative to one of those suggested, is another matter. On behalf of the Democratic Labor Party  1  indicate that we feel that a standing committee on education, science and arts should be given imediate viability by hte appointment of members. As to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, I was a little inattentive at the time, but I think  Senator Murphy  adverted particularly to that Committee. Is that correct? 
lt is suggested that this committee should include finance for the States, statutory authorities and local government. We feel that that committee should take priority over many others. We know that one of the great problems facing Australia today is the current, continuing and chronic problem of the financial relationship between the Commonwealth and the States. We have moved an urgency motion in the Senate to discuss the matterIn that discussion  Senator Devitt  directed his attention particularly to local government finances. Such matters come within the terms of reference of that committee. Undoubtedly the Senate is not a finance House. It is a States House and this seems to be particularly a matter that is relevant to the Senate as a States House. It is fitting that it should create such a committee early in the history of the committee system and perhaps have a reference to it. 
Therefore my Party is disposed in adopting the Government's proposal for the immediate establishment of 2 committees to give priority  to  this committee which, in the resolution of 11 th June last, is described as the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, its terms of reference to include finance for the States, statutory authorities and local government. The next named committee is the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. At the appropriate time and in the appropriate manner we would be prepared to move, the necessary amendment to the motion moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson unless, with the concurrence of all parties, it was agreed that these 2 committees might be more appropriate than the 2 propounded in  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's motion. 
I turn now to paragraph 2 (e) of the motion. It relates to a matter that has constantly concerned the Democratic Labor Party. Again there is a difference between the Opposition and the DLP on this matter. A number of references have been suggested to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare and the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. We have protested that we did not think the standing committees were appropriate bodies to receive what I have called massive references that may require interminable investigation and movement from place to place. If massive references arc to be loaded onto the standing committees they will bc denied an opportunity to perform what could be their best, most important and most valuable function, that is, a quick examination in a limited field of something that requires the immediate attention of the Senate. It may be something in the nature of a Bill. 
I thought today as we discussed the Australian University Bill, on the question of powers under university statutes, that that matter could appropriately be referred to such a standing committee. If such a committee had before it a massive reference such as that on handicapped children which has been referred to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare - or the currently suggested reference on housing, or one concerning a national superannuation fund - either those massive references would have to be put aside under the pressure of intrusion of smaller matters, destroying the continuity of investigation and prejudicing the interest of the committee- 
That may be right. I think the committee would have to decide, unless the Senate of ils own will were to determine the priorities. Assuming that a committee, with the best will in the world, is faced with a massive reference, say, on the establishment of a national superannuation trust, and two or three smaller references came to it, it would have to decide which to lay aside. Constantly massive references would be laid aside until they had lost all significance and possibly would be out of date. 
Let us take one or two of the references which are suggested and appear on the notice paper.  Senator Murphy  has suggested as a reference to the 
Standing Committee on Health and Welfare the introduction of a national superannuation scheme and the methods of financing and operating such a scheme. That would be an immense technical operation. I suggest that if it were considered that a Senate committee of some character was the appropriate body to investigate such a matter, the type of committee equipped and relevant for the inquiry would be a select committee. I make that suggestion for a number of reasons. Firstly, recruitment would be conducted amongst those with a particular interest and skill in the matter. The area traversed by the investigation would be conned by the committee. Nothing else would intrude, at least within the body of the administrative structure supporting that committee. 
I think it would operate more efficiently and effectively, and possibly it would operate ultimately more rapidly. 1 am aware that there is a difference between  Senator Murphy  and myself on the nature of the references that should be made to the standing committees. I agree with the comment of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that major references of a very embracing character which would take a long time for a penetrative investigation or an in depth examination and may require movement from place to place and Che taking of considerable evidence, are inappropriate for the standing committees. I share  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's opinion on that matter. 
The reference suggested by  Senator Rae  - an investigation into Tasmanian shipping freights - seemed to fall within a limited field and seemed therefore to be appropriate to this type of committee. No doubt we can expect a report on that subject in the near future. If massive references are made to these standing committees, a number of them will be lying around, some not dealt with, some half attended to, some with reports in the course of preparation and some inquiries not embarked on at all while all other matters are put aside. Another possible difficulty is that Bills would take priority in the references to standing committees. 
Government proposes. Would the honourable senator agree to the 2 that are suggested plus another one, making 3? This might be a compromise so that everyone could work together. 
1 do not want to make an issue of it but I still believe that 2 established committees plus 2 now to be established would be adequate at this stage. Whether we would extend to a third committee to make a total of 5, with 2 to be established, would need to be considered. It is not a question of great rigidity. It is a genuine attempt to allow the committees to function as efficiently as possible. We favour a policy of gradualism and prudence in operation, particularly at this time when there is a certain element of financial stringency. It is a time when, with the creation of these committees within our hands, we should keep in mind the general situation and make our approach with a certain amount of financial caution, although possibly the infrastructure and administrative structure necessary substantially to support the committees have already been provided for and financially voted. 
There is not much more I want to say, but I think I should refer  to  Senator Murphy's  comment on the establishment of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Naturally, that is a committee to which one would expect the professionally qualified members, the lawyers in the Senate, to gravitate. 
And perhaps with the assistance of the gentlemen concerned they could be of some value. 
I know that  Senator Wright  had the unfortunate experience of having on his Estimates Committee about 4 lawyers and I think the interrogation was naturally rather tense and certainly somewhat protracted. 
No, I would not say it was irrelevant and I trust it was valuable. As I look at the notice paper I see the committees on which the lawyers are serving. For example,  Senator Greenwood  is already on two or three committees,  Senator Rale  is  on two selectet committees and on other committees,  Senator Wheeldon  is on two select committees and a third committee and I am on two committees. Therefore, honourable senators will find that if we were to establish a Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee those who most appropriately would bc appointed lo it and would gravitate towards it are already extremely heavily are also on other committees? 
 Senator Murphy  particularly developed an argument about the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee and he spoke about the lawyers attending it. But they are the ones who are very heavily committed. Other senators, of course, are committed equally on other committees. That is an illustration of how it may be difficult to gel lawyers to serve on that Committee until some of their present commitments have been dissolved. Therefore, I do not think it would be prudent al this stage to proliferate these committees unduly. Whether or not the Senate in ils wisdom thinks it should go from two further committees lo three further committees is something which will no doubt emerge in the course of deliberation. My own disposition at this stage would be to be conservative - though  Senator Murphy  will say that is probably not unusual - and to adhere to the establishment of two further committees. I suggest that the second of those committees be the one to deal with finance, particularly Commonwealth and Stale financial relations. I feel that is a boiling cauldron of trouble in Australia and with the new significance of the Senate if is a subject to which Australians might well expect the Senate to devote early attention. For that reason I think it is a committee on which those who are interested and equipped might well be asked to serve. 
No, it should be a standing committee. I am concerned could be dealt with in segments. Dealing with  Senator Devitt's  point, I think this is a subject which could be dealt with in various aspects. Commonwealth and State relations could well come up in various segments and be handled by the standing committee. It is a subject which that the committees, small in number now, might not be equipped with suitable personnel lo handle matters of this character. Therefore, I would hope that when matters of great significance are referred to a committee other senators might attach themselves lo it in the capacity of participants, though nonvoting participants, and give the necessary technical strength lo the committee. Having made those observations may 1 sum up the position of the Democratic Labor Party. We support the report of the  President.  We are gratified that the committees have functioned as well as they have and we see no reason why they should not go from strength to strength in their operation, particularly as senators become better equiped and more skilled in the method of participation and the method of making the committees work. 
We must face the fact that there will be a tremendous turnover of senators as from 1st July and, therefore. Party nominations to these committees should await the apearance of  the  newly elected senators. We are gratified a nd I think the Senate should be gratified with the way the committee system has worked up to this point and with the same care and attention and the same degree of prudence, there is no reason why it should not go on and become an inbuilt function and an indispensable part of the Australian parliamentary system, fulfilling a role to which Australians will look with gratification, acceptance and agreat sense of consolation in the knowledge that matters of high Government policy are constantly receiving close and continuous scrutiny. 
This Bill is one of probably a series of Bills we can expect with the development of the modern commercial society and the application of modern technology to business processes. It is an interim measure in anticipation of a final Bill which will deal with the whole system of the drawing, negotiation, presentation and honouring of cheques in the commercial community. 
In the modern world cheques arc assuming a completely new place. Even people who formerly were considered to be of rather humble economic circumstances today have not only savings bank accounts but cheque accounts. Cheques are more liberally used throughout the commercial community and the social and domestic communities, and if we remain addicted to ancient and obsolete commercial processes the time consumed in processing them will reach astronomical proportions. 
Anticipating this position, the Manning Committee was constituted to look into the use of cheques and it is proposed that a comprehensive measure will be introduced following the presentation of its report. While that report is in the process of being put into operation, apparently there have been developments in the method of processing cheques and in the application of technology to cheque control. We were told that the prospective Bill was technically difficult to draft but we have an assurance from the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  that the matter has now been commended to the First Parliamentary Counsel and that with the lines laid down it will be possible to draft and implement these controls. In the meantime it is necessary to provide, as a salutary operation, for a situation which will be finally dealt with in the final comprehensive measure, lt will deal with the proliferation of cheques and the unnecessary labour and expense involved in adherence to the ancient requirement that cheques made payable to order be endorsed. 
The implications of the signature of a payee on the back of an order cheque are rather complicated. They are the subject of many judicial decisions, and of variations and mutations of decisions. In general terms the signature is a protection to the parties concerned and it is a custom that has been honoured and preserved for that reason. It is found in the modern world that the protection afforded is altogether undue in the light of the fact that the bulk of the cheques negotiated are paid into the payees' accounts. Apparently this cumbersome procedure has been persisted with unnecessarily. The object of this Bill is to dispense with this in the circumstances set out by the Minister. Once this is done certain implications and certain legal situations arise and these also have to be dealt with. Therefore consequential amendments to the Bills of Exchange Act have to be provided for also. In the circumstances and without unduly keeping the Senate engaged on a matter which is of an interim character and which will receive the concurrence of all parties in the Senate because obviously it provides for modern commercial developments, the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
Bills of the nature of that now before the Senate have been debated here on other occasions. This 'Bill deals with one of Australia's major industries. Usually a Bill such as this requires explanation at the instance more .particularly of honourable senators who represent Queensland, and to some extent honourable senators who represent New South Wales, as the great bulk of our sugar is grown in Queensland and northern New South Wales. Very often our good friends from other parts of Australia do not properly understand the economic condition of the sugar industry and the role it plays in the Australian economy. A home consumption price is determined for the sugar industry so that exports of sugar may be sold at prices determined by agreements or on the world's market, the free market, which will return an economic dividend to people engaged in the production and processing of sugar. 
Very often it is not understood by our good friends in the other States who are required to pay the higher domestic price that it is necessary to sustain not only an industry but also part of the continent of Australia. When the world price for sugar is below the Australian home consumption price there is a natural tendency to criticise the existence of the machinery by which the home consumption price is determined, but there have been occasions when the world market price has risen above the home consumption price. In that circumstance, of course, the Australian consumer receives the benefit of the situation and not so many complaints are heard. 
The Queensland sugar industry is important not only to Queensland and the people engaged in it but is also of tremendous importance to the Commonwealth of Australia. About 8,000 farmers are engaged in the industry, the bulk of them in areas north of Brisbane. I refer particularly to the Moreton district, Nambour and Mossman. Some sugar growing also takes place in northern New South Wales. It is substantially the sugar industry that has kept the coastal area of northern Queensland populated. It is in the interests of the Commonwealth that the eastern littoral of Queensland and the northern part of the Commonwealth should be populated and settled by people engaged in an industry which is economically viable, gives them sustenance, enables towns to be developed and viable communities to be established, maintained and continued. I am sure that our good friends in other parts of Australia are conscious of the great role the sugar industry is playing in the Australian economy in general, and in the settlement and the maintenance of settlement over the continent of Australia. 
We must remove the misconception that the sugar industry is a sort of pot of gold industry. That is not so. The sugar industry is a viable, efficient, rural industry. It is an industry which, of all the rural industries, is perhaps the most conspicuous in self discipline. That discipline is traditional. It is supported by the co-operation of the grower, the miller and the governments of Queensland and New South Wales, who by an ingenious system of determination of areas of production, of assigned lands, of cane to be supplied to the mills, of farm peaks and of mill peaks regulate the amount of sugar that may be produced in any 1 year to attract the best price which is available. The sugar produced is divided into certain pools, the sugar produced within the peak attracting the best price and the balance attracting prices outside the contractual or fixed home consumption prices. 
The sugar industry abides within self imposed discipline and statutory discipline. This system of discipline was conceived back in 1915 or thereabouts by the then Labor Government of Queensland, and it has been continued ever since. But it is not merely the discipline in the sugar industry that has made the industry so economically viable or so competitive. It has achieved success because of the continued development of efficiency in the growing, milling and selling of the sugar crop. With the assistance of the Bureau of Sugar Experimental stations in the development of new types and varieties and the continuous dedication of scientists to the elimination of diseases, the Queensland sugar industry has remained in the very forefront of sugar efficiency throughout the world. Therefore in good times and in bad the sugar industry of Queensland, though the sugar is produced at white labour wage levels in a high cost country, has been substantially able to compete with countries which produce at a very much lower wage level. That is a reflection of the efficiency of the industry at the growing, processing and marketing levels. 
In more recent times the Queensland sugar industry has experienced many vicissitudes. It has moved from a position of very great stability to a position of some uncertainty. Some years ago there was a major expansion of the industry in expectation of continued high world prices. Unfortunately, that level of prices did not persist and great difficulty was experienced, more particularly by new growers who were introduced into the industry. However, with great fortitude the sugar industry has passed these problems and has maintained its production. The main outlets for the sugar industry in Australia are these: First, there is the sugar which is sold on the Australian market for domestic consumption. That amounts to probably 400,000, 500,000, or 600,000 tons a year. (Quorum formed.) That is the third quorum which has been called for the last quarter of an hour. Since I was the  speaker  when only one was sought, I would not think that I have driven honourable senators away from the chamber. Nor, of course, can I claim to have reattracted them to the chamber. 
Although the debate might appear to be of interest to Queensland only, as I said earlier it is of conspicuous importance to the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia and I would hope that all honourable senators would be attracted to participate in or to hear it. I refer more particularly to my friends on the Opposition side who apparently have not seen fit to respond to the call for the quorum, which was raised by one of their own colleagues. There may be some reason why they are not here; perhaps they are involved in some meeting. But that is the unfortunate position. 
As I was saying, the Australian sugar crop is substantially sold, as it was in 1969, for Australian consumption. In that year 660,000 tons were sold for home consumption. Under the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement we sold 335,000 tons to the United Kingdom, and under a particular quota we sold to the United States 165,000 tons. Our total exports for 1969 were 1.406 million tons, with exports to Canada amounting to 159,000 tons and exports to New Zealand amounting to 101,000 tons. I think they are all short tons. Those figures indicate the pattern of the sale of Australian sugar. As one examines the figures one can see how important each component of the selling pattern is. I refer to the maintenance of a home consumption market and then the retention of the contractual markets, which would be those under the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement, the quota to the United States, the quotas to Canada and New Zealand, and then of course the major, sale of sugar recently made to Japan. When all those factors are taken into consideration the bulk of the Australian sugar crop is accounted for, but each of those components is of tremendous importance. If any of them were to diminish or to fall, the Australian sugar industry could be in very considerable trouble. 
Unfortunately, troubles do face this industry. I had the opportunity recently of attending, as my friend  Senator Lawrie  did, the opening of the Queensland cane growers conference in Brisbane which was opened by  Mr Anthony  and which in turn was addressed by the senior vice-president and junior vice-president of the Queensland Cane Growers' Council. Those latter two gentlemen drew attention to a number of difficulties facing this industry which, as I have said, in the ordinary conception of the Australian people is totally free from problems. When we note the difficulties as presented by those gentlemen we realise how vulnerable this industry is. We must retain the Australian home consumption market and the home consumption price. This is the very basis of the existence of the Australian sugar industry. With a fair return on sugar marketed for home consumption, we are able then to negotiate contracts at acceptable contractual prices in other parts of the world. 
I will deal with three or four areas specifically. The first is the United States of America, where we now have an increased quota. That has not been easy to obtain and it is not always easy to retain because, after all, the United States has obligations, political and otherwise, in other national areas. It attempts to discharge those obligations, particularly to the developing countries and more particularly to developing countries in South America. Therefore there is always a degree of uncertainty, of vulnerability, in our market in the United States. However, we have obtained an increased quota in the American market. Contractual arrangements such as we have with Canada and New Zealand are possibly much more stable and much more permanent. One of the great problems that faces Australia is the emergence of the European Economic Community and the probable and almost certain participation of Great Britain in the European Common Market. That is one of the really grave problems. 
As I have pointed out, we sell an enormous amount of sugar on the British market. That is a contractual arrangement. That contract will persist until 1974. After that, if Britain enters the Common Market, there will be a period of merging, of diminution and of phasing out in which gradually the quota will be dissipated and Australia will have to look elsewhere for an alternative market for that amount of sugar. The consequence of this could be very severe indeed. If that market were to disappear completely and if that amount were to be unloaded suddenly on the world markets, the International Sugar Agreement under which Australia and other countries sell on the free market internationally would be totally disturbed. Therefore, it is probable that the Agreement will be phased out. 
Recently I had the pleasure and honour of participating in an Australian delegation which visited a number of Eastern and Western European countries and particularly of making a visit to Brussels to have discussions with representatives of the Common Market countries. Subsequently the delegation visited Great Britain. The future of the sugar industry and of the Australian sugar contractual quota with Great Britain were raised, more particularly in Britain. I am of the opinion that Great Britain, if it wants to enter the Common Market, will not be able to extend any particular solicitude to Australia in relation to its contractual sugar agreement under the British Commonwealth Sugar Agreement after 1974. I am satisfied that the Common Market countries are quite rigid and unrelenting on this. Europe will be in a position to be a net exporter of beet sugar, which is comparable with cane sugar. 
Great Britain will be given no opportunity to retain the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement. If Britain asks for any consideration to be given to it and if that consideration is given, it will possibly be given to underdeveloped or developing countries of the British Commonwealth rather than to Australia which today, by virtue of discoveries in many fields of primary production - I do not mean rural production only, but metals and other things - has a developing and diversified area of production and export. For that reason, with some degree of cynicism perhaps, Australia will be given no particular solicitude. I do not think Britain will be in a position to ask for any. If it is asked for, I do not think it will be granted. 
In those circumstances, what can we do? We must face the situation that the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement will be phased out after 1974 and that we shall have to find alternative markets. I suggest that at least we should attempt to get a longer period of phasing out than is contemplated at the moment. I do not think the period of phasing out has actually been specified, but a not unduly long period would be conceived. I think we should ask for a longer period. 
That could present a problem. Cuba is what might be called a sugar economy. There is a great deal of international sympathy for what might be called the sugar economies. Those are the comparatively undeveloped countries which are substantially, if not totally, dependent on one crop - in this case, sugar. Cuba is in that position. Cuba is selling substantial quantities to the Soviet Union. It used to sell substantial quantities to the United States. In recent years the Cuban sugar industry has not produced sugar as efficiently or in the quantities that it formerly did. I think I am fair in saying that. Cuba produces tremendous quantities of sugar. If the American market were open, for political or other reasons, literally there would have to be a cutback of quotas, including the Australian quota which was 165,000 short tons in 1969. The quotas of other countries would be pruned back similarly. That could be a danger to the Australian industry. 
The Australian industry could be vulnerable if such an event occurred. It could be particularly vulnerable if Britain joined the Common Market, because of the attitude of the Six to the retention of the British Commonwealth Sugar Agreement and because of Britain's attitude, springing from the demands of necessity and the pragmatic requirement that if it wants to join the Common Market it cannot expect to do so on terms that are totally unacceptable to the Six. In those circumstances, as we have expanded the Australian sugar industry following the report some years ago of a committee chaired by  Mr Justice  Gibbs and as a lot of capital has flowed into the sugar industry, it is most important that by one means or another we retain and expand the present level of production and that we retain the present level of commitment to the industry in personnel, in capital and in other ways. 
We sell a great deal of sugar to Japan. We sell that by contract and on terms which are satisfactory to the Japanese. They are not easy bargainers. They demand, as people in commerce are entitled to demand, their standard and their price. If our other markets fall away, I think we have to look at the relations between Japan and Australia. Queensland particularly has to look at these arrangements and see whether it is possible to expand our sales to Japan. Obviously there is a tremendous opportunity here, but at the moment the balance of trade between Japan and Australia is extremely adverse to Japan. We cannot expect Japan, which is already buying tremendous quantities of our base minerals - iron ore, aluminium and others - to continue doing so freely and without discipline while at the same time we impose heavy tariffs on Japanese imports such as motor cars and electrical goods. 
Therefore, if it becomes a matter of the preservation of a major industry such as this - and it is responsible for the settlement of a large area, of the continent of Australia - Australia will have to be regarded as what might be called a single industry economy, just as Cuba is regarded in that sense. Various parts of Australia., and particularly of Queensland, are substantially single industry economies. That industry is the sugar industry. Internationally, that proposition will not be accepted as applying to Australia, as a whole, but we may look at that proposition on a national basis and decide that if we have to protect this area we have to make agreements with potential sugar customers, particularly Japan which wants to export more of her secondary products to this country. Therefore, the matter should be one of concern to the Commonwealth Government and to the Queensland Government. 
I personally and the Party for which I speak would persist with our suggested attitude that if Japan is prepared to buy more of our sugar there should be a reciprocal lifting of any excessive tariffs on certain items of Japanese production so that, redressing the balance of trade, we can assure an increased sugar market for Australian production. That seems to be not only wise but also fair and just. It may well be the solution to our problems. I think that in many cases Australian manufacturers have had substantial tariff protection against products from other countries, including Japan. If Japan is prepared to buy our primary products, minerals and other goods, there is no reason why sugar should be excluded. If the Japanese are prepared to buy more, I think they should be given some corresponding tariff advantages in relation to some of their secondary exports. I certainly believe that this is something which should be in the contemplation of the Government, as I am sure that it will be of great concern to the Australian sugar industry. 
This Bill deals particularly with the home consumption price. It is part of the rather intricate but very viable pattern of organisation of the sugar industry in which, by agreement between the State of 
Queensland, the State of New South Wales and the Commonwealth, the national crop is acquired and then a price is determined which shall be the home consumption price at various rates and on various terms and conditions on which the Australian people shall pay for their sugar. This is the first principle of the Bill: By statute to renegotiate this agreement which has now gone on for many years and which has been renewed from time to time. The other aspect of the Bill is to increase the rebate that is granted to those who use sugar in processing jams and other things where those things are to be exported. A rebate is determined so that they can compete fairly with similar overseas products which are processed with sugar produced at a lower price. 
The home consumption price is a reasonable thing for the protection of this industry. Generally speaking, I do not think the Australian people believe that in the context it is an unduly high price. I am satisfied that, whatever the resentments or misunderstandings may have been years ago, today the Australian people accept it as a fact of Australian life that, without any undue profiteering, the domestic price paid for sugar today is a not unfair and not unreasonable price. But if the Australian consumer is being asked to pay what might be called a somewhat artificial home consumption price he must be satisfied that he is not being exploited by an industry which is wallowing in wealth and in which the producers are extraordinarily wealthy and without justification are receiving artificial price support. I think it is an accepted fact that that is not the case. The Queensland industry is efficient. It is disciplined. It is an industry of economic viability and economic strength. It is not an industry in which great sums of money are made and enormous wealth is accumulated. 
I think the honourable senator is referring to when the manual handling of sugar was eliminated and bulk handling came in. Of course, there would be a saving; but the capitalisation for the introduction of bulk handling was very considerable. I am sure that the honourable senator, like other honourable senators, has seen the enormous facilities which are necessary for the bulk loading of sugar. 
I do not discount that. Nevertheless, it is one of the inevitabilities of life, whether industrial or economic life, that if that position had not developed and if bulk loading had not been permitted there would have been such a loading of cost on to the sugar industry that ultimately the industry might well have collapsed. Then there would have been a total displacement of labour both in the sugar industry and on the wharves. After all, if the turnround is extraordinarily slow shipowners are not interested. Over the years we have seen a diminution in the number of ships visiting Australian ports, particularly northern ports. Much of that was due to the slow turnround of ships and to the economic disadvantages as a consequence of it. 
 That is what I am saying. Had the ships been required to be there for the manual loading of sugar and had bulk loading not been permitted, ultimately there might have been great difficulty in having the sugar lifted at all. So, if  Mr Fitzgibbon  or any other officer of the Waterside Workers Federation cooperated in this matter, it would have been a co-operation springing from a recognition of the realities of the situation and the ultimate consequences that might have come to the waterside workers in the absence of such recognition. 
On this question of the sugar price,  Mr Anthony,  in speaking in Brisbane the other day, indicated in fairly firm terms that it was not proposed to vary the domestic price at the moment, recognising, as I recognise, that the sugar industry has to bear the additional costs of inflation just as other industries - primary and secondary, but more particularly primary - do. Although there would be justification for increased prices in that industry as there has been justification for increased wages - demands that might be resistable - he indicated that an industry that is prepared to exercise discipline could well exercise restraint in this matter. I was at the gathering at which he spoke. Perhaps there was an element of disappointment amongst the growers who were represented there. But I did not hear any particular complaints or any howling and whining about it. It was accepted as a fact of life - and very greatly to the credit of the organisation concerned. 
 It was in Brisbane. 
Only last Friday. The members of that organisation apparently have accepted that as a fact of life. They would have preferred a higher price and they thought it was justifiable. I would probably share that view. Nevertheless it was one of these restraints that the industry is prepared to accept.  Mr Anthony  was not able to hold out any expectation .that the position might be varied. The industry is conscious of the dangers that face it and of the difficulties that are presented to it immediately. I take the liberty of reading some short extracts from 2 of the speeches delivered in support of  Mr Anthony's  speech by the senior and junior vicepresidents of the Queensland Cane Growers Council at that meeting on Friday. The senior vice-president,  Mr Row,  said: 
It is important, however, to keep the present industry prospects in clear perspective. Although we have enjoyed a satisfactory No. 1 pool sugar price in 1969 and a similar final price appears in prospect for 1970, it must be remembered that the industry is by no means on the crest of a wave of prosperity. In fact, it might be said that the industry is climbing out of a trough of considerable adversity experienced during the years 1964 to 1968. 
Your own Government- 
He was speaking of  Mr Anthony's  Government -  . . was instrumental in helping us to maintain some semblance of viability by means of loans totalling $23m and through devaluation compensation. This financial assistance prevented the industry as a whole from suffering the sort of structural damage from which it may have been virtually impossible to recover in any reasonable time, at the level of cane price likely to be received. 
During this half-decade of bare existence operation, the industry was forced to practise a number of economies which did not accord with sound management practices. For instance, equipment which is normally subject to heavy use was unable to be replaced at the appropriate times. 
The result is that growers are now faced with abnormally high replacement costs which leave very little change from current cane prices. 
In other words, this is a period of consolidation for the industry and we will need several years of good sugar prices and favourable seasons before we will be back, on a sound footing. 
I mention this because this Bill asks the Australian people to accept an additional burden of cost for producing Australian sugar at above world prices. Therefore, it is only just that the Australian people should know the condition of this industry as justification for the maintenance of this supported price. In the light of the statement I have just read and the denial to the industry of an increased price for home consumption sugar, the industry is still prepared to go ahead on its present level and, in spite of all the disadvantages to which it has been subject, to retrieve itself within the present price and return structure of the industry.  Mr Row  went on to say: 
It must not be overlooked that the price paid to growers for their cane is no higher today than it was 10 years ago. This is not a very edifying truth for the average cane grower. 
It is a fact of life that the price has not changed for many years.  Mr Row  continued: 
Therefore,  Sir, the  industry may find itself in a position in which it looks to the people of Australia to continue the long established policy of a reasonable price for a high quality and readily available product. 
That seems a very reasonable attitude. I believe that, in making that appeal to the Australian people, this industry will not be disappointed. I think the Australian people recognise that it is a worthwhile industry, it is not an industry that is exploiting the consumer, it is merely receiving the support necessary to maintain its viability and in the light of uncertain world demand this is the only solution for continuing a proper economic level within the sugar production industry. The junior vice-president,  Mr J.  T. Elliott, said: 
The industry records its appreciation of the financial assistance which the Government has made available each year since it decided not to devalue in sympathy with sterling. We have made a further approach for the 1971 season . . . 
There was a very severe disability for the industry in the refusal of Australia to follow sterling down. The Commonwealth did come to the party with assistance that was welcome and appropriate. But it was not extravagantly provided; nor was it extravagantly demanded. Those in the industry  feel that the impact of that failure to follow sterling down is still being experienced in the industry and that similar assistance should be forthcoming. There are growers who are suffering hardship by comparison with the rest of the industry because of their level of indebtedness, the size of their farms, drought, below average CCS. content or some other factor related to business activities which is preventing them from operating as an efficient unit. I mention those things because these were restrained speeches by the presidential officers of the Cane-Growers Council. They were made without undue complaint. The speakers put the position fairly before the Minister and the Australian people, as I am attempting to do tonight. 1 do not propose to speak further on this Bill. We welcome the renegotiation of the Agreement between Queensland, New South Wales and the Commonwealth for the maintenance of the domestic price for sugar and for the increase in the sugar rebate. We feel that this industry is making a tremendous contribution but we are concerned about its future in the light of the advent of the European Economic Community. I think we can do something to try to persuade the community to accept a longer phasing out period. Following discussions I had overseas I propose to put in a certain quarter a proposal as to how this phasing out period might be extended. 
For the reasons I have mentioned the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. We commend it to honourable senators from all States. We welcome their acceptance of the principles embodied in it. It is a repetition of principles which are now traditional in the sugar industry in its relationship to the Commonwealth. We look forward to the day when an expanded sugar industry and a more assured international market can provide a level of prosperity in the industry that may gradually result in the diminution of the artificial price and thus provide sugar at a cheaper price while preserving the economics of the Australian sugar industry. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill and commending it to honourable senators. 
1 draw attention to a slight drafting difficulty. 1 am not quite sure that paragraph (2) can be left out on the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy.  Paragraph (2) reads: 
In relation to the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees, ihe Standing Committee System be varied as follows - 
My understanding of what is proposed is to delete the words after 'Senate'. If we did that the matter would not How in any sense at all. We would have to take out the words ., relation to the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees' and insert the words 'The Standing Committee system be varied as follows'. 
You would have to put in the words 'the Senate resolves'. 
Do 1 lake it that paragraph (2) (e) will be deleted in terms of  Senator Murphy's  amendment? 
 I am not sure of what  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has in mind in the terms in which clause (e) has been drafted. Clause (e) reads: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, matters referred to Standing Committees should relate to subjects which can bc dealt with expeditiously. 
The Democratic Labor Party has a point of view on this. 
 The point is that it may not be dealt with at all. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Democratic Labor Party lias no objection to the proposed amendment. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) (10.14)  -  We are about to take my motion, which is on the business paper, paragraph by paragraph. When we come to  Senator Little's  proposed amendment, we will substitute that and examine it. As we go through the paragraphs progressively we will deal with the amendments proposed by  Senator Murphy.  I hope that at the end of the discussion we will carry on the voices a composite resolution. 
The attitude of the Democratic Labor Party has been made quite clear and it will vote against the additional committee and vote forthe 2 committees. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator Murphy's)  be agreedto. 
I raised this matter earlier, but it was thought more appropriate that I raise it at this stage. Firstly I wondered why  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's motion was expressed in terms which meant that the committees should have referred to them subjects which can be dealt with expeditiously. Does that mean subjects that come within a limited range of examination or which can be dealt with by a committee which has not before it already a great number of matters for investigation? Precisely what is meant by 'expeditiously'? If it is the first, it is in consonance with the altitude of the Democratic Labor Party that standing committees are not the appropriate bodies for references of a major character which will require intensive investigation, involving the examination of many witnesses over a lengthy period of lime. Our attitude is well known. It has been staled and re-stated. For that reason, in view of the interpretation placed upon those words by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, I would be disposed, and the Democratic Labor Party would be disposed to support the continued inclusion of this proposition in the resolution if it is meant that the types of subjects for reference should be within the limited scope so that they may be capable of ready examination and of rather rapid report. I should be pleased if  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson would clarify that for me. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the announcement yesterday of the intention of the Government led by the new Prime Minister to review and raise pension rates - a matter which was the subject of a resolution in the Senate on 16th February 1971 when we recommended that course of action to the 
Government - I ask the Minister whether he will request the Government to give similar consideration to the resolution moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party on the occasion of the presentation of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution which stated:   . . and refers it to the Government for immediate consideration and urgent action in view of the recommendations of the Committee that there should be a national approach to the matter. 
We ask for a similar adoption and consideration by the Government of this Senate resolution. 
I cannot readily see the analogy which the honourable senator has drawn between the Prime Minister's statement last night about the social service problem and the recommendation of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. To the extent that the honourable senator has put the question I shall see what information I can obtain. 
In view of a motion which I hope to move a little later today, I hope that we can bring question time to a conclusion reasonably soon. 
The Democratic Labor Party does not oppose  Senator Murphy's  amendment. I take this opportunity to indicate again the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party to the fixing of salaries by statute where formerly they were fixed by regulation or by ministerial order. In general terms, the principle of fixation by parliament is a good one, but we object to the casual approach to the fixation of salaries that, as a Bill into which this principle could be injected is introduced, it is introduced while the host of other offices which do not come before the parliament remain not dealt with. 
Yes.I was under the impression, when the Bill was debated on a previous occasion, that the Ministry gave some indication that similar types of offices would be the subject of a compendious review so that one embracing statute might be presented and so that all offices considered appropriate for this type of salary determination might be dealt with and subsequently reviewed periodically. For that reason I ask whether, if my recollection is correct, any progress has been made in this direction.If no progress has been made, I, am not in favour of prejudicing, if it is a prejudice, certain offices of the Government by requiring that their salaries come under close parliamentary scrutiny while other offices do not have the disability of that type of inspection. 
We will get around to doing them only when a Bill appropriate to the office comes before the Senate. I want to see all these offices reviewed. That was the idea behind a compendious statute. 
Yes. I am not opposing the amendment. I take the opportunity to ask the Minister what progress, if any, has been made in relationto the projection of the general principle to all offices of this character covered by many statutes. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (4.12) - A general review of this matter has been going on. I cannot give the honourable senator any more information at this point of time. I can also assure him that I will make certain that the points he raised today will be communicated to the Minister concerned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment agreed to. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (4.13) - In relation to clause 2, which reads: 
(1.) Subject to this section, this Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent. (2.) The amendments of the Principal Act effected by section 16 of this Act apply in relation to - 
a licence granted for a period commencing after the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent; and 
the renewal of licence where the licence or the last preceding renewal of the licence, as the case may beexpires on or after that day. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (1.), insert the following subclause: "(1a.) The amendments of the Principal Act effected by sections 4a and 6a, and by sub-section (2.) of section 8, of this Act shall take effect on the twenty-eighth day after this Act receives the Royal Assent.". 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
Third Residing 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin) read a third time. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill and endorses the principles embodied in the proposed legislation. It will support the amendment to be moved by  Senator Willesee  on behalf of the Opposition. In relation to the latter I comment again that piecemeal dealing with this principle is regrettable. I reiterate the hope that the whole matter will come under total scrutiny from the Senate. I ask the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  to answer one or two questions about the new terms of capitalisation of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. As I understand the situation, the Commission will be capitalised at $35m. Of that, $ 17.5m will come from the conversion of existing Treasury advances. That will be convened to capital investment by the Australian Government in the Commission. A portion of the additional $ 1 7.5m will be provided from the undistributed profits of the Commission. I ask the Minister: What is the principle behind the method of allocation of the capital contributions and why should the revenue be called on to provide this amount when, after the contribution in capital from the undistributed profits is made, there is still a very substantial residue of profit in the accounts of the Commission? That is how I read the Minister's second reading speech. I think I have assessed it correctly. It would appear to me that, if substantial profits are withheld and if it is decided to put the Commission on a new basis, in large measure those profits should be called upon to provide the bulk of the capitalisation. The revenue should be called on only in the last  resort or  at least not to the extent of 50 per cent as seems to be contemplated by the legislation. The Minister, in her second reading speech, said: 
There is provision in the Bill that the PostmasterGeneral, with concurrence of the Treasurer, may direct the Commission to transfer further amounts to the capital account from retained profits. 
I wonder why that is not being done to a greater degree at this time if the power is there to do it in future. It could well be that further capitalisation will be provided from the Treasury from time to time. I think that was also mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech. I think the principle of putting the Commission on the same basis as similar corporations is a salutary one. Strange as it may seem, independent corporations are not subjected to the parliamentary scrutiny to which ordinary departments can be subjected. I know that it is not considered the province of the Parliament to sit in judgment upon or to scrutinise the day to day operations of public corporations. It could well be that corporations of this and other characters could find themselves under the new arc light of scrutiny with the emergence of standing committees of this chamber. 
In Great Britain there is a select committee or a standing committee that deals particularly with public corporations. We have no such committee here or in contemplation, but no doubt we have an appropriate committee which could receive references in relation to public corporations and perhaps pertinent to the area of their operation if not to (he type of their structure. I have little doubt that from time to time public corporations will come under the scrutiny of a standing committee of the Senate. It is not improbable that, if a committee had been available for a referral previously, the capital reconstruction which comes in this year 1971 might well have been considered and embarked upon years earlier as the position which is now before us was seen to develop and as heavy accumulation of profits was evident in the accounts of the Commission. I would like the Minister to answer my queries. We support the Bill and we will support the amendment to be moved by  Senator Willesee. 
 I think I should intervene at this stage to deal with the question of membership of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. This is a most important backbench committee and it is to be regretted thatall significant parties in this chamber are not represented on it. I was a member of the Committee years ago and whenI had occasion to break my political association I immediately resigned from the Committee because, of course, I was there as the nominee of one party. The members of the Committee are there as nominees of particular parties. 
The Regulations and Ordinances Committee performs most significant and valuable work. As  Senator Cavanagh  implied by interjection, it is essentially a backbench committee which should not accommodate ministerial members. That is all the more reason why it may be condign to expand the membership of the Committee in numbers so that all parties and perhaps the independent senators could find representation on it. In the new Senate after 30th June we shall have 3 independent senators instead of one as at present, and the Australian Democratic Labor Party will have an additional senator, making in all 8 senators who will have no opportunity to serve on the Regulations and Ordinances Committee because it is constituted of Government and Opposition nominees. 
The Senate could well consider this situation. Quite apart from members of the Democratic Labor Party there is an important role to be played in the Senate at the will of the electors by the independent senators who are to join us. I do not think they should be denied an opportunity to participate fully in the work of the Senate through its committees, and particularly the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. 
No other party is involved to the same extent as our Party. We have been more than generous in the provision of the services of our members for committee work. As  Senator Murphy  knows, we have attempted furiously to be associated with the Standing Orders Committee. I understand that objection to our membership has been raised among the Opposition members. We fail to serve on that Committee not because of our disposition; we do not serve on it because we have not been permitted to do so by the Opposition. If Senate committees are to function effectively they must be as representative as possible of the composition of the Senate.I am making a plea not merely for the DLP but also for the independent senators who in increased numbers are to grace our chamber. If the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is effectively to be manned by backbenchers, the membership should be extended to embrace as far as possible all elements now comprising the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
ft is not my intention to attempt to hold the attention of the Senate for very long, but I have now an opportunity to draw the attention of honourable senators to a course of action that has recently been taken by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. It is of some significance that it should be put before the Senate because this course of action originated in this chamber. Honourable senators will recall that the DLP moved in the Senate for the appointment of a commission of inquiry into the rural industries. The motion was debated on a number of occasions and when it finally came to .a vote was defeated. In order to indicate that that motion was not merely an empty gesture by the Democratic Labor Party but was an expression of real concern and an attempt to help the rural sector 1 indicate to the Senate now the course of action we have subsequently pursued. 
The relevance of that course to the Bill before the Senate is that this Bill highlights the recurring chronic and endemic situations in the rural industries. These continuing and recurring crises require urgent attention and all sorts of artificial props. Therefore they require recourse to the national Parliament for the provision of money from the revenue to support this or that area. All these things are absolutely necessary. The tragedy is that they are now inescapably associated with the conduct of the whole of the rural industries of Australia. For how long  thi  position can continue, for how long it can be permitted to go on in the interests of the nation and of those people who have committed their own lives and the lives of their families to the rural industry involves a big note of interrogation. That is why our Party has always said that unless the whole structure of the rural economy is closely examined and is given a new look in the light of our approach to the new world, we will continue to have these crises and the Parliament will continually be asked to try to retrieve a desperate situation and to succour the dying rural industries. If it is not this one today, it will be another one tomorrow. 
In those circumstances the attitude of the DLP has been that the whole rural sector must be closely examined by a commission properly constituted for that purpose. lt must be adequately structured and supplied with personnel, with competent evidence coming before it from the whole range of disciplines which will assist to discover the remedies that must be applied once the problems are established. That was the purpose of our Party in presenting our proposition for the establishment of a commission of inquiry into the rural industries. As I have said, it was not merely an empty political gesture. It was the beginning of a very definite and determined effort to embark upon a course of action. As a further step in that course of action the Democratic Labor Party has now written to all the rural industries, to all the bodies and organisations in the rural sector which are concerned with one or another of the rural industries or some aspect of their operations. It is proposing also to write over the whole field of agricultural and rural disciplines within the universities to appropriate bodies, agricultural economists and statisticians and to all those people who may bo able to indicate the assistance they can give in such an inquiry. I take the liberty of reading for the benefit of honourable senators a document that has been sent out by us. It has been widely distributed but not yet as widely distributed as it will be. 
Yes. It has been sent to 200 to 250 addressees representing the major rural industries and bodies and organisations associated with some aspect of those industries - processing, marketing, growing, activities of that nature. 
Offhand I could not say exactly. It would have been sent to the Australian Wheat Board, to bodies associated with wheat production and activities of that nature, lt is only the beginning of the list of people to whom it will be sent. It represents an approach. When the objective of the Democratic Labor Party was presented in this chamber the Australian Country Party responded by proposing an amendment to our proposition to the effect that there should be industry submissions. We considered that that was inappropriate at- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  -  Senator Byrne,  you had better return to the provisions of the Bill. 
I appreciate,  Mr Deputy President,  that I am perhaps painting a rather broad canvas, but the wheat industry is one of the great examples of the basic and fundamental difficulties besetting the rural economy. I am indicating that our plans are for total restructuring of the economy. I am dealing only briefly tonight with our plans as they ate relevant to the position of the wheat industry and to the obvious elimination of this recurring type of procedure in the national Parliament by which we must in some form or another come to the rescue of an ailing and faltering industry. 
But it all takes up the time of the Parliament. I am not saying that this Bill represents a great concession to the wheat industry. I am saying only that it highlights the recurring difficulties that are becoming endemic. They are becoming deeper and more serious and obviously all we are doing from time to time is trying to plug holes, to fill in the gaps in the ailing industries that require a complete re-look, a re-examination in the light of the new world in which those industries are required to operate. I am sure,  Sir, that  in the circumstances I will earn your solicitude by my advocacy as to the relevance of my submission. I therefore would indicate the broad lines along which we have approached the rural sector. 
We have suggested that there should be constituted an expert commission of inquiry into the whole structure of the rural economy. That commission would examine the importance of the rural economy, its role and its function in the Australian economy. Honourable senators will be aware that we presented this proposition during the recent Senate election campaign, particularly in Victoria and Queensland where we gained very big numbers of votes. We regard that result as being in no small measure due to the response of the rural area in those States to our plans, to our positive approach to the problems which face the rural industries. We believe that the wheat industry in Victoria and Queensland played a conspicuous part in that result. 
The proposed rural commission of inquiry would necessarily face an immense task because of all the elements which go to constitute the rural economy and on which its welfare, viability and national value depend. It would have to be an inquiry which would assist to charter the course of our rural economy at least into the year 2000. The commission would have to be prepared to examine the role of every rural industry, present and future. It would have to examine the complex economic, social and personal implications of any restructuring of the rural sector. It would have to accept the fact of a rapidly changing national economy in its relation to a changing world economy and new and changing patterns of consumer demand throughout the world, particularly in the developing countries. Of course, they do not exhaust the appropriate matters for inquiry. Therefore it will be obvious to honourable senators, as the document we have prepared for distribution states, that an appropriate investigation will be entrusted only to a body which in personnel, time, technical knowledge and administrative assistance  is  equipped to discharge this immense task. 
 1 would be reluctant to suggest the actual personnel. 
 That would be a matter for very earnest consideration. Obviously it would have to embrace in a fairly wide spectrum all those areas of life associated with the rural economy. I have in mind the technical areas of production and marketing. Without indicating who might constitute the personnel I now proceed to indicate the matters which we think should come within the scope of the inquiry, and in effect that might help to indicate the personnel who would be needed to conduct the examination. The subjects suggested by the Democratic Labor Party for examination by the proposed commission of inquiry are as follows: 
Expected export demand for Australian rural products, taking into account: 
the policies of the European Economic Community; 
the possibility of Australian associate membership of EEC; 
reciprocal trading agreements on the basis of securing constant markets for rural production by tariff concessions to consumer countries exporting secondary products to Australia, Japan in particular; 
I do not think that  Senator Kennelly  has agreed with that proposition in the past. 
The list continues: 
the possibility of a South East Asian Community; 
Rural producers' costs, taking into account: 
the Australian tariff; 
government policies and other factors tending to raise costs in Australia; 
incidence of railway freights on rural producers in comparison with urban charges; 
road transport; 
the wage structure of the rural economy; 
Finance. Financial Structure required to support necessary changes and the Service and Finance for such purpose. 
Policy, taking into account: 
whether there is a case for permanent or temporary subsidies from the urban to the rural sector; 
whether any aggregation or re-organisation of present rural holdings is necessary, and if so. whether it should be achieved by independent action by rural producers, or through government-assisted schemes; 
expected future rural labour force required; 
rural education including re-training for any fanners facing displacement; 
establishment of decentralised industrial towns which would offer employment within that region. 
I do not intend to presume any further on the indulgence of the Senate. 1 felt that I owed it to the Senate to remind it of the fact that the Democratic Labor Party sought on 3 occasions to debate this matter and when the Senate finally considered it the Senate did not feel disposed to support the proposition. 1 only wanted to indicate to the Senate that the Democratic Labor Party was at that time extremely serious in putting forward this proposition. In fact, it has pursued the matter since. My Party has been in touch with many of the people, organisations and functionaries in rural industry. I should point out that it has already received many letters of commendation and offers of support. As I have said before, this exercise is only in its early stages. However, the Democratic Labor Party, fortified by the widespread and growing belief that such an inquiry is necessary hopes that it will be able to persuade the Government that it should consider this proposition and embark upon the constitution of an appropriate body of inquiry. 
The Bill before the Senate tonight indicates the type of chronic situation in which the national parliament is continually having to rush to the aid of rural industries. 
1 did not say that this was recurring legislation; I said that this was a recurring type of situation. We know that it is occurring throughout many of our rural industries. I want to point out to  Senator Prowse  that I do not disclaim for one moment the necessity for this legislation. In fact, the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. However, it has grave doubts as to whether this legislation will in any sense solve the problem which exists in the industry. The Democratic Labor Party believes that what is necessary is an examination of the problem in depth and a discovery of the solutions to it in depth also. This can only come about as a result of an appropriate investigation by a body which is properly equipped to discover both the problem and the solution. With those words and, more particularly, having put into the record the policy of the Democratic Labor Party and an indication of the sincerity with which it has pursued this proposal, I conclude my remarks. My Party supports the Bill. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the motion. I have been informed by  Senator Murphy  that it is suggested that paragraph (2)  in the motion might be altered in some minor particular which might give it a slightly different orientation. Possibly  Senator Davidson  is aware of the proposal. It would meet with the approval of my Party. We support the motion in its present form but, if the amendment is forthcoming, we will support the motion in its amended form. 
I was a member of the Senate Select 
Committee on Water Pollution and was aware of the deliberations and recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution. When the report of the Water Pollution Committee came before this chamber it dealt with a very peculiar situation. The States had been activated very considerably to operate in this field of the control of pollution of the environment. There was a great deal of activity in State regulation and in State legislation. The proposal of the Water Pollution Committee was that the Commonwealth should move quickly so that it might capture the activity and enthusiasm of the States and, contributing ils own activity and enthusiasm by the passage of parallel legislation, produce a national code and a national machine to control the pollution of the environment both in the States and in Commonwealth territories. One of the elements implicit in the recommendations of the Water Pollution Committee was the note of urgency. 
When that report was presented lo this chamber an amendment was moved by the Party to which t belong to the motion that the report be received. That amendment was to the effect that the motion to be conveyed to the Government be treated as a matter of urgency and that the Government should act urgently on the contents and recommendations of the report. 1 understand that that was a somewhat rare procedure. Perhaps it had not been adopted before. Nevertheless it was an indication of me seriousness with which the Senate regarded the whole matter and of ('le urgency which it thought should accompany consideration of the report. To my knowledge there has been to this stage no activity by the Commonwealth Government. Within ils own territories of which J am aware, or elsewhere, there has been no attempt by administrative action, by regulation or certainly by legislation to operate in terms of the report. I am not altogether familiar with whether the Government has been in touch with the States in an attempt lo arrive al that co-ordinated position of the Commonwealth and State activity which the report so strongly commended. That being the case, it unfortunately does appear necessary that there should be constituted some on-going body which would have under continuous scrutiny the steps that are necessary from time to lime to implement a programme of environmental control and protection. 
In other words, the motion now before the Senate would be much more effective if the Commonwealth had moved or had given an indication of moving and the proposed on-going body, therefore, would have under its scrutiny something that was already operating. To the extent to which that is not the case, this motion contains some criticism by implication of the Government for the fact that it has not moved in terms of either of the reports - at least to my knowledge and perhaps to the knowledge of other honourable senators. Nevertheless if, as is suggested by the motion, this matter is referred to the Standing Committee, the Committee then can do what  Senator Davidson  has suggested. Without attempting to cover a very broad canvas in one or two sweeps of the brush, it can attempt to pick out the steps that can be taken, that should be taken and that most urgently are required to be taken, and commend those to the Government so that at least step by step a programme of co-operative federalism in the concept of control of the environment may be carried into operation. 
For example, in terms of the Water Pollution Committee's report, I can imagine that the Standing Committee might first of all look at the extent to which the Commonwealth Government has moved to implement within its own territories any of the recommendations in the report. That is a limited section of reference which might well occupy the attention of a standing committee if it had such a reference as this before it. lt might then pose another question: What approach has been made by the Commonwealth to the States to try to co-ordinate the legislative and administrative actions of both? That could be another limited area, but nevertheless an area of an urgent character, which could produce a definite and effective answer. That is the kind of operation that  Senator Davidson  has in mind - not that there should be, as it were, a permanent select committee looking at this question  of  environmental control but a committee which could investigate from time to time one step or another which might be taken, which has not been taken and which should be taken to implement finally a total programme  of  control and protection  of  the environment. 
As I listened to  Senator Davidson's  speech, it seemed to me that that is the kind of concept that he has in mind. If it is, it is a concept with which I would agree completely. I have expressed before my deep concern that standing committees which have before them major references of tremendous breadth and depth might be so delayed in their investigations and in the presentation of their report and so interrupted in consideration of any matter that the question under review loses all significance with the passage of time. Therefore, to operate such a reference as this within the terms of  Senator Davidson's  suggestion would appear to me to he the most effective manner in which a standing committee with such a reference, or for that matter any reference, might operate. 1 hope that the motion which was carried so firmly by the Senate on the presentation of the Water Pollution Committee's report will receive the urgent attention of the Government as we asked. Perhaps it would be proper if at question .; n. r - I may well do it within the next few days - a question were posed to the appropriate Minister asking whether the Government has acted in terms of that motion of the Senate and, if so, what has been done. If this reference is made to the Standing Committee it would be not inappropriate for the Committee, as constituted with this reference, to ask the Government what has been done in terms of the reports, more particularly in terms of the commendation contained in the reports that the Government take urgent action. 
In this field of environmental control we find now that the States are far ahead of the Commonwealth. They are more interested, they are more active, they are achieving results. If we are to have environmental control on a national basis it is vital that, so far as possible, legislation shall be uniform and co-ordinated. Once the State legislative action falls into State patterns it will be very difficult, if not impossible, to disturb them. This is the time when the Commonwealth should be most active in co-operation with the Stales which are at the peak of their activities. If this moment is lost it will be difficult, if not impossible, to recapture it. I would hope that a committee of this nature with this reference might well press the Govern ment, not on a political basis but on the basis of the operation of the Parliament, the protection of the nation and for the most effective implementation of a programme of environmental control, for early and urgent action to co-ordinate the activities of the States with those of the Commonwealth in devising a programme of environmental control as recommended by the reports of the select committees to which reference has been made. I commend this motion to the Senate and firmly support it, either in its present form or in the amended form as suggested by  Senator Murphy  which I think would be accepted by  Senator Davidson  and other honourable senators. 
I rise merely to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports these Bills ;ind welcomes the assistance which is to be given to this segment of Australia's rural industries, lt is most important in the developing world situation in relation to the marketing of primary products that Australia's primary industries shall be as efficient as possible and shall produce a product which is appropriate to the market which is to be supplied, at a price which is competitive on that market. 
I was interested in the comment which was made by  Senator Drury  on the production of dried fruits in Turkey. As I was in thai country recently I know that this is a matter which is of considerable interest to Turkey because of the emergence of the European Economic Community into the field of demand. Dried fruits are not produced in the countries which are strictly within the European Economic Community, but they are produced in countries which are associate members of the Community. Turkey is one of these countries. There are many countries on the African Continent - what we call black African countries - which are also associate members of the EEC. It is possible that Turkey and these other countries will be able lo supply dried fruits in sufficient quantities to meet the demand of the European Economic Community. If that is so, a very grave threat is posed to Australia's production and export of this commodity. Such a threat can be met only by the production of a quality product, attractively packaged and competitively priced in what looks like becoming a very severely constricted market. These things can be achieved only by the proper direction of finance towards the necessary research. 
I shall be having something to say about the more technical aspects of the Bills at the Committee stage. 1 merely wanted to indicate to the Senate at this stage that the Democratic Labor Party welcomes these Bills. This legislation highlights a further fact, namely, that most of Australia's primary industries are increasingly getting into difficulties. These difficulties arc arising from one cause or another. The Democratic Labor Party still persists in ils belief that it will be necessary to examine the role of each industry in the rural segment in order to determine what assistance - financial and technological - is required to enable it to discharge its proper and newly determined role in the Australian economy and the world economy in relation to the consumption of rural products. Having said those things, 1 indicate again to the Senate that the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bills and welcomes their provisions. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party opposes the amendment and supports the Bill as presented for the reasons which have been adduced by  Senator Withers.  It is common for matters of the kind under notice to be included in Bills and Acts of this character. I have before me a list of cognate Acts in which the evidentiary situation of the averment is relied upon. For example, there is the Chicken Meat Levy Collection Act, the Honey Levy Collection Act, the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Collection Act, the Poultry Industry Levy Collection Act, the Butter Fat Levy Act, the Canning Fruit Charge Administration Act and the Dried Vine Fruits Contributory Charges Act. They indicate that this is a common practice. 
The fact that it is in other Acts of a cognate nature does not necessarily justify its being in this or any other Act. Nevertheless, obviously there is a good reason why it should appear in a statute of this nature as has been suggested by  Senator Withers.  One can imagine, for example, that it might be necessary for a person to hold a permit of some kind from a local authority. If the prosecution had to establish that a person did not hold such a permit or licence or entitlement, it would have to prove that in relation to every local authority in Australia whereas it lies particularly within the competence of the defendant to adduce evidence from his own knowledge, within his own possession, that he holds such permit or licence or entitlement. As  Senator Withers  said, that would be to his financial advantage, would make for easy proof or disproof and is a very convenient method of administration. This is the most minor type of averment. The clause does not say that the averment shall be conclusive evidence or anything of that nature, lt merely says that it shall be evidence which is, perhaps, an averment at the most minimal level. As I have said, we oppose the amendment and support the Bill. 
-In a sense the provision allowing for the commencement of a prosecution at any lime within 5 years after the commission of an offence is necessary for the administration of legislation of this nature. We must concede that a heavy administrative responsibility devolves upon those who are required to provide the inspectorial services for the great number of places to be inspected in a necessarily limited time. Therefore a very grave problem could arise if inspectors make their inspections and discover that they are out of the legal time in which to institute proceedings. This is the difficulty which faces the Department of Primary Industry, which has a limited staff, a large area of inspectorial responsibility and a large number of units to be inspected. We must also concede the right of the persons concerned. They should not remain legally vulnerable for an undue period merely because of the limited administrative abilities of the inspectorial and prosecuting departments,  lt  is between those two positions that a way must be found. 
The proposition presented by the amendment seems to me to mean that unless the staff were expanded greatly, any of the inspectorial provisions of the statute would be negatived completely and rendered totally nugatory because, if proceedings can be brought only within 12 months after the offence is committed and if inspectors do not have sufficient time to inspect units in 12 months, the person who is in deeply would escape completely free and without the possibility of a penalty being imposed upon him. That would nullify absolutely all the inspectorial provisions and the provisions requiring the audit of levies to be paid. That is one side of the argument. Can we discover an intermediate period which, on the one hand, would reasonably satisfy the just entitlements of the persons who will be mulcted wilh the levy and, on the other, the reasonable administrative responsibilities of the department concerned? For those reasons 1 suggest that the Government and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  might be good enough to look at this provision again. 
I think - and it is the opinion of my Party - that a term of 5 years is altogether too long to have a person in a condition of legal vulnerability and required to keep his records for that length of time, in case an inspector calls, so that he can justify the deduction of the levy. I would ask the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  even at this stage to have another look at the provision to consult with the departmental officers and to obtain their advice bearing in mind the periodic inspection of units, the availability of staff without any undue increase in staff and the regularity of inspection they could say what they think might be the minimum period to which they can reduce the term of legal vulnerability, whether it be from 5 years, to 4, 3 or 2 years. I ask the Minister to be good enough to consult with his advisers to see whether they might look further al this provision. My Party, recognising the difficulties of the Department and acknowledging the entitlements of the people concerned, might be prepared to accept such a compromise term based on a fair assessment of the rights and responsibilities of the 2 parties concerned. I commend that proposition to the Minister who might be good enough to give his advice to the Senate at this stage and, if necessary, to defer further the consideration of the Bill to enable my suggestion to be carried out. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. For some time the Senate has been concerned with the method of fixing and adjusting the salaries of certain officers of public instrumentalities. The view has been expressed in this chamber that, as an alternative to the arbitrary and sporadic method at present being followed, which depends on a Bill amending the statutes governing the instrumentalities coming before the Parliament, a composite Bill to determine  such salaries should be introduced. 1 have reason to believe that, whilst the Government's disposition is to follow such a course of action, there are numerous technical problems in doing so. Will the Minister, after the coming short recess, present a brief paper or make a statement on the matter and the difficulties being encountered in meeting the views expressed in the Senate as to the course of action ;o be taken? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is a fact that there is before the Senate at the present time a Salaries Bill which contains a device in the form of a schedule and which is calculated to use a pedestrian Bill to meet a situation. 1 would not reflect upon it now because it is on the business paper and the Leader of the Opposition has the right to resume the debate on it. It is true that over the last 2 or 3 years the Senate has put its mind to the vexing question of whether a certain thing should be 'as the Parliament determines' or should be done by the Executive or by way of something that is subject to disallowance, ft is equally true that the previous AttorneyGeneral, consequent upon views expressed in the Senate and decisions taken by 'the Senate, examined the matter. Who am I ro look into a crystal ball? lt may be that as a consequence of the introduction of the Salaries Bill - which I gather will not come up for debate today because we are not ready to deal with it - the matter will be posed in debate. T may then get an opportunity and the vehicle to comment on the overall question. It is not a cut and dried issue. For a variety of reasons alternative action may be desirable. I do not wish to pre-empt what I will have to say. If I do not use the vehicle of the Salaries Bill to comment, I will certainly make a subsequent statement as suggested by  Senator Byrne. 
As a member of the Democratic Labor Party, 1 express our appreciation to all honourable senators who have participated in the debate for their complimentary and kindly references to the maiden speech delivered by my colleague,  Senator Kane.  I add my personal congratulations to him. He selected a unique vehicle for his maiden speech - a subject of very great urgency and of great importance. He discussed it with a depth and penetration that did him considerable credit. I think that the Senate can look forward to many similar contributions of such a thoughtful character from the honourable senator. 
The urgency motion, which has received the attention of a number of honourable senators, highlights the situation that is now developing in Australia as a result of the economic inflation and the cost of living inflation that are operating in the community. The approach of the Democratic Labor Party to this matter is to consider firstly the cause of the situation and, at the same time, to deal with the immediate consequences. This motion is not dealing with the cause because that is not germane to the motion. It is dealing with the relief of those who are suffering the immediate consequences in a very grievous way. This is the second motion of a similar character that has been moved recently by the DLP as a matter of urgency. The first dealt with social service payments. Some weeks ago we moved, as a matter of urgency, that there should be an immediate review of social service entitlements in view of the inflationary situation. Notice of this motion was given in December. As soon as the Parliament met in February the motion was duly' moved. It was supported by the Opposition and was carried. Some time after that the Government did increase the rate of pensions by a not very great amount, but nevertheless in some way it eased the desperate position of these people. We moved that motton to give immediate relief to these people and also to draw the attention of the Government to the grievous need of this body of people. 
The present motion has a similar purpose, although, if it is carried, we perhaps cannot hope for similar immediate action. It deals with another group, and that is not those who are in receipt of social service entitlements but those who are trying to sustain themselves from the benefits of their thrift over the years or from their participation in superannuation schemes. This motion is the second of a trilogy of similar motions. We would hope that the moving of this motion would have the same effect as we think our earlier motion did have on the thinking of the Government. Al the moment the Government is moving into its annual pre-Budget examination of the economy. No doubt it is devising ways and means by which revenue can be raised and expended to the best advantage. We hope that this motion will bring, with a sense of urgency, to the notice of the Government, in the course of its pre-Budget discussions, the importance which the Senate attaches to the desperate plight of these people so that that will be taken into budgetary consideration with a view to providing relief. 
Therefore, on this occasion we are ' dealing with the second of the trilogy of motions relating to particular segments of the community. This deals with those on superannuation or those, who by their own investment during their working lives, their thrift and their savings, have in some way been able to sustain themselves. I indicate to the Senate now that the third of the trilogy of motions that we shall move as matters of urgency - of which we perhaps might give notice today - deals with child endowment. On the resumption of the Senate on the Wednesday of the week after next we shall move that the Senate adjourn to discuss this as a matter of urgency. That is a third area of grievous and immediate need. Again we hope that, by bringing this area of need to the attention of the Government at this time, the Government will be persuaded to take this into the forefront of ils Budget considerations and attempt to provide some relief. We feel that this is the function of the Senate. Therefore, I am appealing to all honourable senators to support this motion, as I would hope that the similar motion to be moved as a matter of urgency in a fortnight would be similarly supported, and, as happened with our motion in relation to pensions, I would hope that the Government might be persuaded to give immediate relief and centainly to give relief in the forthcoming Budget. 
The people who have invested in superannuation schemes or who have accumulated savings and committed them to investments are in a particularly desperate position. Let us consider for a moment the position of both groups. Those who have contributed to superannuation schemes during their working lives have participated in savings schemes from which they draw annuities at one level or another. Let us not think that those people who have retired from active life are still not participating in a very real way in the economic . life of the community. They are. They are participating because their savings, which are absorbed in their superannuation schemes, are invested and committed by those superannuation funds into the public sector of investment, such as Commonwealth loans. The life work of these people is still operating at a level in the community. Although they are still participating they are not able to be assisted in any way from the national revenue. Their position is becoming increasingly difficult. We think that the Government must give immediate consideration to some form of relief. 
Those who are relying on their personal savings find themselves in the same situation. They are people of industrious habits, thrift and personal discipline. So often during their lives they have deprived themselves of many amenities which they could very well have enjoyed and in which they could have indulged their tastes. They chose not to do it from a sense of pride and self reliance in which they would provide for their own future out of their savings. But they have found that for reasons completely beyond their control their life savings are dissipated in terms of value. These people are totally defenceless. Members of trade unions who find the value of their wages eroded have their trade union organisations which can take employers to the court and have adjustments made in wages in accordance with the rise in the level of prices. But the people for whom this motion is framed are totally defenceless. They are innocent victims of a situation which they cannot possibly control. If we do not move to help these people their defencelessness will remain and will aggravate their level of living. 
For those reasons I appeal to honourable senators to vote unanimously for this motion or at least vote for it in the numbers they can.  Senator Murphy  has indicated that we are going to receive support from this side of the chamber. I hope some Government senators may be persuaded to support the motion also. If that happens the Government will realise that urgent and deep concern is felt in this chamber for the conditions of these people. Such a vote will obviously persuade the Government to bring these matters to the forefront of its consideration in the fiscal and budgetary discussions which are to take place within the next few weeks. 
I turn now for one or two moments to the second area of the motion which deals with the position of superannuated Commonwealth public servants. Somewhere in the 1950s there was adjustment of the number of units in which superannuated Commonwealth public servants could participate. But in 1961 this was done by statute by a notional adjustment in this way: If a Commonwealth employee retired on 20 units of superannuation and the salary for the job on which he was engaged when he retired was subsequently raised, and the unit entitlement attached to that position went to 50 units, then notionally a man who was already out of the Public Service but who had held that position would receive his superannuation on the 50- unit basis. An adjustment was made in 1963 and 1967. But no adjustment has been made since then. 
The principle is a recognised statutory principle which has operated 3 times but, for one reason or another has  not operated  for the last 4 years. That is grossly unfair to these people because, after all, they can do nothing about the position. Their former employer - the Commonwealth - has a responsibility for the condition of the economy and they must look to it to try to rectify their situation. We plead with the Government for an immediate review of the present level of unit entitlement of superannuated Commonwealth public servants. A requirement should be written into the statute that there will be a regular, periodic review; it should not be left merely tothe annual budgetary considerations. Because we feel it is important that a vote be taken on this matter for the reasons I have indicated - that is, that the Government should be made aware of the feelings of the Senate on these situations at this time of pre-budgetary consideration - I shall move that the question be now put. 
Motion (by  Senator Byrne)  agreed to : 
That the  question  be now put. 
Original question put: 
That the  motion  (Senator Kane's)  be agreed to. 
As one who intimated that a way might be found through the difficulty created by the fact that originally the Bill was introduced with a limitation of 5 years from the date of the commission of the alleged offence and that  Senator Murphy  has suggested that the limitation imposed under the Crimes Act for offences of this nature under Commonwealth law should properly apply, I believe that the period of 3 years may be not inappropriate - not as a matter of compromise but as a matter of practical quittance from what are the real circumstances and difficulties surrounding the investigation and detection of offences of this nature. 
I am informed by the officers and the Minister that one of the difficulties is that of detection - not merely because of limitations of staff, although there are limitations of staff, but because unless we had an undue staff so that all offences could be established within a very short time after their commission it would represent an immense financial burden and administratively it possibly could not be justified financially. In those circumstances we have to try again to solve this problem of achieving a resolution between the rights of the individual and the communal rights of all those involved in the industry in which the individual participates. This is part of the constant conflict in which I find myself with  Senator Murphy  and other honourable senators. 
After all, as  Senator Young  has properly said, this is a levy imposed on participants in this industry for the benefit of other participants and the industry generally, and to the extent to which default is made by any individual participant the whole community in that industry must inevitably suffer. Therefore, it is a responsibility on those who have the administration of what is really a trust to ensure that each participant plays his individual part so that an undue, unjust and unfair burden shall not fall upon the balance of those involved in the industry. In order to ensure that this is done, there must be the necessary deterrent and the possibility, if there is a violation of the requirements of the law, of that deterrent being put into practical operation. 
If we were to prescribe immunity after a period of 12 months, which would be the effect of  Senator Murphy's  proposition, and if we were not prepared to increase administrative staff enormously to enable all detections to be made within 12 months, we would be guaranteeing immunity after 12 months to all those who chose to default in relation to the collection of this levy. I believe that that would be a very unsafe and very unwise thing to project into the industry and that it could result very quickly in a complete programme of defiance by those who elected to move outside the requirements of the law. This could disturb the whole concept of the organisation of the growers within the industry. I think that would be extremely regrettable. 

 Senator Murphy makes the point , it is a valid one , that the general Commonwealth law prescribes a period of 12 months in relation to the commission of offences of this nature. Of course, that law is not the law of the Medes and the Persians.  Senator Murphy  says that it has been the law for a long time. But we have amended many laws that have been the law for a long time. Particularly at the instance of  Senator Murphy,  we have amended laws that have stood for very many years in relation to the fixing of the salaries of officers and the prescription of allowances by regulation.  Senator Murphy,  to his credit, has been in the forefront, according to his views, in insisting that these matters be looked at and that amendment be introduced. 
The fact that a law has been in existence is no warrant for it remaining in perpetuity. From time to time governments - 1 presume that in respect of these commodity boards and the levies in relation to them this applies to governments of all political characters - have seen fit, for reasons of practical administration, to move outside the limitations imposed in the Crimes Act in relation to the general purview of simple offences, or those attracting monetary penalties, and have found that in the particular circumstances it has been wise, prudent and even necessary to provide for an indefinite period of time within which prosecutions can be launched. 
Actually, therefore, this Bill, in a sense, is a new circumscription or limitation of a power which formerly was taken in all legislation of this type. To that extent, honourable senators should welcome the fact that at least some prescription of time has been introduced. This chamber, however, has drawn attention to the fact that the prescription of 5 years as compared with the limitless time in other similar legislation is still, in the opinion of this chamber, too long. The Minister intimated that he would review the matter. He has done that in co-operation with the Minister in charge of the department concerned and his advisers. So, it is suggested, I presume not as a matter of mathematical compromise but as a matter of the shortest reasonable period that can be adopted consonant with the administrative requirements and limitations of the department, that 3 years is the appropriate period within which prosecutions can be launched. After all, there are many occasions on which offenders may be pursued during a period of 6 months or more after the commission of the offence is detected - not after it is committed, but after it comes to notice. That would be a very much longer period than 5 years. It might be 10, 15 or 20 years. There are many occasions on which that is the only time limitation imposed. This prescription of time is very much more severe than that. 
For those reasons, allowing for the fact that we do not like to see legal vulnerability unduly prolonged and levelled against any individual but consonant with recognition of the fact that, within the primary community of which he is part and from which he earns his living, the individual has duties to others participating in it, that there are practical difficulties and that this provision is an advance by the Commonwealth Government in restricting the formerly limitless time within which such prosecutions could be launched, and having in mind that it may be opportune at some stage to have a complete look at this type of proposition as it appears in statutes, I support the amendment moved by the Minister and commend its adoption to the Committee. 
 I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Social Environment the following matter: 
The content, form and presentation of the information section of telephone directories with a view to (a) an improved selection and dissection of postal, telephone and telegraphic material; and (b) a more modern and more functional layout to facilitate easier reference to the information desired. 
The motion which has just been carried by the Senate means that the normalperiod of debate on a motion of this character has been reduced from the customary 3 hours to the period limited by the closure of the debate at about 6 p.m. For that reason it is appropriate that, to enable the maximum number of speakers to address themselves to the debate within the available period, there should be some limitation of the customary time allowed for honourable senators to present their propositions. Therefore it is agreed that I, as mover of the motion, and the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood),  who will be leading for the Government should speak for 20 minutes each and that other speakers correspondingly would speak for shorter periods. 
I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 10.55 a.m., unless otherwise ordered. 
I do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely: 
The culpable neglect of the Federal Government in allowing child endowment rates, particularly those for three or more children, and maternity allowances, to deteriorate in real value to such an extent that the family obtains no great assistance from the receipt of such payments. 
The failure of the Federal Government to introduce a system of capitalisation of child endowment payments similar to that scheme which has operated successfully in New Zealand since 1959. 
The failure of the Federal Government to assist young married couples by updating the amount of assistance given under the Home Savings Grant scheme, the maximum amount of $500 not having been increased since first introduced in 1963, despite the fall in the value of money, the growth of inflation and the rise in building costs, since that year. 
Because of the circumscription of time, I propose to address myself primarily to that aspect of our motion which deals with child endowment. My colleague  Senator Little,  who will support this motion at a later stage, will address himself more particularly to the other aspects of the motion dealing with maternity allowances, home savings grants and the other matter that comes within the terms of the motion. This is the third urgency motion which has been moved by the Democratic Labour Party in the last few weeks. These have been a coordinated programme of presentation to the Senate for consideration of aspects of Government policy that we think require urgent and particular attention. The first motion dealt with the urgent need to review the level of socal service payments in relation to pensioners. The second motion dealt with the position of those in receipt of income from private superannuation schemes and those who receive their sole source of income from fixed investments. Both those motions were supported by the Opposition and were carried. 
This is the third of a trilogy of such motions, on this occasion dealing with child endowment and the other ancillary matters. We move these motions because this is the period in which the Government is considering what propositions will be embodied in the Budget. We feel that it is the appropriate and most effective way for our Party and for the Senate to register concern about these areas which we feel particularly require urgent and adequate Government attention. These areas have included social service payments and the position of people on fixed incomes from superannuation. We now include the position in respect of child endowment. At least it could be said for the first group whom we attempted to assist that following our motion the Government did move and that at least pensioners . are articulate in that they have organisations which can present their case. Pensioner organisations can wait on Ministers and, through their own organs in publicity, can present the case for social service recipients. Certain people are in a position to speak for the participants of private superannuation schemes and those on fixed incomes. Those people are associated with bodies which can speak on their behalf. 
Who speaks on behalf of the parents of large families which are vulnerable to the ebb and flow of the economic circumstances of this nation? Nobody speaks for them. By the nature of things they are not organised. They have no organisation to express their point of view or to present propositions on their behalf. Parents who have to look after large families have no opportunity to join organisations or, in many cases, to try to- present their position to the authorities so that the authorities will do something to rectify the position. These people fall within a totally unrepresented section of the community. Other groups have their representatives. The Returned Services League looks after the interests of returned servicemen; the taxpayer associations look after the interests of taxpayers; the Australian Medical Association looks after the interests of medical practitioners; and the trade unions look after the interests of their members insofar as wages are concerned. All these people are in a position to seek at any time professional help to protect their economic position, but who speaks for the large families in this community? Nobody, unless the parliamentarians speak for them. 
It is most proper that speeches of this nature should be registered in this place at this time. It is not without significance that, because nobody speaks for these people, they are the ones who have received the least consideration of all in the community. While wages have increased repeatedly at the instance of arbitration tribunals as a result of the representations of employee organisations and while there have been reductions in taxation - no doubt as a result of representations by the taxpayer associations and organisations which are looking after the interests of taxpayers, there has been no variation in the level of child endowment payments since 1967. The speech which I am making could well be spelt out by the sheer brutality of statistics, but time does not permit a lengthy recitation of statistics in this field, telling and all as they are. Nevertheless, the figures which are available spell out a most deplorable story. They spell out a story which completely justifies the very strong terms which I have used in the motion which I have moved on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. A section of the motion refers to the culpable neglect of the Commonwealth Government in allowing child endowment rates to deteriorate. T believe that the use of the expression 'culpable neglect' is completely justified. If one takes into consideration the fact that there has been a grave erosion in the value of money; that this erosion has been going on year after year; that steps have been taken in all other sections of the Community to hedge and to buttress against the effects of this erosion; and that there is one group in the community that is completely at the will and mercy of the government of the day and has not had any steps taken on its behalf for 4 years to alleviate its position one will agree that the use of the expression 'culpable neglect' is completely and totally justified. 
What is the position of the larger families in our community? It would be easy for me to recite in general terms that their position is bad, but I think it is proper that I should, on an occasion like this, cite authority. 1 cite authority which has been cited in this place in other contexts on many occasions, but it is authority which has brought its work substantially up to date. I refer to the survey which was conducted by the Institute of Applied Economic Research of the University of Melbourne. The results of this survey were reported in a paper presented on 26th January 1969. This document is one of the many reference papers which have been published on the subject of poverty in Australia. I wish to quote a few excerpts from it to show that there is irrefutable evidence, as a result of expert technical investigation, that the large family group is one group which is a victim of the current inflation and that it is a group which is providing one of the gross and grave areas of poverty in our community. The objective of the survey was to discover who were the poorest people and in what ways help could be most efficiently given. A line was drawn arbitrarily at a level equal to $33 a week for a family of a man and his wife and 2 children - this was in 1969 - and anything below that line constituted poverty and anything less than 20 per cent above it constituted marginal poverty. The paper slates: 
Of the fairly large group of large families 8.5 per cent were poor and 13.7 per cent only marginally above the poverty line on our index. 
That was found to be the position of one of the most worth while groups of citizens in our community, the large families with the little children, in the city of Melbourne. lt is quite obvious that there are pockets of poverty in our community. This survey found that 8.5 per cent of such families were in poverty and 13.7 per cent were only marginally above the level of sheer poverty, being Jess than 20 per cent above the poverty level. The paper continues: 
Large Families . . . arc often in lnc marginal category just above our austere poverty line, so that measuring by adjusted income after payment of cost of housing 28.5 per cent were either poor or marginal.  ft is important, therefore, to assess the circumstances of these people. The paper states that many children are growing up in acute poverty. It is a matter of national scandal that this position, which was registered before 1969 by the Institute in its analysis and reiterated as late as 1969, should have been allowed for one second to go on without governmental attention, yet more than 4 years have passed - certainly 2 years have passed since this document was published in 1969 - without any action being taken to rectify the tragic position of this group of citizens. The paper went on to report: 
The obvious remedy for poverty among large families is an increase in rates of. child endowment. Child endowment payments have not been increased as fast as incomes have risen in Australia in recent years. In 1950-51 they constituted 1.28 per cent of gross national expenditure; by 1968-69 they will be about 0.74 per cent of gross national expenditure. 
There has been a tragic deterioration in the relativity of child endowment to gross national expenditure. The figures which are available spell this out in many ways. In an answer which he gave in May 1969 the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  related this figure to average weekly earnings. It has shown that in 1949 child endowment represented 2.6 per cent of the average national earnings, but by 1970 it had dropped to 0.7 per cent. In other words, child endowment has become virtually a worthless contribution towards the assistance, succour and welfare of families of this nature, but nothing has been done about the matter. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Parly has elevated into the forefront of its social thinking the position of our young people and of the mothers and fathers who have the responsibility of protecting and rearing our young people and making them good citizens. My Party has over a number of years - by resolutions at its federal conferences, by the presentation in this place in 1966 of a Bill designed to increase the child endowment rates and by an annual amendment to the motion for the presentation of the Budget papers - constantly waged a campaign to have this matter receive the particular attention of the Government, but my Party has not been successful since 1967 in persuading the Government to' increase child endowment rates. I would say that the position has become totally indefensible. That is why the Democratic Labor Party has raised it as one of the trilogy of matters requiring urgent Government attention at this time. 
My Party is alerting the Government, to the concern that it has in this area. It is alerting the Government at a time when the Government is in a position to survey the whole economic and financial range of its administration and to determine what shall be the sources and amounts of its revenue and what shall be the destination of its expenditure in the coming Budget. This is the time when cases of concern such as this should ' be presented to those who have the responsibility of framing the Budget. The Democratic Labor Party expects its propositions, particularly this proposition, to be taken into consideration by the Government when it is considering Australia's financial future, as expressed in the annual statement of accounts, and it will look forward with keen anticipation to whether the Government will be finally able to discover some solicitude for this area of want and drastic need in the community because, as I have already said, these people have nobody to speak for them. 
Surely the greatest contnributon to the building of a nation must be the welfare of its young people. Vast sums have been spent by Australia on immigration. The figures represent something of this character: Taking 1964-65 as a base year, the annual expenditure for immigration was about S38m. By 1970-71 the amount had reached S77m. In that period there has been virtually a 100 per cent increase in the national financial appropriation for immigration but only about a 16 per cent increase in the appropriation for child endowment. Where do we put the accent in this country? However worth while it may be to bring new citizens, including children, from other countries do we give them priority in national concern over the creation of a growing national population from our own physical resources? Surely we should be encouraging large families, not merely because they will provide men and women in this community but also because of the very grave social and economic consequences if we do not do it. 
If families are living in conditions of want, the physical and dietary deprivation of the children concerned is not the only matter involved. There are very serious social consequences. Investigations have established that children from such homes do not have the same social and economic opportunities as do children from other homes. They do not attend technical colleges in the same number. Instead, they tend to provide the unskilled work force of the community. A nation in our position, a nation that today has not a big population, must rely in an increasing degree upon the application of technology, through technicians and tradesmen, to the mechanical aids that a modern society has. We, above all .nations, therefore, should be training and recruiting young technologists and technicians. We are depriving ourselves of this opportunity by keeping in want and need the families from which so many such young technicians can come, and the social and economic consequences of that can be very serious. 
We regard this as a most important matter. We can see no means of assisting these people unless through the goodwill of the Government. We press upon the Government that at this time it should set out to assist in the Budget this growing area of need. We can do no more. We have tried by a private member's Bill; we have tried by motions and amendments to Bills, and we now are trying by means of this urgency motion to impress upon the Government the seriousness of the position and the seriousness of our concern. We expect to get the support of all sections in the Senate in this matter. We expect as we believe we are entitled to expect, to get the support of the Australian Labor Party. If the Senate supports this motion which we now present as a matter of urgency, it will then go before the Government as the definitive parliamentary opinion of the majority of the citizens of Australia. Even if the Government cannot find it in its heart to support this motion, at least if the Opposition and perhaps  Senator Turnbull  support it we would represent the majority of thought of the Australian people, and surely a government must have some regard for that. We know no other way in which we can persuade the Government of the seriousness of the position or the depth of our concern. 
We point out to the Government that a great number of families in Australia comprise the 8.5 per cent, if that is the national average, which is living in poverty. There are 333,000 families which have 3 or more children. If the 8.5 per cent is applied to the 333,000 families it will be seen that probably 30,000 Australian families of 3 or more children are living in poverty or are below the poverty line. This is a matter of national disgrace. It must not be permitted to continue. If the Government in framing its Budget, fails to make some provision for those people it will deserve, and will certainly attract, the condemnation of the whole of the Australian nation. There is nothing more tragic than poverty in the midst of affluence. Where poverty is shared by all, the position is not so bad but where there is proverty in the midst of affluence there is always a tendency not to notice it, to take for granted that there is no such thing as poverty. That is the position in which so many Australian people find themselves. 
I commend this motion to honourable senators. As I have said, my colleague,  Senator Little,  will discuss the other aspects of it relating to maternity allowance, homes savings grants and the consol idation of child endowment. All of these things are important. All of these things are necessary. All of these things will make easier the lives of young married couples in rearing their children and will enhance the future prospects of the progeny of the marriage. A young nation must have regard to its young. The strength of a nation depends ultimately upon the vitality of its people and the coming of little children in sufficient numbers to regenerate the nation. France and other great nations have always found that to be the case. If we cannot arrive at a consciousness of our responsibility in this field then the nation has lost its sense of national perspective. It will be not only a continuing injusice to the people concerned; it will be not only a continuing deprivation of the nation of the services of young people; it will be more than that: ft will be an undermining of the whole future, stability and structure of an incipient great Australian nation. That is something we cannot afford to do. That is something to which neither the Government, the Opposition nor anyone else can afford to be a party. That is the challenge which lies before us today. It will be a grievous disappointment if this motion does not receive the enthusiastic and overwhelming support of all honourable senators. 1 commend it to this chamber hoping that it will attract such support. 
It is now some months since this chamber debated an interim ordinance. On that occasion many of the basic principles which underly the ordinances now before this chamber were discussed at great length and in considerable depth. On that occasion the attitudes of both sides of the House were substantially presented. Therefore, perhaps it is not warranted on this occasion that there should be a recapitualtion of the principles which were canvassed during that rather protracted debate. However, it is important to note that these ordinances have attracted great interest and considerable concern in the Australian Capital Territory. It is appropriate that that should be the case. Ordinances of this character which deal with the questions of land tenure in the ACT are of great interest not only to the nation but also to the residents of Canberra and those who have theoretical interests in the question of land tenure of one kind or another. 
In this matter the Australian Democratic Labor Party has had a great responsi bility - as it did on the occasion of the presentation of the interim ordinances - to examine the position as it saw it and to arrive at a decision as to what its attitude should be. We regarded this matter and we continue to regard it as important. We have brought to bear to the best of our ability the resources of our Party to determine what should be the most appropriate, just and effective resolution of this complex problem with which so many people are concerned. We have received many deputations from various interests about this matter. We have received voluminous presentations from individuals. We have been consulted by groups and organisations. The Democratic Labor Party has felt that it has had a duty and a responsibility to do this. That is why the Party delayed its final determination as to what its attitude should be on these ordinances until all those who reasonably wished to present their cases to the Party had had the opportunity of doing so, had seized that opportunity and had made their submissions. 
I do not think that anybody who sought to approach our Party or any individuals who had particular and personal submissions went unanswered or unheard. In an area which is extremely complex the Democratic Labor Party has attempted to bring its best judgment to the resolution of the problem which is before the Senate today. Perhaps it is not inappropriate that one should refer to an excerpt on this occasion from 'A Tale of Two Cities'. Honourable senators may well recall the opening paragraph of that famous book which stated: 
It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair,  we  had everything before us, we had nothing before us, we were all going direct to Heaven, we were all going direct the other way . . . 
As this is a tale of one city it is not inappropriate to refer to 'A Tale of Two Cities' because in this complex situation there are very great diversities of thought and opinion. I have never gained the impression from all those who have approached us that they are actuated by self interest. Nobody could completely divorce himself from the personal equation. We know that. But there were those who came before us who were activated by many considerations of an impersonal character. There were those who primarily by correspondence were identified philosophically with the great question of land reform as a general principle. There were those who were actuated by the economic and financial consequences to the nation and the question of land tenure over the whole Australian continent. There were those who were regarding particularly the position of the residents of Canberra - this generation and the young people who are to come. In this mass of various submissions there are contradictions, confusions and controversions. Our task in trying to treat a way through these and establish an opinion was not easy. But we have studied the allegations of the injustice which would be wrought by the application of the new ordinances and the considered replies of the Department of the Interior to these specific allegations. 
In a matter like this it is necessary to balance one against the other and to form one's judgment. I cannot help feeling that many of the submissions were of a somewhat emotive character and in many cases they rested upon speculation and perhaps a sense of anxiety as to what might happen rather than a cold consideration of what actually had happened and the possibility as to whether it might happen in the future in some exaggerated form. It is no: possible legitimately to substitute speculation for a pragmatic analysis. Let us take some of the considerations. After all these are the things which must weigh upon one's judgment: The leasehold system, a cherished system which was a concept in the early days of Federation and which ha* persisted up until now, was under challenge and in danger of dissolution and abandonment. While that might be held as an emotive concept it is contradicted by the facts because the leasehold system is not challenged. The legal concept of the leasehold system is that land is not held in fee-simiple, a rental is paid and a lease is determined. That principle is not abandoned. The only thing which is altered in that respect is the substitution of a nominal rental for what might be called a real rental' under the former pure leasehold system. That does not destroy the concept of the tenure at all. As a matter of fact, from the point of view of the rev- enue return from an individual block the substitution for what I call a real rental of the composite nominal rental plus a real municipal rate will give the same financial result without the disturbance of the concept of the leasehold principle. 
It is important in a city such as Canberra which is not only the capital of the Australian Capital Territory but which is the capital of a great and ever greater nation that there should be retained some method of discipline which would enable this capital to be developed in the manner and with the status and image which we would expect a national capital to have. Under the leasehold system the contractual terms of the lease give some discipline over individual land holders and they are required to conform to standards and plans of development and town planning. If we abandon that system we might also abandon that opportunity for discipline. That has not been done. The fact that the leasehold system is retained gives opportunity for town planning and municipal discipline in the control of the national capital under the appropriate commission. In my opinion the argument that that discipline has been abandoned does not warrant consideration. The land has not been alienated from the Commonwealth. It remains the property of the Commonwealth subject to the lease in the hands of the individual lessee. 
 Freehold is purely a legal concept. In no sense is the proposed system freehold. It has all the attributes of leashold The question of title, the question of ownership and the question of control are merely theoretical propositions. To my mind, to say that it has other qualifications which make it defacto freehold cannot be substantiated. However, the leasehold system was producing certain very grave anomalies which were starting to bear most heavily on those who could least afford to bear them. They were bearing very heavily on young people who were coming in and taking up land in this developing city at a late stage. Those who had come in in early days, before the value of money had eroded, were holding leasehold at virtually a nominal rental compared with the present real value of property and young people were required to buy land at th; current inflated price. 
 That, I say, was part of the system. Perhaps it could have been avoided but it would have meant the total disruption of the old system if it was qualified to provide for this anomaly and that anomaly. It was decided that these injustices could be avoided only by having a complete look at the present structure of the leasehold system in Canberra. From that the new ordinances which we are now discussing emerged. It was inherent in the very nature of things in Canberra that this system would have to be qualified in some way or other, and probably preferably in this way once inflation started to move the real value of land. For all its idealism, the. system could not stand up to the hard movement of prices in the modern economy, and what was intended to be a matter of distributive justice to land holders in this community was going to become an intolerable burden of injustice. Something had to be done about it. I think the solution which has been devised is appropriate. It will place no great hardship on the old holders of leases and it will be a great boon to the young people who are trying to buy land. 
 It is all right to say: They have to pay $3,000'. They always had to pay for the land. They never got the land for nothing. Even today they pay only onequarter of the reserve price, if they bid that price. If they bid above the reserve price they are able to secure finance. 
 Does  Senator Devitt  mean the question of law about the possibility of mortarging that land to secure finance? 
 If the reserve price of land is, say, $3,000 and a person bids $2,000, bridging finance is made available by the Commonwealth for that intermediate figure of $1,000. 
That is right at a not unreasonable interest rate. I am assured that any finance provided by the Commonwealth will be on such a basis that it will not impede the granting of a first morgage security over the land for the provision of finance from any housing or constructing authority to whom resort might be made by the landholder to secure finance for building. I am assured that whatever might be the nature of the loan given by the Commonwealth, it will not be such that it will provide a first mortgage security to the exclusion of any other organisation which is prepared to lend only on security. 
 I am assured that that is the position. I assume the Minister will be able to confirm that that is so. In the developing Canberra community we now have young people coming along who want to buy land. Reserve prices are determined. These young people are not required to bid against the world. Young people who come to Canberra and want to buy land after all, they would be our prime concern would come into the restricted auction group of people who do not have any land in the Australian Capital Territory. They are in a separate category in relation to bidding for land. A reserve price is determined at a lower level than in the other categories, and these people are in the market at that price. In the modern economy, nobody can say that it is beyond the means of young people to secure sufficient finance to pay onequarter of a reserve price which is determined at $2,000. I would find it very difficult to assume that that is beyond the reasonable competence of a young person or a young couple who want to establish their own home. 
I believe that under the old system the average price paid for restricted land was more than $1,000. On the average, the new price is more than $2,000. That makes a difference of $1,000. In one case a quarter would be $500 and in the other case it would be $250. So the extra amount of cash to be found, even under the new system, is $250. But, of course, no lease rental has to be paid; so there is relief to the degree that this was formerly an additional burden on the young purchaser of land. In those circumstances, with all the solicitude I can command, I am unable to see that Canberra residents, particularly the new Canberra residents, who want to select their own land and build their own home will be gravely disadvantaged. 
Let us look at the advantages that might accrue under the proposed new system. The Democratic Labor Party has always had a consistent point of view on this matter. It has always believed that what we call the normalisation of the situation in Canberra should be achieved as rapidly as possible. We have always pleaded that proper municipal authorities, operating with the normal functions of municipal authorities all over Australia, should be created. You,  Mr Deputy President,  having been the  chairman  of one of the major local governments in Queensland, would know that to endow a local area which has adequate municipal facilities with this status does confer on that area a dignity and a sense of responsibility that nothing else can. It invites the participation of citizens in the affairs of the municipality and the conduct of the affairs of their own district. There is no substitute for that. 
That position is never likely to develop in Canberra unless we try to normalise its local organisations. Whether it was in relation to various taxes that have been imposed - the sewerage tax and other imposts of that nature - the Democratic Labor Party has been a consistent advocate that this should be the plan for Canberra. I think that when history is written the people who live here will acknowledge that, although at times they have been asked to assume some burdens that they otherwise may have escaped, they have been able to accept and to discharge responsibilities that otherwise would have been denied them. I feel that this attitude in relation to land tenure falls into such a category. 
The effect of these ordinances will be to eliminate certain things, apart from those I have mentioned. People are now finding that their leases are becoming due for reappraisal, and such re-appraisals of rent occur at 20-year intervals. The first one may well come when the leaseholder has his family starting at university, when he is in the worst possible position to accept an increase in rental very greatly above what he was paying. If he manages to acquit himself of that new demand, at the end of the second 20 years when the rent is due for re-appraisal the land holder might be facing retirement, which is when he is least able to bear increased rental. These are the situations which inevitably developed once land started to move at this accelerated pace in the Australian Capital Territory. The point is that I cannot see any end - I doubt whether anybody can - to this process. 
After all, Canberra develops in a pattern that is not completely normal and not in consonance with development in other parts of Australia. As yet some of the greatest Commonwealth departments have not yet been moved to the national Capital. When they are moved here, of course, there will be another surge forward in the demands for land. In addition to that, once a city reaches a certain size a self-generating process begins to operate, and that process is already operating in Canberra. As Canberra assumes more and more the character of a national capital processes will develop that are beyond the ability of the Government to control. Great national organisations are already making the national capital their place of resort. It will be found that this trend will continue to an increasing degree. It will be found that, for example, religious orders will make Canberra their headquarters. The final accommodation of the High Court of Australia in Canberra must in turn bring with it the ancillary services and support that is required by the supreme court of the nation. It will be found that Service groups and commercial organisations will, to an increasing degree, transfer their headquarters and national control officers to Canberra. These transfers, which will affect the growth of Canberra, will go on for years and years. As the problems of the present leasehold system are said to be the outcome of the rapid and over rapid development of Canberra this continuous process must be taken into consideration. It is inevitable that action of this nature will have to be taken as the consequences of not taking it would be absolutely impossible for many of the leaseholders in Canberra to bear. I know that a case has been put for the reference of an inquiry into the whole leasehold system in the Australian Capital Territory to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. The Democratic Labor Party cannot see any merit in such a proposal. This matter has already been the subject of an inquiry by a departmental committee which, in its report, came up with certain recommendations from which the present proposals have emerged. 
My Party has received a great deal of correspondence from the residents of the A.C.T. on this subject. This correspondence has been from professional people and people who are engaged in the actual transfer of land as well as from academics operating in the theoretical field. I would say that all the relevant proposals that might reasonably be advanced in relation to this matter have been presented to and considered by the authorities as well as by the Senate on this occasion. I do not see any purpose being served in further examining this matter. I can think of several disabilities that might be suffered by many people if instead of this matter being resolved now it were to be entrusted to a committee whose recommendation may take a considerable time to come forward. I think the principles are now clear. I think the course is unmistakable. I believe that it is a course that, if followed, will be of great benefit to Canberra and its citizens and will be ultimately of great benefit to the nation. I do think that many of the people who have presented much of the correspondence and who have been responsible for much of the representations are theoretically tied to principles associated with land tenure generally and are stating those principles away from the pragmatic situation in this capital. Their principles might well be in theoretical isolation, but they are not completely relevant, if they are substantially relevant, to the position in Canberra today. I am conscious of the fact that the matter we are dealing with is of very great importance. I hope we are all imbued with the one thought that politics should not be involved in any way whatsoever in the approach of any political paty on this issue. We want to do what is best for the national capital. We want to do what is best for Canberra as a city in its own right and for the people who reside therein. I think this matter has been thoroughly investigated with a sense of sincerity of purpose by all honourable senators who have been required to give their minds to it. In those circumstances, the DLP supports the proposed ordinances as presented and resists the motion for disallowance as moved by  Senator Devitt  as it also resists the proposal that this matter should be referred to a committee for further investigation. I am satisfied that the matter has been approached objectively, that all the issues have been canvassed and that the advantages and disadvantages have been weighed. The solution which has been proposed by the Government commends itself to the DLP as one which is in the interests of Canberra and the nation. 
I am indebted to  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson for indicating to the Senate their attitude in relation to the amendment proposed by the Opposition. The attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to this matter has always been clear. To some extent the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy  epitomises, at least in intent, what the Democratic Labor Party has in mind. These adjustments by way of statute should not be made arbitrarily and just sporadically as a principal Act is being amended before this chamber. If it is intended that this principle should be applied then it should be applied to all those officers to whom' it is intended to apply without discrimination, .excluding those to whom it is thought inappropriate to apply it. This amendment at  Senator Murphy's  instance purports to do this. 
The attitude of the Democratic Labor Party is that a blanket amendment like this should not be moved without a close analysis of every position which may be affected and without a dissection showing the officers concerned, the type of officers, and the administrative difficulties which arise as a result of fixing some salaries by statute. Perhaps when  Senator Murphy  directs his mind to this situation or when it is brought to his attention he may think that it may be more appropriate in certain circumstances for the salaries and allowances to be fixed otherwise. We think it is rather dangerous and imprudent to do this. Therefore in the light of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's assurance about the complexities associated with this situation we think it is imprudent to accept a blanket amendment of this character. I think that in view of the form and method of the matter which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has presented, or which has been presented by the appropriate Minister to the Government, and his assurance that the matter is within the cognisance of the Government,  Senator Murphy  may consider not pursuing his amendment. The Democratic Labor Party says that it will rest in anticipation of this matter being pursued assiduously in the light of the general principle which has been enunciated and which has been accepted by the Senate. In those circumstances I support the Bill and resist the amendment which, in these circumstances,  Senator Murphy  may be disposed not to pursue. I commend that course of action to him. 
I do not wish to take up the time of the Senate at any length. I merely wish to say that one of the most important steps forward in the interests of the effective operation of the Parliament in recent years was the creation of the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel. One of the considerations that stimulated this chamber to support: that legislation, and to support it enthusiastically, was that it would result in the encouragement of greater numbers of draftsmen or draftsmen-in-training to join the newly created Office and that the effect of it would be to overcome difficulties such as this in the consolidation of statutes and their availability 'to the Parliament, to the legal profession and to the public at large. Also its effect would be to accelerate and facilitate the preparation of legislation for this chamber. If in spite of our endeavours, our support and our enthusiasm, the creation of this office has not resulted at least in making possible a consolidation of the statutes in the old form, or doing very much about it in the proposed new form, then I think the Senate would be gravely disappointed that its high hopes have not been realised. 
I know that there is a tendency when this matter is raised in the Senate to feel that it is a lawyer's preserve and that it is the convenience of the lawyers that affect the views which are presented by the members of the legal profession in this chamber. That is not so. The availability and accessibility to the law are very important considerations. They are of tremendous concern, not only to those whose discipline is the law but also to many others in the community. It should be of concern to the community at large that the laws of the country should be available in an accessible and up to date form. Therefore, we would hope that some activity might be shown towards overcoming the difficulties that are impeding the realisation of the fond high hopes of the Senate which were expressed at the time of the creation of this new Office. I do not think that any blame or any responsibility whatever can be attached to the officers of that Office." They have a tremendous job to do. With their limited resources they continue what they have done for so long and, although with great difficulty, they do it with amazing success and competence. But it is not good enough, and I believe that the Senate should take this opportunity to express its concern that apparently the support given by this chamber to the legislation to which I have referred has not achieved the result which was contemplated and expected, that the Senate now expects that the matter will receive the urgent and necessary attention of the Government, that in the future we can expect, the matter to receive the attention which it warrants, and that when the Budget Estimates are discussed we will have another opportunity to complain, as we did last year and as we are doing again tonight. 
 Mr Temporary Chairman,  for reasons which I will indicate later, I have come into this debate rather belatedly. Is the Committee discussing, among other things, the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation? 
As the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation are being discussed it is appropriate that I should state that I have just come in from Sydney on an aircraft which, due to the weather conditions, was delayed, but that is by the way. An instrument landing was probably made. My complaint is that the aircraft, which landed in driving, torrential rain and in a blustery wind of very great velocity, was parked possibly 100 yards or more from the air terminal building. Perhaps that was unavoidable. However, the only protection which was provided by the operator, which was in this case Trans Australia Airlines, was yellow umbrellas. The passengers were therefore required to hurry and scurry across the tarmac. Some of us, fortunately, had light slickers, but most did not. The mere protection of an umbrella on a tarmac that was possibly a quarter to three-quarters of an inch deep in water and in driving, blustery rain was insufficient. By taking a short cut into the terminal out of the rain some people had to leap over puddles of water that were possibly 2 or 3 inches deep. I am sure that most passengers got saturated with water. I raise this matter merely to ask whether better facilities could be provided. Surely something better than this can be done at the airport of the national capital. These were perhaps extreme conditions, but nevertheless they were of tremendous inconvenience to many of the passengers, particularly the ladies. Will the Minister advise me whether it is proposed to provide in the future something like the radial arms that are in operation at Essendon and other airports. I think that a repetition of this inconvenience should, if possible, be avoided in the future. 
While we are dealing with the departments that were examined by Estimates Committee E I take this opportunity to raise matters that are not exclusively germane to any of the departments embraced within the investigations of Estimates Committee E but which are germane to all departments which asked for supplementary appropriations. In the course of discussions with the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who appeared before Estimates Committee C as Minister for Works and as Minister responsible for various departments, I raised this matter. It deals with the non-appropriation of moneys in anticipation of foreseeable increases in salaries and wages as a result of determinations by arbitral bodies and tribunals, such as in the national wage case or as a result of determinations of the Public Service Board or the Public Service Arbitrator. I notice that in many of the estimates of the departments huge amounts had to be sought as supplementary appropriations because there had been no prime appropriation in anticipation of the determination of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the national wage case and in anticipation of the Public Service Arbitrator's decisions. 
When I raised this matter during the hearing of Estimates Committee C,  Senator Wright  explained that it was very difficult for the Government to appropriate moneys in anticipation of the decision of an arbitral or judicial tribunal because it might be imprudent or improper in that, according to the amount of the appropriations, some guide or some intimation could be given to an otherwise independent body as to the opinion of the Government or the amount likely or appropriate to be given and in respect of which financial provision should be made. The effect is that now, particularly when there is a national wage case every year or thereabouts, the Estimates are starting to lose their reality because of the enormous sums granted in supplementary appropriations in respect of salary and wage provisions. When these amounts are asked for in supplementary estimates it seems that the original prime estimate becomes totally unreal. I do not know whether there is any way round this. Although it was not the appropriate occasion, I took the opportunity to ask, through the Minister, a Treasury official, who was present at a meeting of Estimates Committee C, whether he could let me have the aggregate figures in relation to such salary and wage provisions. This has been done.  Senator Wright  has been kind enough to provide me with a copy of the letter addressed to him by  Mr Hill,  the First Assistant Secretary, Department of the Treasury. That letter was dated 29th April. I will take the liberty of reading it as it is only short. It reads: 
Dear  Senator Wright, 
During the course of the meeting of Senate Estimates Committee C on 20 April 1971  Senator Byrne  requested Treasury to supply the Committee with the total amount provided in the Additional Estimates for the item 01, Salaries and Allowances. 
You will recall that at the subsequent meeting of the Committee on 22 April a note was handed to you providing this information for the Committee, but you returned it with the endorsement How much of the total budget is represented by increases ordered by Industrial awards issued after 30/6/707'. 
As notified to you earlier in that note, the amount included in Document A for Salaries and Allowances is $38,328,000 - this includes all Commonwealth Departments as well as the civilian employees of the Service Departments. There is also an amount of $28,290,400 provided for pay and allowances for the Services. 
From information furnished by departments for which additional salary appropriations are sought in Document A, it appears that the cost in 1970- 71 of industrial awards made after 30 June 1970 to civilian employees is $32,924,600, of which the National Wage Case accounts for $15,404,000. This does not include the Post Office because of the different basis on which funds are appropriated for Post Office purposes. However, it is understood that the cost of increased awards affecting Post Office staff is $40.7m in 1970-71. The Post Office has absorbed the bulk of this and sought only $12m in Document B. 
If we aggregate the salaries and allowances for all Commonwealth departments at a round figure of S38m, plus the $28m sought in the supplementary estimates for the Services, that gives a total in round figures of $66m. If we add to that the net figure of $12m for the Post Office, that gives $78m. Obviously, when the annual Estimates are presented, and particularly when the Budget is close to stabilisation - that is, the equalisation of receipts and expenditure - it is totally unreal that that position should be presented when in fact there is a virtually known additional figure of dimensions of that character that cannot in the circumstances be adverted to. I do not know what the answer to this is.  Senator Wright  pointed out that it has been Treasury practice; it is Treasury tradition. I have indicated that, for reasons of prudence, perhaps the situation should not be disturbed. But perhaps there is some way in which we can inject a greater reality into the principal Estimates by in some way, knowing that there will be substantial wage and salary allocations in the succeeding financial year, providing for them in the Budget or at least adverting to them in some way in the statement of accounts. Otherwise a distorted financial picture will be presented to the nation. Nobody can say that the amount of $78m, which is a sum to which reference is not to be made but of which everybody is substantially aware, will be charged against revenue in the succeeding 12 months, and this renders a great portion of the Budget completely meaningless. I should be pleased if this matter could come within the attention of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, which in turn might present it to the Treasury for consideration as to some way in which the difficulty can be overcome, consonant with the complete independence of operation of arbitral and judicial bodies, and as to some way in which the prime Appropriation Bill might more accurately represent anticipated charges upon the national revenue in the year under review. 
Perhaps my slightly disorderly interjections during  Senator Murphy's  speech would lead the Senate to conclude that the Australian Democratic Labor Party does not support the suggested reference to a committee as was proposed by the Opposition. I suppose the . essence of this Bill is that it embodies fundamental differences of political attitudes on this question of law and order. It seems to me to be a most inappropriate matter to go to a committee because, by its nature, it would definitely intrude into the committee grave political differences, and I feel, that in .view of the attitude of senators sitting, behind  Senator Murphy  in relation to other committees of this Senate where, the. argument has been put that matters of a political nature should not be taken off the floor of this Senate and put into the committee chambers, the honourable, senator may not secure the support of. honourable senators who sit behind him. He may get their support by vote but 1 do not think that, in view of their attitude that political issues should not be translated out of this chamber, in their hearts they would support their leader in his attitude to this Bill. 
If this reference was to be purely from the point of view of the technical legal interpreation of certain clauses, or perhaps to improve the drafting in certain particulars we could understand it, but  Senator Murphy  under questioning, first of all, did not appear to come to the Senate with any predetermined list of propositions which he thought should properly go to the committee. He seemed, to me, to improvise as he went along in response to my interrogation. Because of that I do not feel that the honourable senator had a particularly firm belief that there would be any great merit or any great value in having this Bill so referred. 
That might have been a piece of unwarranted optimism. For all these reasons 1 do not feel any purpose would be served, and some grave disservice might occur, in referring this Bill to a committee. For that reason the Democratic Labor Party opposes the proposition. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the serious European  balance of payments problem involving the United States dollar and its implications for the Australian dollar, will the Minister representing the Treasurer make a statement to the Senate before it rises outlining Australia's position so as to allay speculation and other eventualities should a flow of United States dollars into this country commence? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn the last 48 hours there has been considerable publicity in relation to the movement in international finance resulting from a flow of United States dollars and other international currency. I think it is fair to ask the Treasurer to consider making a statement on this matter. In the last couple of hours I have sought to inform myself on the implications for Australia of this movement. I shall put the honourable senator's proposition to the Treasurer and inform him whether it is the Treasurer's intention to make a statement. 
I wish merely to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. When a Bill of this character comes before this chamber we should register our continuing and persistent interest in and identification with Papua New Guinea and the contribution that Australia is making to the development of Papua New Guinea. I know that we are charged sometimes regarding our contributions to the development of underdeveloped countries, but our contribution is high, particularly when we take into account our contribution to Papua New Guinea. What we are doing for that country leaves nothing for Australia to be ashamed of. This Bill is another indication of our identification, interest and support, and for that reason the Democratic Labor Party commends the Bill. We trust that the enormous project for which the loan is to be made will be of great and enduring benefit to the Territory and will proceed without interruption until its fruits can be available to all who live in the Territory. 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer request the Treasurer to make a considered statement which will necessarily be outside Parliament - the House of Representatives having risen - on the implications for Australia of the floating of the Deutsche mark and the revaluation of certain European national currencies? 
I was asked a question last week by an honourable senator in relation to the implications of the movement of European currency, with particular reference to the Deutsche mark and the American dollar. As I promised at question time on Friday, I have sought a statement from the Treasurer. In fact, I have a statement from the Treasury which runs into 4 or 5 pages. I have to make up my mind as to how I shall present it - whether I present it as a statement by leave later or whether 1 circulate it. I do not think it is appropriate to present it at question time because it is so comprehensive. I also feel bound to say that it is still early days because there may be further movements. The statement represents the position only up to the present. It is a Treasury appreciation of the present situation. In the days ahead, there may be movements which may necessitate the making of a further statement. However, I will give consideration during the day as to how I shall present this statement to the Senate. 
The purpose of this Bill is to activate further financial assistance by Australia to the developing countries on terms and conditions which make it possible for them to increase their economic viability without the dead weight of repayments beyond their capacity and interest charges beyond their ability to meet so that they are able lo service their loan indebtedness. Some weeks ago I had the privilege of participating with other honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives in a mission to the Council of Europe held at Strasburg. It is a council of Ministers of European countries concerned with matters of mutual interest. Arms of the Council are the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the Development Aid Committee. For many years Australia has been an associate member of the Council of Europe, but this was the first occasion on which Australia was asked to participate in its deliberations. The Australian delegation was led by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson.  Sir William  Aston, the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, was also a participating member of the delegation.  Senator Mulvihill, Senator Davidson, Mr Hurford  and  Dr Gun,  and  Mr O'Keefe  of the Australian Country Party, constituted the remainder of the delegation. It was a most significant occasion for Australia because it was the first time that we had been given an opportunity actually to participate in the deliberations and discussions of the Assembly. To my knowledge, the report of the Australian delegation has not yet been compiled and presented. Therefore, I may be anticipating the report when I address myself to the situation on this occasion. But I believe that I should take this opportunity to acknowledge the welcome which was given to the Australian delegation, as an actual participant in these deliberations, by those who constituted the General Assembly. 
On a particular day the whole of the Australian delegation was given an opportunity to participate in the debate in the Assembly. That was a most significant honour because naturally time was short and opportunities for speakers to be accommodated in the time schedule were limited. But, nevertheless, the members of the Assembly gave us an opportunity to take part in the debate, and virtually every member of the Australian delegation contributed in some way or other to the deliberations. There were many contributions of a diverse character because the area to which we were addressing ourselves - and to which the Australian delegation particularly was addressing itself - was the provision of aid to developing countries. I think that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, as leader of the delegation, presented an account of Australia's contribution, and the other members of the delegation presented their individual views as to those matters which particularly warranted international attention in this field of providing aid to developing countries. We felt individually - and I think it was felt by the Assembly - that the Australian delegation having come 12,000 miles to participate in what appeared to be purely a pan-European congress, was an instance of the new world coming into the deliberations of the old world and co-operating in the fullest degree to help the underdeveloped countries, which would be unable to progress at all without the assistance of the developed countries whether old or new. 
Therefore, when a Bill such as this comes before the Parliament it is accepted with enthusiasm and with the unqualified support of all groups and sections within the legislature. I feel that as a result of the visit of this delegation and our participation in the deliberations, the association or alliance between Australia and the European countries wiil.be even closer and stronger. It was considered an amazing thing that a delegation from our country should come from so far away in order to get together with the delegates of European countries to discuss this programme of participating aid. There were quite small delegations of 3 members, I think, from Japan and Canada. The Australian delegation was numerically the largest and, for that reason, I believe the most significant. I think that Australians would have been proud to know that their country had seen fit to join in those deliberations and to place before this meeting of the Assembly of the nations of Europe our programme of aid and the measures of assistance which we had given over the years. 
I take this opportunity to pay my respects and to express, on behalf of our delegation, our appreciation of the manner in which the delegation was led on that occasion by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. Naturally, he presented the major contribution and made the major speech at the General Assembly. He placed before it the governmental point of view, the governmental programme and the governmental record which, substantially, was the record of Australia generally. There may be differences between parties as to the exact form which aid should take and as to the exact amount of aid which should be given, but there is no argument on the necessity for aid and for the most generous assistance that can be forthcoming. So I take this opportunity to place these matters on the record, and I hope that we who were present on that occasion were only the precursors of similar delegations on other occasions because we were welcomed there, our presence was recognised and we were given an honoured position. I believe that other countries recognise the role which we are playing in providing aid to developing countries and that they accept our assurances that within the limits of generosity and capacity we will continue to' play the role that we have played up to this time. The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (3.11)  - 1  do not intend to take much time on this Bill, but on this question of international aid I want to place before the Senate a point of view which 1 think is timely.  1  do not accept the view that Australia should seek directly to put itself in the position of being one of those nations which contribute 1 per cent of their gross national product in the form of aid. Australia is a capital importing country, and a great deal of the aid that we are able to contribute at the present time is contributed because of the fact that we are able to redistribute some of the capital which is flowing into Australia. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has made the comment that we have reached the stage where we are contributing 1 per cent of our gross national product towards aid to other countries, but lumped into this figure is the foreign capital which has flowed into Australia and which has been then remitted into the Bougainville area for the development of the Comalco copper mines in Bougainville. This amount is included in the amount which we claim we are contributing in the form of aid to the less developed countries. 1 am also of the opinion that not only are we over-stretching ourselves in thi provision of aid, but we are confronted in Australia at the present time with constant and escalating demands for sums of money for social services and aid to the States. Later in this session we will be dealing with a Bill which cuts back some $9m from Victoria, the State that I represent. Victoria is attempting to maintain its own rate of progress although it has no control over the resources which it is required to produce in order to maintain this rate of progress. This can be duplicated all over Australia. I was interested to analyse some of the contributions which have been made to the International Development Association. It is interesting to observe that not one Communist country contributes to the Association. The only country which might be described as a Socialist country and which contributes something towards the Association is Yugoslavia. It contributes $4m. But when one looks at the tensions in the world today one discovers that all that the Socialist republics of the various parts of trie world contribute is the iron rations of war. It is the Western countries which are being asked to contribute sums of money towards the International Development Association. 
I will  refer to some of the amounts of money that are being contributed to the Association, and I ask honourable senators to bear in mind that not one of the Socialist countries, with the exception of Yugoslavia, is contributing anything to the Association. Australia is asked to produce $US48m: Austria $US16.3m; Belgium, $US40.8m: Canada, $US150m- and Canada can afford to pay that for the simple reason that it has very small defence expenditure. Most of the time Canada lives in an asbestos box provided by the United States of America. Denmark is asked to produce $US26.4m: Finland, SUS12.2m: France. $US150m: Germany, $US234m; Italy, SUS96.7m; Japan $US144m; Kuwait, SUS1 0.8m- and Kuwait has plenty of oil, and we are paying for it. Luxembourg is asked to produce $US1.2m, the Netherlands, $US67.6m: Norway, $US24m; South Africa, $US3m; Sweden, $US102m. There is a note about Switzerland which says that Switzerland is nol a member of the International Development Association but has agreed to lend $US30m free of interest, to be repaid in 40 annual payments. That might be an idea. The United Kingdom is asked to produce $US311m. The United States, out of a total of SUS2,428m, is asked to produce $US960m. 
Yes, it is always being abused for doing that. I reiterate that with which I began. I think that some of this charity should be recognised as beginning at home. Later in the session we will be involved in trying to reconstruct Australian primary industries. As I travel Victoria I see some of the problems that I associate - as a man of my age would associate them - with the economic depression 1930 and 1931. I point out to the Senate that keeping up with the international Joneses is no job for us at present. We have tremendous internal problems. I think in regard to some of the money that we appropriate for international aid, whether it be to increase the capital of the Asian Developmental Bank or provide soft loans to the International Development Association - wherever this aid goes and however much it may create a sense of warmth in the hearts of the people who feel that we have a duty to do this kind of thing - the time is being reached, if it has not been reached already, where we should start to divert some of this money into the areas of need in Australia. I regard that as our primary responsibility. If we continue on this escalator of producing these vast sums of aid, particularly when we have areas of substantial need in Australia, an angry Australian electorate, when the truth finally reaches it, will argue much as I am arguing this afternoon. The commitment has been made. For that reason, but for no other reason, I support the Bill. 
I think this is a rather inappropriate subject to canvass with the Minister when he perhaps does not have the appropriate advisers to deal with a matter as complex and as exotic in this context. I do not know whether  Senator Murphy  proposes to make an issue of this matter, but it could well be raised, with respect to the honourable senator, at another time. To press this question now may in the circumstances be a fruitless pursuit. I only make that suggestion. 
There is a rather interminable conflict between  Senator Murphy  and myself in relation to the reconciliation between the rights of individuals and the group rights in communities. This is another exemplification of that conflict. As I sec legislation of this nature, it is legislation which is possibly asked for by those participating in a certain industry in their own interest for the protection of all participants in that industry. If that is so, then if any participant in that industry moves outside the regulatory provisions of the statute it will do great harm to the co-participants and may .ultimately wreck the whole scheme. In those circumstances every participant has a solemn obligation to play his part and to discharge his role properly and to comply with the regulations. If this was a Bill which was designed merely to collect revenue for the Commonwealth that may be one matter. This is a Bill designed to protect the interests of those within the industry. That is the idea of the Bill. Therefore, in framing the legislation in this way, the 'Commonwealth is going to the maximum extent possible to help those in that industry who require protection from those who move outside the disciplines which are imposed by law. 
Generally averments are by no means a new evidentiary practice. In legislation of this character they are particularly common. They are common not only in Federal legislation but also in State legislation in relation to marketing boards and bodies of that nature. They are a type of evidentiary provision which has been inserted by governments of all political complexions, retained by governments of all political complexions and operated by governments of all political complexions. In those circumstances while this averment, on the face of it, may appear to be wide it seems to be one in which, in the practical application of the section before any court, the complaint necessarily would be restricted to matters relevant to establish the offence. In that way the suggestions of wide and irrelevant averments, in my concept, would not arise. In those circumstances this averment is put at the lowest possible level. It is not conclusive evidence. It is merely evidence, and no more than that. 
Because this is the conflict in which there has to be some circumscription of the rights of the individual in favour of the communal rights of others associated with the individual and as a means of protecting the other members of the participating group, this averment seems to be warranted. It is true to say that this is a levy on the industry. If it was permitted for people to move outside the industry and if difficult evidentiary provisions were provided involving necessarily the provision of a heavy administrative staff and a heavy superstructure of cost, then the whole purpose of the legislation would be defeated and an intolerable financial burden would be imposed on the industry and on the participants which ultimately would make the whole scheme unworkable. There must be a reconciliation between the 2 groups, the 2 interests. I feel that this is not any unwarranted assumption of the rights of the State or of any authority unduly inserted against . the interests and welfare of the participating individuals. 
1 assure you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  and honourable senators that the Australian Democratic Labor Party is flying a short haulage aircraft in this debate. I do not intend to keep honourable senators very long. I merely rise to indicate the support of the Democratic Labor Party for this Bill and to make one or two observations. The aviation industry, and more particularly the international aviation industry, is in a strange position. Almost all internation airlines, with some exceptions and apart from the countries behind the Iron Curtain, are flying substantially the same limited types of aircraft - Boeings, perhaps Douglases and some other British planes - the great bulk of which are manufactured in the United States of America. That means that the airline companies are really discharging a strange sort of commercial enterprise. The only way in which they oan continue to function in intense commercial competition, in view of the fact that they are not masters of the manufacture of their own instruments of operation, is by very intense regard for efficiency within the industry. To that extent I agree with  Senator Wood  that the industry must have a particular concern for efficiency because there are these limitations within which Qantas and most of the other international airlines must operate. 
That being so, the aircraft operating industry is particularly sensitive to anything that might impair that efficiency. I do not agree with  Senator Wood  when he speaks of the disappointment in Qantas Airways Ltd being experienced by people due to stoppages as a result of industrial unrest. There have been stoppages in more recent times. They have been severe and they have been regrettable, but they were not confined to Qantas. There were major stoppages overseas very recently with the British Overseas Airways Corporation. I think it would be a slightly unfair reflection on the reputation of Qantas to say that the impression was gained that there has been an atmosphere of frustration and disappointment built up among would be Qantas patrons because of these industrial stoppages. More recently there has been this atmosphere but the general impression of Qantas is that it is most reliable in its mechanical operating efficiency, its high standard of airworthiness and, in addition, it is an extremely competently run airline administratively. While these more recent industrial stoppages may have done something to mar that image they have not done it to a large extent. 
The Australian people still have the highest regard, properly and correctly based, for the national airline. But let us remember this: As far as I have been able to see, priority in patronage is given by people of a nation to its national airline because it is its own national airline and not necessarily because it is more efficient than some other airline. But how long can that condition remain? If an airline loses its efficiency I am afraid the tug of national patriotism would not be sufficiently strong to attract continued patronage. Therefore overall and at all times there is this tremendous demand for maintaining the highest standard of operational efficiency. Regularly moneys have to be obtained on loan to finance the purchase of the latest available aircraft because, unfortunately, no company can continue to operate efficiently with aeroplanes which are slightly outmoded, even from the point of view of economic operation, or which do not provide that level of passenger service which the patronising public have now come to expect and even demand. With the emergence of planes like the Boeing 747 with its tremendous initial capital cost we can expect over the years that there will be increasing demands for heavier and heavier capital investment. That is something we must recognise. If this capital is to be serviced, if the company is to continue to operate with economic efficiency, to balance its budget, and to provide some element of profits and reserves, this standard of efficiency must be maintained. In Australia we have a magnificent record of aeronautical efficiency in administration and in technical operation. I trust that nothing will ever mar that situation. Qantas has made one of the major contributions in this field and has achieved international recognition. 
There may be some warrant, as there is in other democratic countries where the Westminster parliamentary system operates, for having some parliamentary structure which can bring under scrutiny public corporations such as Qantas. We are intensely proud of Qantas. If we were to scrutinise its activities it would not be in any hypercritical sense to disclose its shortcomings but merely to examine its structure and see whether improvements could be effected. That may well be a matter which might come within the cognisance of the transformed Senate through one of its committees or through the creation of some special standing committee which might have as a matter of immediate purview the exploration of the public corporation, whether it is Trans-Australia Airlines; the Australian National Line; Qantas Airways Ltd, the national airline, or one of the other public corporations which are now starting to proliferate in this country. A public corporation is not really subject to parliamentary scrutiny at all because that is one of its traditions. In a substantial way the public corporation may well, in a spirit of generous co-operation and assistance, come within the purview of the Senate and therefore of the Parliament through the committee system. I commend this suggestion to honourable senators who at a suitable time might feel that there is something in the suggestion which might warrant the detailed and mature consideration of the Senate. The combined views and suggestions of honourable senators might be pooled to assist in the further development and to raise the status and maintain the efficiency of this great national airline, Qantas. The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party naturally supports this Bill, but I am intrigued as to the real reason for its introduction.  Senator Cotton,  who introduced this Bill in the Senate on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  indicated in his second reading speech that it is difficult to anticipate prospective loan raisings and that a shortfall in loan raisings will cause a deficit in the total national accounts which otherwise would not have occurred. Authority is now being sought to raise moneys to bridge the gap, which may be the result of many factors; for example, a fall in revenue or over expenditure greater than was anticipated, together with a shortfall in loan raisings. Perhaps the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  would be good enough to indicate precisely the areas in which shortfalls or over expenditure occurred which gave rise to this Bill. 
I know of one area. I drew attention to it in discussing the supplementary Estimates. I refer to the extraordinary situation wherein the Budget makes no provision at all for the virtually known additional expenditure required by the Government as a result of the determination of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the national wage case, declarations of the Public Service Arbitrator on matters at that time before him and decisions to be handed down after the framing of the Budget. That gives to the national accounts an unreality which becomes obvious when a Bill such as this has to be presented to bridge the gap. It is most important that when the Estimates of anticipated receipts and expenditure are placed before the Parliament they are as close as humanly possible to the figures that will emerge. There is a total unreality about the procedure, because at the moment that those Estimates are framed it is known that they will be grossly out of perspective in a few months time. Yet 1 am told that there is no way to avoid this situation because it is neither prudent nor proper to anticipate decisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or the Public Service Arbitrator, particularly at the instance of the great Commonwealth authority which might in that way indicate its anticipation of the decision or in some way have an effect or influence upon the decision that will be handed down. 
If this method of presenting accounts is to be continued we will inevitably have before us propositions such as that contained in this Bill. As I said some days ago, I hope that the Public Accounts Committee will take this matter into its considerations in co-operation with the Treasury to see whether consonant with propriety when dealing with judicial or quasi-judicial tribunals some method might be found by which national accounts when presented at Budget time have a much closer approximation to the ultimate figures that emerge. The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party I wish to pay tribute of our respect and regard to you,  Mr President,  and to the other honourable senators who will be retiring from this Senate. 1 do so in the absence of  Senator Gair  who is incommoded with a very heavy throat infection. He has asked me to identify him personally with the remarks which I now propose to make. It is a sad occasion when so many honourable senators who have been our friends and colleagues for so long have, by choice or other circumstances, been put in the position now of severing their connection with this chamber. But nevertheless it is an occasion on which we can record the contributions they have made and the value they have been to this chamber and through it to the Australian nation. I am particularly pleased to have this opportunity to speak even in these circumstances because of my long parliamentary associationthough somewhat interrupted - with the honourable senators who are retiring, with your good self,  Mr President,  with  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin, with  Senator Hendrickson  and with  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood. They have all been in this chamber for many years and I was an early colleague of theirs. 
I would just recall that you,  Mr President,  and I entered this chamber on the same day and made our maiden speeches on the same day way back in 1951. Over the years our parliamentary association has engendered a very deep regard - on my part for yourself and I would hope on your part for me. I know that I have been the recipient of many kindnesses at your hand, as has every other honourable senator in this chamber. I think it should be said that your presence, as does the presence of any significant figure, will always leave an indelible impression on this institution with which you have been associated for so long and so honourably. Your identification, particularly with the establishment of the parliamentary committee system, has had a strange impact on this institution in that it has brought members much closer together in a communion of interest and responsibility so that those who perhaps stood at arm's length across the chamber found themselves in a closer association in which they understood each other's point of view. I think the real value of the work of the Senate in more recent years has been to a great degree the consequence of that closer understanding and therefore the reciprocal regard and respect which honourable senators serving on these parliamentary committees have engendered one for another. 
I know,  Mr President,  that you have, and always have had, a certain style as  President.  After all, the Standing Orders are always before you on your bench but I think it could be said that you have never regarded the Standing Orders as an iron discipline to be exercised over honourable senators. You have regarded them as guidelines to be generally observed, but no more than that. Therefore your attitude in the chair has been one of liberality and understanding. But I think it should be said it is not possible for such a style to be discharged unless it is accompanied by tremendous stature in the person who elects to act in that way and by tremendous regard and respect for the impartiality, integrity and understanding of the person who elects to use his office in that way. You have all those qualities,  Mr President,  and that is why your style of presidency has been an enormous success and has engendered the free flow and the fruitful discharge of business in this chamber. So to you,  Mr President,  I pay my own personal  respects  and the respects of my Party and I wish to you and Lady McMuIlin long years of happiness and contentment in the honourable retirement which is now your due. 
I mention particularly  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin and pay her a tribute of personal regard and also a tribute of chivalry. We have had a long association in this place and I shall be very sorry when she no longer sits on the Government benches where she as Government Whip always provided midnight suppers for honourable senators whose tempers were frayed and were brought to any discharge of their duties only by the solicitude she always showed in the discharge of her duties. To other honourable senators I pay my tribute of respect. They have brought to this place the disciplines which they commanded in private life. They have liberally brought to the discharge of their duties the knowledge and skills which they acquired before they came here. The Parliament is richer for the fact that they have been with us. They have made their contribution. They go out with honour and distinction to the retirement which is now theirs. 
This is an important measure because it involves an increase in the size of the Ministry. Then, of course, there is the ancillary statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  as to the proposal to appoint Assistant Ministers. The Australian Democratic Labor Party through its Leader,  Senator Gair,  has indicated that we support this measure.  Senator Gair  made one specific point and it was that we supported the measure only after there was a complete reassurance that there were areas of public administration which more appropriately and more competently could be handled providing they were entrusted exclusively to a Minister than if they were dispersed through a number of portfolios. That remains the basis of our support for this Bill, and we rest on that assurance. 
I am interested in a number of aspects of this matter. The first is that the new Minister will take under his control some areas which must be considered to be apolitical. That is, by the nature of the areas of administration they are not political in character; they involve science and the arts and things of that nature including the new area of environmental control 
I suppose they could be political but they are not exclusively and specifically political. 
I suppose unfortunately that is so. These are areas in which there has been a certain element of ideological penetration which is significant and which requires at least constant scrutiny. 
That might be a better way to put it. The other aspect of the matter, of course, is the question of environmental control. This is a matter which has particularly occupied the attention of the Senate. After all, it was at the initiative of the Senate that 2 select committees were constituted to look primarily at this question of environmental control. The other place had not moved in this field but the Senate appointed select committees to inquire into air pollution and water pollution. The Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution brought in a less comprehensive report - because it was in a narrower area - than did the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution.  Senator Rae,  who is a Government supporter, was a most valuable member of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. We brought down a report which - [ say this without undue vanity - has been considered a type of textbook report in this area, not only in regard to its substance but also in regard to its format which pioneered a new road in the presentation and form of parliamentary reports. I was gratified to discover that the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse had followed this pattern in the format of its report which was presented and tabled in this place the other day. That Committee presented its report in a most eyecatching format which was intended to attract the attention of those who should be interested in the problem. That was the very idea which attracted the attention of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and that is why we designed our report in that way. 
In other words, the Senate has been in the forefront of initiating parliamentary interest in the field of environmental pollution. Part of our report went to the very complex question of the dual responsibility of the Commonwealth and the States in this area of environmental control, that is, the administrative difficulties and more particularly the constitutional difficulties. We pointed out that perhaps the best solution lay within the area of what is now called co-operative federalism in which there should be parallel or complementary legislation by the Commonwealth and the States. That was the basis of our ultimate recommendation so far as the creation of an appropriate structure was concerned. This is the Mouse that has been particularly concerned with the definition of Commonwealth and State rights and has interested itself in this field. It is most appropriate, therefore, that this chamber should be interested in the appointment of a Minister who would have that area of public administration under his exclusive jurisdiction. 
That may be so. I am mentioning this because if a new Minister is to be appointed and if one of the major areas of his ministerial responsibility is to be this question of environmental control, as the Senate has been the initiating body in directing and stimulating parliamentary interest in this operation and as the Senate is by its constitution a body of the legislature which has the question of the definition of Commonwealth and State rights within its protection, the new Minister should be appointed to the Senate. It is not for this chamber, of course, to direct the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  as to who shall be the subject of his appointment or from which House he will come but 1 do think that the Senate should make firmly known the view that as this matter of environmental control will occupy the attention of the new Minister, he should come from this chamber. 
The second point I wish to make is that quite apart from that compelling reason why the additional Minister should come from the Senate we must consider the increasingly heavy responsibilities that are falling upon Senate Ministers. As the Ministry increases and as the complexity and area of Executive administration diversifies and increases an additionally heavy burden is continually imposed upon Senate Ministers. I have a great solicitude for members of the Executive Government under the Westminster system. They have a very much heavier responsibility and body of duties than have their counterparts under the presidential governmental system. Under the presidential governmental system a Secretary of State, say, in the United States, is required to administer his department and perform other duties of that character whereas under the Westminster system the same gentleman is required to represent an electorate - or a State if he is a senator - to run his department, to appear in the House and answer questions, to present legislation for his department and to present, defend and explain the estimates for his department. Therefore prima facie the responsibilities of the Minister under the Westminster system of government are very much more demanding than those of his counterpart under the presidential system. 
When we add to that the fact that under the Australian system we have 5 Ministers in this place who are required to represent 20-odd Ministers in the other place, to answer questions about their own departments, to present their own estimates, to present their own legislation and in addition to present the legislation as it conies from the other place to this chamber for all the other Ministries and to answer questions in relation to the departments of the Ministers they represent, then one realises the tremendously increased burden that is now falling upon the Senate Ministers. In addition, with the development of the committee system, what have we seen over the last few weeks and earlier in this financial year when the Estimates Committees were operating? The Senate Ministers were required, with departmental officers not only of their own departments but also of the departments of Ministers they represent in this chamber, to appear before the Estimates Committees and for hour after hour to undergo the most intensive interrogation from a body of honourable senators in relation to their own ministerial responsibilities and their vicarious ministerial responsibilities for the departments they represent. These things are adding an enormous burden of work and responsibility onto the Senate Ministers. 1 took the opportunity to have some figures taken out to indicate just what are the relative work loads in one narrow area of ministerial responsibility as between the Senate Ministers and Ministers in the House of Representatives. I do not wish to cast any aspersions on the other place, even if it were permissible under the Standing Orders, but these figures are interesting. For the first full calendar year for which figures are available, which is 1970, there were two sessional periods. In the sessional period from March to June 1,083 questions without notice were directed to Senate Ministers and in the August to November sessional period 820 questions without notice were directed to Senate Ministers relating to their own departments and to the departments they represent. This meant that a total of 1,903 questions without notice were directed to Senate Ministers in 1970. In the period from March to June 1970 in the House of Representatives 676 questions without notice were directed to Ministers and in the second sessional period from August to November 512. questions without notice were asked, making a total of 1,188 questions without notice. So in the year under consideration Senate Ministers were required to answer 1,903 questions without notice while Ministers in the House of Representatives in the same period were required to answer 1,188. That gives an indication of the tremendous additional burden which is borne by Senate Ministers in their own right and in their role as representatives of House of Representatives Ministers. 
I know that the answer to some of the questions directed to a Minister in this place concerning the department of a Min.istery he represents may be: 'Well, I do not know the answer to that and I shall refer it to my colleague.' But that does not always happen. The Senate Minister usually from his general knowledge gives some reply to that question and then says: I will refer that question for further details to my colleague in another place whom I represent.' So I think we can substantially accept that those figures show a fair comparison of the relative work loads borne by Ministers in this place and Ministers in the other place. If that is so it shows that the Ministers in the Senate require some support and assistance or some increase in their membership relative to the ministerial strength in the House of Representatives. With the additional burdens now imposed on Ministers by virtue of the work of estimates committees, standing committees and other committees which may well require their presence, support and perhaps their evidence, I strongly urge upon the Government that any undue increase in ministerial strength in the House of Representatives as against the Senate should be discounted. There is a very strong case to be made for adding to the ministerial strength in the Senate, provided that one accepts the proposition that Ministers should be in this place at all. I think we must accept that as a fact of policital life. Having accepted that, I strongly urge this other consideration. 
As I said, it is not for me or for this chamber to dictate to the Prime Minister whom he should select to be the additional Minister contemplated under this Bill or from which House he should come. I merely put those matters before the Prime Minister for his consideration. But if, for some reason, he does not find it possible to increase the ministerial strength in this chamber then the new principle of the appointment of Assistant Ministers might well be the way in which he can relieve the work load on Ministers in this place. Apparently the Prime Minister contemplates Assistant Ministers who will substantially assist members of the Cabinet or, at least, certain designated members of the Cabinet. We have only one member of the Cabinet in the Senate and that is the distinguished Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  If that is the Prime Minister's contemplation, on that basis we would receive only one Assistant Minister in this place of whatever number might be created. I think that would be a bad principle. In the circumstances if the Prime Minister considers that he is unable to provide the Senate with an additional Minister, at least he might provide the Senate with 2 of the Assistant Ministers, one to assist the member of the Cabinet and one to assist some other senior Minister who, while merely a member of the Ministry, may have a substantial work load or a substantial representative work load. 
I conclude on this note. This is not merely a matter of solicitude for the honourable senators who occupy the front bench on the Government side although that is an important consideration. The consideration goes further than that. It goes to the question of the efficient functioning of this chamber. Candidly this chamber is a very much more difficult chamber in which Ministers operate than was the case before and than is the case in the House of Representatives. The Government does not control and is unlikely to control a numerical majority in this chamber for years to come. I am not speaking now of the ebb and flow of the outcome of elections. I am talking of the pattern of elections now discernible in this community. With the emergence of independents of various characters and with the presence - we hope the expanded presence - of the Democratic Labor Party there is going to be in this chamber a completely new complexion which is denied to the House of Representatives. The Senate will have a character in which there is nothing completely politically certain, in the parliamentary sense, and in which Ministers therefore will have to consider with much more care and in much more detail proposals and amendments which may come from various sections of the 
House, and it may be necessary to accommodate those varying opinions. These things are not done in the House of Representatives where there is something which we might call the brutality of numbers. 
In this developing character of the Senate these considerations are becoming increasingly important. If the Senate in its new character is going to be given the opportunity to develop and to function as we have aimed to have it develop and function by the creation of committees and by the participation of more and more honourable senators in the working life of the Senate, then action must be taken by the Government to equate the ministerial strength in this chamber to the new requirements of the upper House of the Australian Parliament. For those reasons we will support the Bill. We support it because it is giving to the new Minister an area of administration which is extraordinarily important and which the Senate has said is particularly important. Honourable senators will recall that when the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution brought in its report we carried an unusual rider to that report, saying that the report was commended to the Government for urgent consideration. That recommendation was carried unanimously in the Senate. 
The Senate therefore has impressed upon the Government the need for the immediate consideration of an environmental report. I enthusiastically support this measure if it means that the views of the Senate are going to be taken into immediate and exclusive ministerial jurisdiction. But there is another matter in this field. Already the Commonwealth has been very laggard in its approach to this question. The Water Pollution Committee visualised what was developing. We inspected the legislative movement in the various States which were legislating to the best of their ability in the fields of environmental control. We hoped that the Commonwealth would move quickly so that we could equate with Commonwealth legislation the legislative movement in the States and that we could co-ordinate the lot and come up with a national plan which would embody the aspirations of the States and the Commonwealth. No Minister had that area under his exclusive jurisdiction. If this appointment will enable that to be done then I think the gratitude of the Senate is owing to the Government, provided that the Minister makes this a matter of urgent consideration. 
Today I think a statement was made in northern New South Wales about the control of the basin of the Darling River. The head of a conservation authority - I think a voluntary body - pointed out that because of constitutional difficulties the control of the waters of the Darling flowing from one Slate to another was beyond the constitutional ability of either of the States involved and would require attention by some authority beyond the individual States. Obviously that highlights the need for immediate Commonwealth intervention in this field. That was the view of the Water Pollution Committee - no doubt it was the view of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution - and it was the view of the Senate. I hope our views will be translated into Government administrative action by the appointment of a Minister and by his devotion immediately to this problem as one of the major areas for his immediate ministerial attention. For those reasons we support the Bill. We urge upon the Government and the Prime Minister that he contemplate the appointment of an additional Minister in this place and certainly, alternatively, that 2 of the proposed Assistant Ministers be appointed to this place even though it is beyond the immediate concept of appointing Assistant Ministers only to members of the Cabinet. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (3.13) - Listening to  Senator Byrne,  who is an old Senate colleague of mine, some 7 or 8 minutes ago when he arrived at his peroration by saying: '1 now come to the end of my speech' I was rather hopeful. Even though the conclusion took another 7 or 8 minutes to reach I think his whole argument was specious. During the last 48 hours in the corridors of this Parliament a colleague of mine from the Government side of the Senate said in his normal saturnine sort of way, in the context of this Bill, that the last effective action which was taken against Ministers of State was when Thomas Wentworth had his head cut off as a result of the action of Parliament. I think this is a rather cruel and harsh judgment on Ministers of State. There are other effective ways of dealing with them. I am informed by people of psychic inclination in this Parliament that if one walks around the corridors in the still hours of the night when Parliament has risen one will find cleaners and other people around here who say that they have seen ghosts. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACKNo. These are the ghosts of Ministers who go around making strangling noises as they try to get the bowstrings off their throats. It is not a question of going to the harshness and the problems of the 17th century when Parliament dealt with Thomas Wentworth. There are other systems for dealing with Ministers of State. I rely simply on the psychic experience of the cleaners of Parliament House. I want to make my position regarding Ministers of State perfectly clear notwithstanding the rhetoric of  Senator Byrne.  I would not have a Minister of State or any Assistant Minister inside this chamber. I think that the Senate is a place where there should not be any Ministers of State. 
You heard my qualification. I said, 'accepting that principle'. 
Well, as far as I am concerned, whether we go back to the seventeenth century, whether we have to involve ourselves in the middle twentieth century - I do not put it any closer than that - whether people go around trying to untangle the bowstrings around their throats in the still hours in Parliament House or whether they go around like King Charles holding their heads under their arms wondering whether they have been cut off or not, it does not matter. The point is that the House of Representatives is the house of government, and that is where I believe the Ministers of State should all be. I can see  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Wright  wincing at this. I am ready to put up with  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Wright  but I am not prepared to put up with a bevy of Assistant Ministers in this place. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! I would be obliged if the honourable senator would return to the subject of the Bill. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACKDo not worry,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I have control of myself. I consider that the Bill before us at the present moment is a matter of minor consideration as far as the Senate is concerned, because the House of Representatives is the house of government. If they wish to debate the parliamentary system in the House of Representatives they can do so, but it is a function and a responsibility of a senator standing in his place here, in the division of constitutional responsibilities which clearly exists between the Senate and the House of Representatives, as  Senator Byrne  has mentioned, to ensure that at least some expression of opinion about these Ministers of State should be adduced here in the Senate, and I propose to do so. I propose to do it on the basis of the generality of the problem that is in front of us. I do this because, however wearisome it may be to honourable senators who are present now, I wish to take honourable senators back to the rise of the parliamentary function. 
The struggle which has enabled Parliament to exist in the twentieth century has been a struggle between the attempted domination of the Crown over Parliament and the determination of Parliament to resist the domination of the Crown. Two factors are involved in this. When power was represented by the Crown, as it was in the formative years of parliamentary growth, Parliament struggled to resist the dominance of the Crown over Parliament. On the other hand, there was an intermediate period in a civil war in England when Parliament became supreme and the Crown was eliminated. Parliament attempted to govern by a committee. By the particular genius of the parliamentary system there has grown up a system of ebb and flow and a test between the dominance of the Crown on the one side and the dominance of the Parliament on the other. When Parliament becomes dominant and attempts to usurp executive power then the process of government fails. On the other hand, when the Crown becomes dominant Parliament becomes a cipher. 
I suggest that involved in this Ministers of State Bill which we have before us at the present moment is the very essence of the struggle by which Parliament has risen into the situation where it must rule but not govern. In the context of that aphorism of mine, let us look at where the decision rests, whether the Parliament governs or rules - it is in the context of the Bill that comes before the Senate at the present moment - bearing in mind that the area of government in the bicameral system that we have in Australia is in the House of Representatives and the area of review is in the Senate. Let me go back a bit further. The real struggle for parliamentary rule, as we know it at the present moment, arose in the time of his late Majesty King George III, who made the last struggle in historical terms to assert the dominance over Parliament by the Crown. It was in this struggle that there emerged in the United States of America a new concept of government. That was the Constitution of the United States of America, whereby an attempt was made to separate the power of the executive and the power of the Congress. 
For some curious reason, which i shall elaborate in a moment, the problem we have in Australia at the present moment is that we are in an intermediate stage in government where we have hanging over us part of the continuing struggle of the late eighteenth century and the beginning of the nineteenth century. The problem is the equipoise that has to be achieved between government of the Crown and the rule of the Parliament. I am quite willing to support the Bill, because it relates to the House of Representatives - provided we do not get any more cuckoos in the nest here. 

 Ministers of State Bill 

Wright and  Senator Cotton  who are sitting on the ministerial benches at the present moment know perfectly well what I am talking about. The Senate has to evolve in a context where it is not grafted into the circumstances and existence of the House of Representatives. I shall deal with the subject that relates to the Ministers of State Bill and the statement that has been made that some Assistant Ministers will be provided. I ask: What is the Crown in Australia in 1971? The Crown is observable and distinguishable in the United Kingdom. It is accepted in the United Kingdom because the Crown performs a positive role in the constitutional procedures in the United Kingdom. Every Minister, whether he be a Minister of the British Labour Party or a Minister of the Conservative Party, which is the present ruling Party in the United Kingdom, observes the dominance and pre-eminence of the Crown as the area of neutrality holding the balance of power in the Parliament in London. But this does not exist in Australia, because there is a new component in the system of government in Australia which, over the last 20 years, is an area of power that is not the power of the Crown as it has been historically understood. It is no good your reeling like that,  Senator Wright,  whether you are bored with this or not. 

 Ministers of State Bill 1 753 first thing. The next part of this power structure comprises the Ministers who are taken from the Parliament and embedded for the purpose of Government inside the permanent structure of the bureaucracy. This is the executive government. It is not the Crown which is involved in constitutional government in Australia today, as it is historically understood in the United Kingdom at present. It is not the circumstance in which there is a division of power between the executive and the Government clearly demarked by the Constitution of the United States of America. What is involved in Australia today is a new structure altogether. 
That is what is happening here.  Senator Murphy  should not be so gleeful about this because I will come back to it in a moment. This is the problem with this Bill because with the ruling Prime Minister and an increase in the Ministry and the appointment of Assistant Ministers, there exists a majority against the ruling party inside the Parliament. In other words, the executive component of government which has divorced itself from the Crown pays little regard to the authority of the Crown. This is demonstrated by the fact that  His Excellency  the Governor-General felt it 12 May 1971 incumbent upon him at an earlier stage in this new Ministry to draw attention to the fact that the rights of the Crown had to be protected. The facts are that with the growth of the intrusion of the central bureaucracy in manipulating and manoeuvring the Government, the ruling Party today has taken control of Government out of the hands of Parliament and has embedded it in the central bureaucracy which is a marriage between the ministry and the bureaucracy. 
These are harsh words, perhaps, but I believe they do not concern the Senate. They concern the House of Representatives which is the House of Government, and if the House of Representatives wants to embark on this system it is all the more important that the Senate does not lend itself to this device because in the rule of Parliament, not the government of Parliament or government by Parliament, if the Senate lends itself to this device, and it acknowledges this device, it is all the more important and vital that the Senate should institute a system by which parliamentary rule can be maintained in this country. Therefore, I make no apologies for these generalities with which I am dealing at the present moment. The institution of Parliament operates under a system that has been devised, and is being maintained and widely supported under which we provide a House of Government, the House of Representatives. But by the marriage of the components of ministerial responsibility in the House of Government and the bureaucracy there exists a new power altogether. It is not the conceptual power of the Crown holding the balance which emerged in the 19th century in the United Kingdom. We have an untramelled uncontrolled power in the House of Representatives which is not subject to any control except by electoral devices and, with some constitutional powers, it is able to control the electoral devices. 
Therefore, there is a responsibility on the Senate clearly and unequivocally, if the rule of Parliament is to be maintained, to see that the rule of Parliament is maintained by the exercise of will and judgment of honourable senators who compose the Senate. I am not making this a challenge to the House of Representatives. What 1 am trying to do is illustrate to honourable senators in the clearest and most positive terms I can that emerging in Australia today are elements by which the rule of Parliament can be submerged and prostituted, if it is the will of any Prime Minister, so that we get a marriage between the permanent centre of bureaucracy and the majority in the Parliament which can dominate the ruling party. I have no objection to supporting this Bill because it is a Bill that originates in the House of Government and if this is the path upon which the House of Government, the House of Representatives, embarks and wishes to proceed, it is all the more important that the Senate which is, I believe, the repository of constitutional power in Australia, should make its views known. I make my views known as a senator who understands that the constitutional proprietories of this country can only be maintained by the Senate since the House of Representatives has abdicated its responsibilities because it has not clearly discerned the path upon which it has embarked and has lent itself to the process by which it can achieve this marriage between the central bureaucracy and the Parliament. 
I read a most remarkable statement in the Press the other day. Whether it was a truthful reporting of what was said or not, I do not know; from what authority it came or what its origin was, T do not know. But it was reported that the circumstances that caused the pressure of business the other day in the House of Representatives, or in another place, if I may use the proprieties of parliamentary terminology, were that the departmental advisers had not come up with the Bills: and, secondly, as a variation of this, that the Parliamentary counsel were not able to draft the Bills. Whatever the reason for the pressure of business, I do not believe this to be true because it is my information, which I believe can be substantiated, that most of the legislation that came into the House of Government the other day had been prepared and had been agreed to at least 6 or 7 weeks ago. However, that is not the point. The point I wish to make to honourable senators is that the excuse for the circumstances which existed in the House of Government, the House of Representatives, was an excuse that the Bills had not emerged from the bureaucracy. In terms of parliamentary constitutionality, I have always believed that instructions for Bills to be prepared were given by Ministers of State. But there emerges in this significant statement that there is no policy direction from the Minister of State level; instead there is a policy direction emerging from the other end of the tunnel. 
Having said that, I shall conclude on what I believe to be an elementary lesson in constitutional propriety as to the function of government of Australia today, namely, that there is in reality no existence of the Crown as we have historically understood it. There has been interposed between the Crown, as we have historically understood it, and the Parliament as we have historically understood it, a new power altogether. That power is the power of the bureaucracy or the power emerging from the needs of individuals composing the Ministry. A temporary marriage of convenience between the infallibility of the bureaucracy and the temporary needs of the people who can be drawn from Parliament is a new and damaging power in the concept of whether Parliament should rule. That is the power of the Executive. 
Having given indications that 1 would not pursue that any further I do not wish any honourable senator who sits on your left,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  to be encouraged by any words that I have said, because there exists another power again, namely, the power of a party caucus that can come to decisions and, as a party caucus, enforce its unilateral decisions on a portion of the Parliament composed of the party's temporary representatives in the Parliament and thereby attempt to enforce its views on the bureaucracy. I do not put it in any stronger terms than those. I must say that  Sir Robert  Menzies, who was Prime Minister of Australia, always refused in the Government Parties room the right of a caucus to enforce decisions on it. As he said from time to time, he was a parliamentarian to his boot heels; and he was. 
I would be loath, sorry and unhappy if the day arrived when at least one party to the Parliament allowed itself to develop into a caucus. At the same time I deprecate the capacity of another section of the Parliament to vote separately, secretly and hurriedly to enforce its will on the Party and marry itself to the bureaucracy in order to impose its will on the community. I feel very strongly about this. I feel that it is the thin edge of the wedge on the side of politics to which I subscribe and on the Party I support and which I have supported for the whole of my adult life, that there should be interposed into the area of Parliament a means by which the Executive could begin to dominate the ruling Party. 
I see the Bill before the Senate in these terms: If there is an increase in the number of Ministers of State, plus the addition of assistant Ministers or however one likes to describe them, the situation which will arise will be a compliment in a curious kind of way to the Socialist concept that there has to be a caucus which will overrule Parliament and dominate it. I am a parliamentarian. I like to think, much in the terms of  Sir Robert  Menzies, that I am a parliamentarian to my boot heels. But pre-eminently I am a senator to my boot heels. Now I can see with great sorrow and an enormous amount of apprehension that we are moving into an area where there is a new component of power, namely, the convenient marriage of Ministers and the bureaucracy, by which Parliament will be overruled. This can be prevented only by the existence of a Senate that is willing to accept the norms of parliamentary rule as they have grown up in English speaking countries over the past 300 or 400 years, and by learning the lessons of the past. For simple convenience - I put it at no lower level than that - the introduction of this Bill is another and further step towards the prostitution of parliamentary rule. I issue this warning to my colleagues. 
 - The Australian Democratic Labor Party, in common with all parties of the Senate, supports this Bill. There are one or two matters I should like to raise, and the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  may be kind enough in his reply to the second reading debate to inform me in the areas in which I am uncertain. I take it from reading the Minister's second reading speech that the international agreement in relation to price virtually collapsed because of factors of rapid change in world supplies and production of wheat. When it was decided to renegotiate the International Wheat Agreement it was also decided that the price fixing mechanism which was built into the structure under the previous Agreement should not be built into the new structure. Obviously the whole purpose of an agreement such as this is to regulate supply and demand and the availability of supplies, all culminating in the avaiability of a commodity at a certain price. I ask the Minister: Is it the purport of the new arrangement that world supplies of wheat shall be kept under constant scrutiny and if the price is not written in by way of formula - that complex formula of the last agreement - it shall in some way, by the control of supply and demand, be fixed in those terms? The Minister might be good enough to explain to me if this is the new type of mechanism which is contemplated in the agreement. 
The other matter to which I refer is contained in that part of the Minister's second reading speech which states: 
It was against this background that the recent negotiating conference was held in Geneva. Those exporting countries which considered they had been disadvantaged by the operation of the Inter national Grains Arrangement were reluctant to accept new commitments with respect to prices under any new agreement. 
May I take it from that that although there were particular reasons which outlawed the price mechanism in the new agreement there will apparently be no price mechanism at all in future agreements in view of the attitude of the countries referred to by the Minister in his second reading speech? Are we to take it that in future the international price of this grain will be determined by international control over supply and demand and that any proposal in the future to write in a price mechanism control formula related to varying qualities of wheat has permanently, been abandoned? If the Minister would be good enough to reply to those questions I would indicate that the Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill. 
by leave - I rise merely to indicate the attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. We support this motion- 
Yes. We support this motion that a message be sent to the House of Representatives. We have had a policy on this matter, namely, that a national disaster organisation should be set up, with a permanent secretariat at Canberra, to anticipate national disasters and to provide against them. For that reason, we enthusiastically support the motion moved by  Senator Murphy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Social Environment the following matter - The content, form and presentation of the Information Section of telephone directories with a view to - 
an improved selection and dissection of postal, telephone and telegraphic material; and 
a more modern and more functional lay-out, to facilitate easier reference to the information desired.  lt is questionable whether the Standing Committee on Social Environment, which embraces within the ambit of its functions a consideration of matters related to communications, is the most appropriate body to look at a matter of this character. It has been suggested that a more appropriate body would be the Publications Committee which is established under standing order 36 and which can sit jointly with a similar committee of the House of Representatives. Unfortunately, although that may be the most appropriate body, it is not possible to have a reference of this character directed to that Committee.  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson were good enough to discuss this matter with me. We were in concord that, although the Publications Committee would be the appropriate body, there is no way of referring this matter to that Committee. In those circumstances I feel that there is no alternative but to pursue the motion in the terms in which it has been moved and to seek to have this matter referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment. 
I do not propose to extrapolate at any length on this matter. There is probably no publication which is resorted to more frequently than a telephone directory. We are all familiar with problems with telephone directories. These are not major problems but they create an irritating situation and cause personal frustration. I do not have to go into details to indicate the complaints which so often have been directed against the information pages of the telephone directory. The directory contains a mass of rather indigestible material of a telegraphic and telephonic nature and much postal information. Some of this information seems to be quite irrelevant to a telephone directory. It seems that the directory is used merely as a vehicle for much postal information. 
We have seen, in the publication and presentation of annual reports of public companies and government departments, new forms of presentation, with more modern layouts and better methods whereby the information contained can be assessed and assimilated. Colour designations, colour differentials and things of that nature are employed. I see no reason why some expert assistance should not be availed of, and modern means of presentation used, in the the compilation of the information pages in the telephone directory. 1 do not think that there is much more to say. This is a problem of which we are all conscious. There is no-one who has not, at times, been irritated and frustrated when having to resort to the information pages in the directory. A committee of this nature, having departmental officers before it and perhaps being able to call in aid the technical advice of publication and printing experts, may well be able to come up with some format which will be much more functional, which will show a proper dissection of information by the use of colour and more modern presentation techniques, and generally will soothe the shattered nerves of members of the Australian nation who have resort to the telephone directory. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is the motion seconded? 
- The Australian Democratic Labor Party has the opportunity for one of its supporters to speak a second time in this debate, which is in a limited field because of the direction the debate has taken in terms of the speech of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman).  The terms of the amendment moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party are very specific in relation to the first part of it. I shall deal only with the first part. It states: . but the Senate expresses its concern at the Government's mishandling of the Fill purchase . . . 
The attitude of the DLP has always been that we have never attempted to dogmatise on the technical competence or efficiency of the Fill aircraft. At no stage have we done so. I know that my friends of the Opposition have always criticised the competence and efficiency of the Fill and they have criticised the whole contract on that basis. We have always confined our criticism to the terms of purchase and to the absence of adequate accounting controls which has made necessary renegotiation or talks to part renegotiate the contract. I draw the attention of the Senate to a motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  on 17th September 1968. That motion reads: 
That there be laid on the Table of the Senate all documents (or copies thereof) which constituted the original arrangements made by the Australian Government for the purchase of Fill aircraft and all subsequent variations in the arrangements (with the exception of any specification or reference which would prejudice military security). 
To that resolution the DLP through myself moved this amendment: and that on such tabling if it then appears to the Senate the documentation is of such volume or complexity that detailed examination is necessary for complete evaluation, the documents be referred by the Senate to the Joint Committee of Public Accounts for examination and subsequent report to the Senate and that the Committee be directed to advise whether at all stages of the committal of public moneys adequate provision was made for the protection of the Consolidated Revenue Fund.' 
In speaking to the motion I said: 
The amendment to which I am addressing myself, proposed by the Democratic Labor Party, has a similar purpose. An investigation is contemplated not to discover whether the Fill is a particularly good aircraft or suitable for the purpose for which it is sought. That is not the purpose of the contemplated investigation, except perhaps in an indirect way as it might be reflected in the financial aspects of the whole project. We want to know what we think the Public Accounts Committee is particularly designed to discover; that is, the degree of adequacy or inadequacy of the financial control exercised in a matter which requires an enormous appropriation of the Consolidated Revenue. In such a case there should have been continuous Treasury and departmental scrutiny of the appropriations as they mounted from day to day and year to year, and from variation to variation. There may have been this type of financial scrutiny. lt may have been continuous and efficient, but we do not know that. The object of the exercise is to put into the hands of a competent investigatory body the material which would enable it to discover and report to the Senate whether such control has been exercised competently and continuously. ' 
That has always been the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party. Insofar as the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party confines itself to the Government's mishandling of the Fill purchase the DLP supports that part of the amendment, and also we support the second part. It is not that we are standing here criticising the competence or the efficiency of the Fill as a technical exposition or anything of that nature. We have been concerned all along at what appears to be a certain looseness in the accounting control in the whole of this enormous purchase which has now gone on from year to year. 
We want this matter referred to the Public Accounts Committee with all the documents to see whether there has been that type of lack of control and if so whether it can be avoided in the future. It is for that reason and not because we join in the criticism of the technical competence of the aircraft that we support this part of the amendment. We feel that there has been an absence of adequate financial control - at least there is a prima facie presumption of this - which requires complete investigation. That is what we sought, but unfortunately it has not taken place. I merely want to put on record that we are not criticising the Fill as a military aircraft, nor are we criticising its tactical suitability for the purpose for which it is designed. Our attitude is based purely on that part of the motion which purports to criticise the mode of arrangement followed in the purchase of the aircraft. That is why the DLP supports the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Bishop's amendment)  be added. 
The position of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in relation to both the Bill before the Senate and the amendments moved by the Opposition through  Senator Wilkinson  was enunciated by  Senator Kane  when he foreshadowed certain amendments which the Democratic Labor Party will be moving in respect of this Bill and the associated Bill. As honourable senators know, 3 matters are being considered together in the course of this debate. They are the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill, the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill and the motion on the notice paper in the name of  Senator Murphy  stating: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the following matter - Measures to alleviate the cost price squeeze on primary producers and to overcome the plight of the primary industries. 
I want to indicate the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party in relation to matters which  Senator Kane  did not advert to specifically. As the honourable senator told the Senate, our projected amendment to the first Bill contemplates the creation of a commission of inquiry into the whole structure of the rural economy. 
That is a fair question. We have spelt out on many occasions and in many documents and statements the reasons which prompt us to refer the whole structure of the rural economy to an expert commission of inquiry. We do this knowing, firstly, that there is a crisis in the rural industries requiring immediate relief and alleviation. More than that, there is a total movement in the whole structure of rural economies throughout the world, but particularly in this country. There is going to be a major readjustment, especially in Australia where up to this time primary industries have provided the bulk of our export income and have been responsible for the settlement of our people over vast areas of this great continent. But those things are changing. They are changing so dramatically and so fundamentally and in such a way that obviously the mere attempt to redress the immediate difficulties of a particular industry is not going to solve the problem. 
There must be immediate relief for those industries and the people engaged in them but there must also be some attempt to examine the whole rural economy to see how it is going to adjust to the new world. That is going to take a long time. But, of course, this is such a major problem - it is going to involve the restructuring of our economy for many years to come - that it would be foolish to presume that the suggested commission of inquiry would not have to be an inquiry of great magnitude and of considerable length. That should not deter us from embarking on it. If we were going to rely only on this to redress the immediate difficulties of primary industry I think  Senator Webster's  intervention would be well warranted. It would be an unreal approach. But that is not the position. This really is an attempt to make an assessment of the role which the rural sector is going to play in the whole of Australia's national economic life. We have said that it should cover the period at least up to the year 2000. We think that this should be done. 
After all, what have we seen? We have seen rural industry after rural industry moving from crisis to crisis - a hole being plugged up here and then something breaking out in another place. That cannot be allowed to continue. Obviously this is going to be a continuing process, resulting in a continuing drain on the national economy and revenue, unless the problem is tackled at the base, right at the grass roots. This is the objective behind the proposal we put forward. 
This amendment is in accordance with the terms of the approach we made to all primary industries in Australia and to many other areas, including academics operating in the field of agricultural economics, major primary institutions and other organisations of that character. We have received very many replies and they now are being collated, assembled and digested. 1 can say that there is considerable and wide and diversified support from many areas - from individual primary producers, from primary producer organisations and from academics, for an inquiry of this character. They say that it is necessary and that it is the way this problem must be tackled. Therefore we are not only justified in our proposition, we are comforted and encouraged to pursue it. 
We will indicate to the Government in due time the course we think it should take. We will do this when we have been able to assemble, collate and digest this information and to present the views of so many organisations, institutions and people to the Government for its consideration. As I said, what prompts us to do this is the need for a basic investigation of the whole structure of the rural economy. The Australian Democratic Labor Party hopes that this investigation will be embarked upon in terms of the Vernon Committee's report, though it hopes that such an investigation will meet with a much more practical response than that magnificant investigation and report and that its recommendations will be implemented. 
 No. I must say that if I were to rely on the fate of the Vernon Committee's report I would not approach this matter with a great deal of confidence. It is obvious that the condition of these industries is so dire that something must be done. My Party feels that ultimately the Government and those who do not see my Party's way at the moment will come down to an acceptance of its proposition as the only real, practical, forward looking proposition encompassing the whole of the rural economy. I have spelt that out in some detail because of the motion of  Senator Murphy  that is being debated at the same time as the 2 Bills before the Senate that the cost-price squeeze on primary producers be referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. The Democratic Labor Party opposes this proposition for 2 reasons. Firstly, because it does not think that such a body would be equipped to undertake an investigation of such a major character. I say that with due respect to the honourable senators who comprise the Committee. I appreciate that there are some who are skilled in the practical application of agricultural methods, but there are a number who would make no claim to expertise in that field or to expertise in any field which might give such a committee an authoritative status which might make its report worth while and acceptable. 
That is one reason why the Democratic Labor Party could not find it possible to support this proposition. The second reason is, of course, that the motion which  Senator Kane  has indicated will be moved as an amendment after the disposition of the amendment which has been propounded by  Senator Wilkinson  includes a provision for an examination by the Democratic Labor Party's method of inquiry the thing which  Senator Murphy's  motion proposes should be examined by his method, namely, the question of the costprice squeeze. If honourable senators were to refer to the circulated copy of the Democratic Labor Party's proposed amendment they would find that, under the heading of rural producers costs, it takes into account the Australian tariff, Government policies and other factors tending to raise costs in Australia, the incidence of railway freight on rural producers in comparison with urban charges, road transport and the wage structure of the rural economy. Obviously it would involve a much more comprehensive exercise than the one contemplated by  Senator Murphy  and it would be undertaken by anybody which, if it is created, would be much more skilled, would have a greater command of expertise, and would have greater administrative and other resources at its command. We could therefore expect a very much more comprehensive and valuable investigation and a much more worth while report to come from such a body. The Democratic Labor Parly would much prefer, if it is a matter of preference, the type of examination it has suggested of the cost-price structure of the rural industry. For that reason the Democratic Labor Party will support its own proposal on this matter and will not find itself in accordance with the motion put forward in this regard by  Senator Murphy. 
The amendment which has been moved by  Senator Wilkinson  is, in its terms, extremely drastic. It is common ground in this chamber that there is a crisis in the rural industry. This fact is acknowledged by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  and it is acknowledged by every honourable senator who has addressed himself to the matters which are now before the chamber. The fact that there is a crisis means that there is something which is calling for immediate relief and alleviation. The amendment which has been propounded by the Opposition is in the terms that the Bill be withdrawn. That is not merely an expression of opinion by the Opposition; it is an attitude of the Opposition. Its attitude is: 'We want this. If we cannot get this then we think the Bill should be withdrawn and the whole of the proposed scheme should fall to the ground'. That would be a most drastic proposition to propound. It is a most dangerous thing to put forward. It would have dire consequences on the rural industry. After all, this chamber will be rising within the next 24 hours or perhaps the next couple of days. If this legislation is not passed at this stage and the Parliament does not assemble until August many primary producers will go to the wall in the meantime. That would be the inevitable and irrefutable consequence of acceptance of the amendment which the Australian Labor Party has seriously propounded in this chamber. I hope that, even at this stage, on reflection the Opposition will consider withdrawing this amendment or at least propounding it in different terms, because it amounts to nothing less than a betrayal of the rural industries either for some reason which may be theoretical or for political purposes. On that I do not dogmatise. But I think that every rural producer would be dismayed if this amendment were brought to his attention, and he would be confounded if in any way, due to the support of any group in this chamber, it should be carried. 
All I can say is that the Opposition has put this proposition forward knowing that no party with any sense of responsi bility - I think our Party at least must be accepted as a Party of responsibility - could under any circumstances, and more particularly under these circumstances, be expected to support it. I can only feel that something like that must have actuated the Opposition. Members of the Opposition do not expect their amendment to be carried. They would be terrified by the consequences of their own action, and they are relying on the sense of responsibility of the Democratic Labor Party to destroy an amendment that they do not really want to be carried. That is a very serious position and. as I say, whether the Opposition considered the consequences of its action or not I do not know, but I think that on reflection it should even at this late stage be prepared to withdraw the amendment so that at least such relief as this Bill propounds could be made available without any risk or probability of denial to the primary producers who so tragically need it today. 
The other matter to which I wish to refer is the proposed amendment which  Senator Kane  has indicated we will move to the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill. To answer  Senator Webster's  earlier intervention, this amendment propounds a method for the immediate relief of the primary producer as against the idea of long term investigation and relief which was embodied in our first amendment, to which I have referred. This amendment is in 3 stages. Paragraph (a) states: 
That the most rapid and most effective emergency relief to the primary producers would be achieved by the Commonwealth establishing a National Rural Finance Corporation outside the banking system; such Corporation to be financed by the Commonwealth to fund and re-finance rural debts, making provision for interest free non-redemption periods of the debts so funded; 
That is what we think. I do not go into any details on that paragraph at this stage. It has been discussed before. We are of the opinion that only such a loan organisation, properly equipped and relevant to the cyclical type of production of the rural industries, can really, on the proper terms and in the proper way, provide the necessary finance not only for the immediate, urgent and emergent relief for the rural industries but for their on-going finance. What we contemplate is a completely new method under a completely new corporation to provide finance in the rural economy. 
 It may take some money. After all, there was very heavy capitalisation of the Australian Industry Development Corporation and there has been very heavy capitalisation of the wool scheme. Anything like this will take heavy capitalisation. But in matters relating to the rural industries the Parliament has been prepared to capitalise and to provide public revenue in great sums. We propose a way in which it might be done with very much more effect and very much more value to the industry. 
We would not have to capitalise a lending institution to that figure immediately. I am sure of that, and I think the honourable senator knows that the immediate loan demands of the rural industries are nothing of that nature. We would not have to capitalise a lending institution immediately to the extent of the ultimate loan level at which finance may be required. Paragraph (b) of our amendment states: 
That such Corporation should be especially structured to the cylical nature of rural production and should provide on-going finance by way of low interest loans over a repayment period up to 25 years; 
This amendment has the 2 paragraphs which I have quoted and a third paragraph. When this amendment is formally presented and comes before the Senate for decision,I will ask leave of the Senate that paragraphs (a) and (b) be taken together as 1 question and that the third part of the proposition be presented as a separate question for registration of a separate vote by the Senate. That third paragraph states: 
That the Commonwealth Government should retire from the field of estate duties thus granting relief from the dual incidence of succession duties imposed by both the Commonwealth and State Governments. 
There has already been a vote taken on that but I feel that this is a matter on which there should be insistence and reinsistence. Therefore I trust that when the occasion arises the Senate will be prepared to grant leave so that those who may not find themselves disposed or able to accept the first propositions embodied in paragraphs(a) and (b) may well find themselves disposed and able to accept the proposition contained in paragraph (c). For that reason we hope that the Senate will give an opportunity to have the two aspects of the means of relief presented separately. The Australian Democratic Labor Party therefore presents a short term solution and proposes a long term solution. I think that the rural industries are deserving of no less. They have immediate problems requiring urgent attention. They have long range problems of a most fundamental character which most of us will agree require deep examination and long range solutions. The Parliament would be doing less than its duty if it merely tried to heal these wounds by a process of healing by first intention without examining the base troubles at the very bottom of the structure of the rural economy. The Democratic Labor Party has continuously pressed in this field and it will continue to press and we trust that upon this occasion we will get support from both sides of the Senate for our propositions which go to the long range solution of the problems and the short range alleviation of the present crisis in rural industries. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister a question upon notice which, I may say, has a particularly new significance in the light of announcements made in Britain yesterday regarding Britain's entry into the European Common Market. The question is as follows: 
Will the Senate be provided with an opportunity to debate the consequences to Australian trade of the emergence of the European Common Market, more particularly in the event of Great Britain joining it, and the resulting need to develop new export markets particularly in South East Asia? 
I agree with the honourable senator that this question and particularly the answer to it have been caught up by events. Three or 4 days ago we read with great significance that the United Kingdom Government's chief representative was completely despondent but this morning we read in the Press that it is almost certain that Bri tain will now enter the EEC. For what it is worth I will give the answer to the question. It reads: 
Since there is a motion on the Senate Notice Paper concerning the import levy systems being introduced by the United Kingdom, it would seem an appropriate time when this motion comes before the Senate for the honourable senator to raise general matters relating to the future of Australia's trade with the United Kingdom, particularly in the event of the United Kingdom joining the EEC. 
I think we have to wait a few more days to find out whether Britain will join the EEC. 


 Mr Acting Deputy President the Australian Democratic Labor Party indicated yesterday through  Senator Kane  that it would move an amendment to the motion, that this Bill be now read a second time, after the disposal of the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson.  That position has now arisen.I move the following amendment: At the end of motion add - but the Senate is of the opinion that there should be constituted an expert Commission of Inquiry into the whole structure of the rural economy which would examine its importance, its role and its function in the Australian economy, and in particular examine the following subjects: (a) Expected export demand for Australian rural products, taking into account: 
the policies of the European Economic Community; 
the possibility of Australian associate membership of EEC; 
reciprocal trading agreements on the basis of securing constant markets for rural production by tariff concessions to consumer countries ex porting secondary products to Australia (Japan in particular); (4) the possibility of a South East Asian Community; 
Rural producers' costs, taking into account: 
the Australian tariff; 
government policies and other factors tending to raise costs In Australia; 
incidence of railway freights on rural producers (in comparison with urban charges); 
road transport; 
the wage structure of the rural economy; 
Finance 
Financial structure required to support necessary changes and the service and finance for such purpose. 
Policy, taking into account: 
whether there is a case for permanent or temporary subsidies from the urban to the rural sector; 
whether any aggregation or re organisation of present rural holdings is necessary, and if so, whether  it should be achieved by independent action by rural producers, or through government-assisted schemes; 
expected future rural labour force required; 
rural education including re-training for any farmers facing displacement; 
establishment of decentralised industrial towns which would offer employment within that region. 
I do not propose to address myself to this amendment at any length. The 2 Bills were discussed together and the motion which stood in the name of  Senator Murphy  was, by agreement of the Senate, permitted to be debated in conjunction with the Bills. That motion was for a reference of the state of the rural economy to a committee of this Senate. There is no need for me to expatiate at any length on the content of the amendment now before us. I have only one or two comments to make. If this debate has highlighted anything it has highlighted the confusion that exists in the minds of those who have directed their attention to this problem, to its depth and, more particularly, to what the remedies are. It is precisely because of this that we seek to have an expert commission appointed to discover what is the depth of the problem, over what area it spreads and what are the possible solutions. 
The need for this commission has been highlighted today because of the announcement yesterday that Britain is almost certain to join the European Economic Community. While the newspapers as yet have not had the opportunity of canvassing the implications of that entry, from what I heard on the radio this morning rather deep dismay is expected in the Australian rural industries because apparently almost complete priority and preference will be given in the EEC to the agricultural products from within that community. We also have a new situation in regard to the American-Australian-Cuban situation relating to the supply of farm machinery in that the South American republics which are members of the Organisation of American States are pressing the United States in the circumstances for the rescission - or apparently that is expected - of the Australian sugar quota on the American market. These two things illustrate just what are the additionally serious problems which are now facing the rural economy. Insofar as the first part of our resolution asks that the implications of Britain's entry into the EEC be investigated immediately and in depth, great point is lent to that reference by the developments of the last  24  hours. So for that reason we firmly commend this amendment to honourable senators. 
We have said, and we reiterate, that this is not by its nature a short term solution. But, of course, we are not dealing with a short term problem. It is a short term problem and a long term one and this part of our approach on the rural question goes to the solution of the long term problem. The amendment which we propose to move in relation to the second Bill is one which purports to deal with the short range solution to the critical situation in which the rural industries find themselves. For those reasons we commend this amendment to honourable senators and I trust it will receive the endorsement of this chamber. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity of Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister seen recent rather alarming references to the growing element of control of Australian finance companies which has been passing into the hands of foreign banks and foreign corporations? As the control of finance through these companies in Australia is completely outside the banking system and not subject to the disciplines of the Banking Act, does the Minister think that a guide line should be laid down for finance corporations as to the amount of equity capital that may be controlled outside Australia different from the guidelines operating in relation to public companies generally? If so, will he commend to the Government that this matter should be investigated because, of course, it is the finance companies outside the banking system that have a tremendous impact on the ebb and flow of credit thereby determining the economic climate of Australia? 
Yes, I have seen a recent statement in relation to the intrusion of foreign investment into a particular finance company in Australia. I am aware, as is  Senator Byrne,  that certain guidelines are provided in relation to the banking system. As to the balance of the question, I believe that this aspect of the matter would be under constant examination by the Treasurer and the Department of the Treasury. Whilst I will refer to the Treasurer the series of question put to me by the honourable senator, I am sure that these are matters that are being closely examined at the present time. 
Whilst I am on my feet, may I ask for the co-operation of the Senate to bring question time to an early conclusion if that is possible. The Senate has a lot of business on the notice paper today that we would want to get through soon. 
I rise for only a limited purpose. This Bill brings back memories of the days of the big depression in the 1930s, because the funds that already stand in the State accounts are funds that were provided by the Commonwealth Government way back in 193S, in the latter days of the depression, to enable farmers then stricken by the consequences of the depression to fund and refinance their debts. Those funds have stood in the State accounts in varying amounts in all the intervening years. Unfortunately I do not have the figures with me, but I think that in Queensland many millions of dollars accumulated interest over the intervening period. Other States - 1 instance New South Wales - have drawn more liberally on those funds, but there would in all be a tremendous amount standing to the credit of those accounts in the States; therefore it is rather salutary that the condition of primary industries has now reached a situation where - we are recapturing some of the funds provided by legislation in the days of the depression. That in itself is an indication of the seriousness, depth and extent of the rural crisis. 
I rise more particularly because of a comment .made by  Senator Wilkinson  when speaking on the previous Bill. He pointed out that our proposal that the whole of the problems of the rural economy, be referred to an expert commission of inquiry involved a long range investigation and was not a short term solution to these problems. I merely want to point out that we realised that, and we stated very definitely that we thought the rural economy was in such a condition that it had to be investigated from the bottom to the top over the whole depth of its structure but that we realised also that that would necessarily be a long range investigation. And, as we said, the intention was to project the future of the rural economy up to the year 2000 and as that would necessarily be rather poor consolation to farmers in financial difficulties it is for that reason that on the other leg of our presentation we submitted the propositions which are contained in the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Kane  and seconded by  Senator Little. 
These are the immediate short term solutions: The availability of finance through a specifically structured finance corporation adapted to the cyclical nature of the rural industries, the relief from estate duty of rural producers in particular - and perhaps everybody in general - and that estate duty should cease to be a field of operation of the Federal Government, and certainly the dual incidence of estate duty should be abandoned. In respect of the rural industries particularly, while more recently there was a lifting of the level of exemption from Federal estate duty in an amendment passed during the last sessional period, the hard fact of life is that the value has virtually completely fallen out of many rural properties; yet for the purpose of calculating duty on succession by death the value of the property is still assessed at a figure quite unrelated to the real market value of the property or the capacity to borrow money on it against the payment of duty. In addition to this there is the dual incidence caused by the Commonwealth and the States all attempting to collect duty from this greatly impoverished and depreciated asset. 
Our first proposition relates to a finance corporation which would fund the debts of farmers and provide finance outside the banking system in a particular way with particular solicitude and with particular equipment to equate with the demands of the rural industries. Our second proposition relates to relieving the rural producer of the attempted realisation of the only capital asset he has in life - his property - which is going to be levied twice for duty. These are the short term solutions in addition to the long term solutions we projected in our amendment to the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill. For that reason we commend the whole of this amendment to honourable senators, including the finance corporation proposal, the method of providing finance within that corporation and the abandonment of Federal estate duty. We trust that honourable senators, conscious of the real, demanding and urgent needs of the rural economy, will find in these propositions some attempt to discover a solution to the problems of the farmers and will find it possible to support them. Therefore I commend the amendment of the Democratic Labor Party to honourable senators and ask for their support. 
The Democratic Labor Party, having moved its own amendment on this matter, and it being defeated, is now faced with the amendment moved by  Senator Prowse  as a Government senator on behalf of the Country Party- 
Then on behalf of himself. I could not imagine a more worthy sponsor. Because this amendment is virtually in complete accord with the amendment moved by the Democratic Labor Party - it really brings the matter rather closer than our amendment because it wants this subject to be considered in the preparation in the Budget - we proposed to support it. There are one or two matters to which I should like to refer. This, of course, is not the first occasion in more recent times on which the question of Federal estate duty has been before the Senate. To my recollection, the matter came before the Senate in more recent times on the amendment to the Estate Duty Assessment Act which purported to raise the level of exemption. On the third reading of that Bill the Democratic Labor Party moved an amendment in these terms: 
But the Senate expresses the view that the Government should consider as soon as possible the complete elimination of Federal estate duty. 
That was an extremely reasonable amendment. It did not call for the duty to be eliminated immediately. It merely asked the Government to consider early Commonwealth retirement from that field. That amendment was supported in division by the following Government senators:  Senator Bull, Senator Buttfield, Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack,  Senator Greenwood, Senator Lawrie, Senator Lillico, Senator Prowse, Senator Webster, Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood,  Senator Wood  and  Senator Young.  It was opposed to the last man by the Australian Labor Party. 
To my recollection, the reason advanced by the Labor Party for its rejection on that occasion was that the amendment had been brought in hurriedly and precipitately; apparently there had not been time to consider it. Quite a long time has elapsed. The matter has been discussed on another occasion. I forget what the outcome was then. It is being discussed again, and the reason advanced today by the Australian Labor Party for the rejection of the amendment is totally different. It could not be said that this amendment has now been brought in precipitately or hurriedly. The reason which has been advanced is that the elimination of estate duty should be considered as a separate matter in the whole conspectus of Federal duties and should not merely be tagged on to a Bill of this nature or to any Bill of any other nature applying to rural industries. 

 Senator Prowse says that it is not inappropriate that it should be added to a Bill dealing with the reconstruction of primary industries because the incidence of the duty today lies most heavily on the primary producers. But quite apart from that which is a very valid reason, surely any appropriate vehicle - and no-one can say that this is inappropriate - is adequate in order to enable the Senate to present a point of view. All the Senate is being asked to do is to indicate an attitude to the incidence of estate duty in Federal hands in general terms, not on rural producers, not on urban producers or urban industrialists, but on the whole spectrum of Australian commercial and private life. The Senate is being asked to indicate that the Government should retire from the exaction of Federal estate duty. Surely that is handling the matter as  Senator Willesee  would want it handled. We are merely asking the Government to consider this over the whole area on which Federal estate duly falls. Surely that is precisely what  Senator Willesee  wants when he said that it should not be discussed in the complete and exclusive context of rural industry but over the whole of society. That is precisely what this amendment does. However, in this case it is attached ro the rural Bills because it is not inappropriate that it should be so attached. It is timely that the amendment should be attached to the Bill now before the Parliament. 
In those circumstances, rather than  Senator Willesee  advancing arguments why it is not appropriate to discuss this matter now and indicating that the Opposition will oppose the amendment, I would have thought that the Opposition would have supported this amendment because of its method of general application over the whole of industry, over the whole of life and in the realm of Federal duty. 
No, that is not the Labor Party's amendment; that was our amendment. I do not think that  Senator Cavanagh  was here when this was moved. That does not go to the Labor Party amendment at all. lt goes to our amendment. It is to delete our amendment, which has now been deleted. If the basis of  Senator Cavanagh's  objection was that this is striking at the Opposition amendment, J would hope that he might be able to support us in this matter, his objection having been removed by the explanation which I have now tended. This becomes a matter in which we could expect the support of the Opposition. I would hope that we would get the support of those honourable senators on the Government side who found it possible to support us on the last occasion. At least I think  Senator Prowse  is entitled to expect that. 
There are one or two other matters to which I should like to refer. Firstly, the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill in general principles. That is, we support the motion for the second reading of the Bill. We do not present any of our propositions as alternatives to the Bill. We merely suggest that these things could be embarked upon. To suggest that we are laying the Bill aside and replacing it with our proposition is not correct. We support the Bill and we see the need for the immediate financial aid to help alleviate the problems of the rural sector. We enthusiastically support what is contained in the Bill but we hope that other things more effective, more far reaching and more far ranging could be embarked upon by the Government also. 
I make this point: The incidence of estate duty is having a very damaging effect in rural industry. What is one of the real problems today on the land? Because of falling prices and the collapse of markets farmers are being required, or may be required, to leave their properties and that is the one thing we cannot afford. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  speaking at a gathering the other day said: 
The wool industry faces  a  condition of total insolvency. 
 He then went on to say: 
We could visualise, if something does not happen, that there could be an abandonment of properties in the western parts of Australia and that the western towns could diminish and disappear. That is a very bad prospect and it will come if men cannot be kept on their properties. 
One of the things which is requiring people to leave their properties is this tax. What happens is that if a landholder dies his estate is valued for duty purposes. This is an unreal value in terms of market saleability. The beneficiaries are required to accept that valuation and to pay duty on it. Unless the people concerned get relief they have to sell the property in order to pay the duty. Very often the property has to be sacrificed and those living on it have to leave it because it cannot be financed any longer. The abandonment of properties in the rural areas is the one thing that we dread in this country. For these reasons it is most important that every means be seized upon to try to relieve the position of the man on the land in his interests and in the national interest. 
This is one conspicuous way in which this can be done. As everyone in this chamber has adverted to the condition of prices in the rural industries, I think I am entitled to expect, and  Senator Prowse  is entitled to expect, that the amendment we are now considering will receive the support of every honourable senator in this chamber. The excuses for not supporting it must disappear. Many reasons have been advanced by the Opposition for not supporting the amendment. However, one by one the ground has been changed but still we are faced with the fact that members of the Opposition are not prepared even to suggest that the Government should retire or should consider retiring from this field of taxation. That is the stark position that now exists as a result of the speeches made by the Opposition. 
With respect to  Senator Willesee,  I cannot see that it is a stark untruth. As I understood  Senator Willesee's  submission to this place, he does not support the amendment and the Opposition does not support the amendment. He thinks that this matter should be considered more widely and at depth. I think it would be fair to say that,  Senator Willesee.  But the fact is that on every occasion when this matter has come before the Senate - on the other occasion I mentioned and on this occasion - the Opposition has set its face against the support of even the suggestion that retirement should be considered by the Government. There was an intermediate occasion to which I cannot advert because my memory rather abandons me in which the Opposition did have some proposition between the resolution I have mentioned and this resolution. What its terms were I am not able now to recall. 
However, the DLP commends this amendment. It is not our amendment. Our amendment has been defeated. But the amendment propounded by  Senator  Prowse  is in almost the same terms as ours. I hope, in view of the matter being formally raised in this House by the DLP when it received support from some Government supporters, and because the matter has again come before the Senate in the form of the present amendment I hope that it will again receive support at least in substantial numbers from all sides of this place. Then, 1 would hope that when the Government embarks upon its consideration of the Budget it will take this into account. We have had other occasions on which money could not be found. I know that the Budget moves within the circumscription of demand and the availability of revenue. However, the amendment involved in this, even if it were phased out, is not so considerable that it could not be accommodated within a new budget concept. I think it is sufficiently important for that to be done. 
It is 0.86 per cent of the total Budget. No-one can say that under no conceivable circumstances could a government frame a budget and abandon 0.86 per cent of the total available national revenue. It is inconceivable to concede that this could be a valid proposition. For those reasons we commend  Senator Prowse's  amendment. I might say that it was probably the action of the DLP in first propounding this matter in a formal way that has encouraged  Senator Prowse  to move an amendment. 
We put it up in a formal way about 2 years ago. We had support from honourable senators whose names I read out, just as we had total resistance from the Opposition benches. I. hope that that resistance will be dissipated now and that we may get a more encouraging response in the Senate and then in the Budget we may see some steps taken for the abandonment or at least for the alleviation of the incidence of this tax. I hope that the tax, if not immediately abandoned, will at least be abandoned gradually. This would be a tremendous encouragement to farmers, to agriculturists and to rural producers who are already embedded deeply in the current rural crisis. 
Clause 3 deals with the existence of regional electorates. I do not wish to speak, nor am I entitled to, on the general principles of the Bill. However, due to the absence of  Senator Wright,  who is the Minister handling this Bill-Senator Cotton acted temporarily in his position - I was taken a little by surprise at the passage of the second reading of the Bill and 
I did not realise that the Minister was closing the debate. I was looking at something else. I rise merely to say that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill and supports the principle of the regional electorate contained in clause 3. 
This is a very difficult situation. After all, one of the greatest problems in the transposition from a less sophisticated society to a more sophisticated, developed society is the absence very often of an educated elite. I do not mean that in any socially snobbish sense, but in the sense of a cadre of those who areadequately educated in order to be able to take over the self administration of a country or a territory. This is an attempt, originally by the existence of regional electorates and now by the increase in their numbers; to perpetuate that system. 
It appears to us that it is a not unreasonable concept: It is one that seems in some sense to meet adequately the requirements of a developing society, certainly of this developing society. To what extent and for how long the system will be perpetuated, we do not know. The alternative to the existence of regional electorates as spelt out by the Minister is that in the open electorates a minimum educational standard would have to be insisted upon to provide at least a distribution of the intellectual and educated ability as against the component which is given by representation of this kind from the regional electorates. 
At this stage, I would not think that would be easy to achieve, nor possibly would it be effective for a long time. If one were to set one's face against the existence of the principle of the regional electorate and to abandon it or in some way qualify it unduly, this could only have the effect ultimately of impeding the movement towards complete independence. I do not think that any protecting power would be justified in handing over independence to a country which did not have a certain component of educated people to take over the administration. 
As it is the aim and aspiration of the people of the Territory to achieve independence and as it is the aim and ambition of Australia to grant independence on the proper terms as quickly as possible and in the best interests of the people of the Ter ritory, and this measure tends in that direction to achieve that purpose, I think it is a principle worth preserving. If it is worth preserving, the number of representatives of the regional electorate should be increased in accordance with the general numerical increase contemplated by the Bill in the other areas of political representation. For those reasons, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, supports this clause and the Bill. 
Question put: 
That the clause stand as printed. 
I rise to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports these 3 Bills, namely, the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2), the Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill and the Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill. These are a necessary adjustment in view of the development of overseas financial interest and commitment to Australian industry and Australian development. I agree with  Senator Wheeldon  that Australia is now attracting a tremendous amount of overseas interest with a consequent flow of overseas capital. Whether this is in the form which I raised this morning, where foreign capital ls moving into de facto if not legal control of public companies and corporations operating in this country, or whether it is moving in by way of capital investment on the basis of loans made available we can expect the tide flowing into Australia to be even stronger and more violent. In those circumstances the protection of Australian equity should be constantly under scrutiny. We should always make sure that the ultimate control of those areas of participation which affect the fundamentals of Australian economic life do not pass out of the control of Australians or out of the hands of the Australian Government. It is indeed serious, as I indicated in a question I directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  this morning, that large blocks of the equity holdings of finance companies which are attracting overseas, investment should be in the hands of banks in Hong Kong, United States of America, Great Britain and Canada. 
Within the financial structure of our system a tremendous amount of credit control is outside the banking system and in the hands of finance and investment companies. It is of no good preventing the control of certain types of public companies from moving outside Australia if the control of this type of operation, which can be absolutely fundamental to the strength of the Australian economy, is not controlled by us. While the Democratic Labor Party supports these Bills we do join in that chorus of concern which at the moment perhaps is not altogether completely warranted in any serious way, but we always urge upon the Government that it should have constantly within its vision the necessity of keeping the strongest and clearest possible scrutiny over foreign investment in and control of Australian companies. New methods and new formulae are constantly being tried and new ingenuity is being developed to circumvent practices until some device is put into operation to preclude those practices. As far as possible the- Government must always try to be in advance of the ingenious internationalist who might try, until the law is changed or tightened, to circumvent this depredation upon our economy. With those words I indicate that the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bills. 
The legislation now before the Senate is receiving the support of all parties with some qualifications in one direction or another. One of the major criticisms has been that legislation of this character has been unduly delayed. We have witnessed over the past years in Australia, as so often happens, a developing complexity in national merchandising and in commercial operations. It is an unfortunate fact of commercial life or business life that, with the advent of more intense competition and with the necessity, because of high wages and increasing costs, to cut production costs and as far as possible to elevate profits, commercial enterprises are compelled to move in fields and in a manner which sometimes creates benefits for the trader but can have very grave disabilities for the consuming public. There is a constant battle between authorities which have the public interest at heart and the traders who legitimately have their interest at heart and in the case of companies the interest of the shareholders or the participants. There is a constant battle on one side and on the other to try to preserve equity within this range of mutual conflict. 
Now, this Bill reflects all those principles which we have seen emerging in modern 
Australian commercial life. It is not, perhaps, by accident that legislation of this character comes to this country many years after similar legislation has been in effect in other countries such as the United States, Great Britain and certain continental countries. 
The reason for that would obviously be that those societies have reached in their commercial transactions a level of sophistication that is perhaps only now being attained in Australia, and as the commercial societies lift to certain levels of sophistication legislation of this character is found necessary, and now has been found necessary in this country.  Senator Webster  asked just what benefit has accrued in the countries in which it has been operating for some years. I personally am unable to answer that question specifically but I would have imagined that it would be highly unlikely that legislation in those countries would have been allowed to continue if it had not proved effective or if the public of those countries was not satisfied that it was of some benefit. 
 I am not aware of it being abandoned. The Minister and other people have explained that similar legislation is operating in some of the major trading nations of the world, and until the proof is conclusive that it is ineffective or is having an effect contrary to that for which it was designed and intended, I personally would be persuaded still to follow the examples of those countries. 
That is fairly recently, if it was in the last decade. But, as I say, these things are a reflection of the developing commercial pattern in Australia. I have a number of qualifications that I would advance in considering this legislation. Firstly, that commercial pattern has not reached the ultimate point of development. We find that every day there are company takeovers and that organisations are merging one into the other until we are getting great monolithic corporations, as has hap pened in Japan, where manufacture, distribution and sales are all merged in one gigantic enterprise. In those circumstances there may be developing there patterns which even legislation of this nature would do little to affect and in that case again the battle will go on, because new commercial methods will be designed and will emerge which in turn will have the effect of evading legislation of what we consider to be of a fairly embracive character today. Therefore at that point of time it will be necessary again for governmental ingenuity to be exercised as against private commercial ingenuity to enable these new practices in their turn to be controlled. 
Reference was made to my next point by  Senator Webster  in another direction; but I am concerned that this legislation may have one adverse effect, and that is to make goods unavailable at a reasonable price in the remote rural areas. I hope that will not happen, but as I understand it - and I do not purport to be an expert in the elements of commercial trading - there is a system of the national advertised line where a uniform price is fixed throughout the Commonwealth and perhaps the urban dweller is required to pay a higher price than otherwise might be commercially possible at the insistence of the trader, so that the same goods can be sold at substantially the same price in the remote areas of Australia. That is a very good commercial practice in the rural and remote areas of this continent and if the effect of this legislation were to destroy the possibility of that it would be highly regrettable. I do not know that that necessarily will happen, but if it does I see no way in which the rural areas and the remote areas are not going to be very gravely disadvantaged by the operation of the statute which is now before us for consideration in the form of a Bill. 
I would hope that they would get their goods cheaper. 
 Senator Georges  has been engaged in trading in an honorary capacity and he would have a better knowledge than I. He says purchasers would be able to get their goods more cheaply. I would be reassured if that is a fact. I merely express concern that that may not be the case, and whatever the good intention of the Bill may be, and however much it can advantage urban dwellers who are able to resort to the major department stores in the closely settled areas, if these are not available in the rural areas the people there will be disadvantaged. I would be concerned also about whether the small trader might be adversely affected. Again I am advised by those who operate in this field of merchandising that these people stock specialised lines, not the lines that are generally available in the grand magazines and that this might adversely affect them. 
I am one who, even in the days of the modern commercial trends, favours the continued existence and even the proliferation of the small shopkeeper. I am one who sees in that a healthiness in the commerical community. I am one who sees in it the distribution of wealth. I see in it the continued existence of the small and rural community. I should be concerned again if I thought that the livelihood of these people would be affected or that, in fact, they would be required to go out of existence. This is another matter which exercises my mind and I would hope again that this legislation in its present form would not have the effect that I fear it may. If it were going to have that effect, maybe by some emendation at a later stage the legislation may be given a form which might make it possible for that consequence to be avoided. 
Whilst the principles of the Bill are generally accepted and I do not propose to examine them over a broad spectrum, I shall deal with specific aspects which may occupy a few minutes of the time of the Senate. On the question of exemptions, it is possible for applications to be made for the exemption of certain goods.  Senator Murphy  has canvassed the possibility that perhaps, particularly in the intermediate stage, it may be possible for some intermediate decision to be made which would not disturb the current trading practice of certain people until a final resolution can be made as to the permanence or otherwise of the exemption. I think this would be a salutory provision because again, whilst it is desired to protect the consumer, there must also be, in the concept of justice, a fair recognition of the right of the trader who has built up his practice, sometimes with years and years of laborious dedication to his small business which has grown and grown, and he is entitled to the protection of this legislature just as the consumer is entitled to the protection which he will get under this Bill. 
I am concerned that the great principle of this Bill should be clouded by a reference to the economic climate in which it is introduced. In his second reading speech the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  referred to the reason why certain provisions are in the Bill and said: 
The Bill does not provide for goods that are the subject of an application for exemption to be treated as exempt pending a determination of tha application by the Tribunal. This is a matter to which the Government has given close thought, but the conclusion that it has reached is that, as this legislation is intended to assist in warding off the present inflationary pressures in the economy, provision for interim exemptions pending tha determination of applications would be inappropriate in that it would have the effect of unduly deferring the really effective date of the legislation. 
I was under the impression that in this Bill we were adopting and enunciating, in legislative form, certain social and economic principles and that these principles were not being enunciated merely in relation to an ephemeral economic situation. I was hoping that this was a recognition by the national Parliament that in the case of those principles of commercial operation which were bad there should be government intervention to truncate, in some way, the law to remove them. To learn that this is equated, and the whole approach of this Bill is somewhat related, to the current economic situation somewhat disappoints me. I hope that at all times these principles will be observed irrespective of what might be the economic milieu in which the principle is to operate in terms of the control of these undesirable practices. I know the Minister only advances that as a reason why these exemptions in a particular part of the Bill should not be given, that that has particular application to delay in implementing provisions which, if implemented, would have the effect of countering the inflationary pressures. I cannot see that that is a sufficient reason why what I regard as an important principle in this Bill should be laid aside. As I say, I do not think the Bill should be considered in the light of the current economic situation. I do not think the application of its principles should be in any way limited or circumscribed because at the present time the application of those principles may not have the desired effect in the inflationary situation. 
I suppose that in another way this Bill does operate a system of price control. Where there is a horizontal fixing of prices then we have the normal method of price fixation to control the undue rise in prices. A more complicated attack on the vertical mode of raising prices is made through the outlawing of resale price maintenance. Again without dogmatising, I do not know to what extent a Bill of this nature should operate to control an economic situation. It will have that effect but the principle is too great to make it merely the timetotime plaything of a government of one complexion or another which might say: This is a method by which we can control the economy.' There are certain recognised classical methods of controlling the economy, that is, through the control of credit, fiscal control and monetary and banking control. I think they are the accepted norms which may be applied. This Bill should flow on with its principles undiluted and unimpaired. Perhaps by proper operation of the Bill it will at all times have the consequence that it will stabilise the economy, because that is the very nature of the principle embodied in it. If that is so, it does not have to be particularly orientated to achieve that end. It does have that consequence by virtue of the mere operation of the principles involved in it. 
In regard to the exemption of certain types of goods, I particularly refer to goods which are not the products of manual operation but goods in the artistic and intellectual field. I refer, for example, to works of fiction or technology but more particularly those of fiction. Books which are produced have a most inexact market demand. An attempt may be made to capture or to accommodate public taste. This is very uncertain and it is not accurately assessed. Therefore very often books come cut with a limited circulation. A fixed price may be a fair way of recouping the initial risk taken by the publisher and of giving some recompense to the author of the intellectual or artistic work. I think that particularly in the field of book production consideration should be given to the possibility of exemption because these products, as goods, do not in my concept appear to fall within the type of product which is in the general contemplation of the principles of the Bill. These goods cannot be produced en masse; they are by their nature the product of one man's or one woman's ability or genius. They have a limited circulation and a limited demand. Perhaps the only way in which people can be induced to embark upon this type of literary and intellectual effort is to assure them of at least a reasonable return for their product, their literary or artistic output. That may, be possible only by fixing a price below which the product may not be sold. Those are the matters which seem to me to require particular attention in the application of the general principles of the Bill. 
I commend the Bill. It has arisen to some extent in a climate of political controversy. It could have been introduced some considerable time ago because it is designed to control a practice that is now of long and developing operation. I do not think we have come to the end of the road in legislation to control or try to influence commercial practices. Today there is tremendous pressure on men of commerce, manufacturers and traders because of intense competition in the market. Due to economic pressures they have to resort to methods of business which are quite legitimate but which undoubtedly have the effect of making it very difficult for people to buy in the circumstances of the time. Therefore, there is this constant struggle between the public authorities and the private enterpreneur. I would imagine that this conflict will continue and it will continue in other forms. We can expect that the Bill now before us will require from time to time adjustments and amendments as practices are discovered which quite properly should come within the disciplines of the Bill. It may be inadequate to accommodate or control practices which are now operating and which at this stage are considered to be controlled by the Bill but are found to be not controlled. On behalf of the Democratic Labor Party I support the Bill and commend it to honourable senators. 
I have been very concerned about certain aspects of this matter. I have been concerned as to whether the Senate, in operating in the whole of this matter within the Standing Orders and the precedents, operated properly in that it did not ask those who were charged with breach of privilege to show cause before this chamber. I think that it is most important that the whole matter of the rights of the Press, and so on and so forth, should be referred to the Privileges Committee. Therefore, I strongly endorse the motion which is now before the Senate. 
I wish  lo  refer to books. I think the  Minister  adverted to this matter without  specifically  answering my query. I was going to  direct  another query relating to nationally advertised lines. Will the Minister be good  enough to  indicate to what extent they  will be  affected by this Bill? As I understand  it, the  idea is to  fix  a certain price  for a commodity  which will be common  throughout  Australia, the idea being that  the price in the  urban area helps to  maintain  a  reasonable  price for the remote rural  areas,  I  would  like to know to what  extent that practice,  which  is a very  desirable  practice, is likely to  be impeded by this  legislation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
Whereas 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at presentin Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the education of these 200,000 Australians. . . 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income , for tax purposes. 
Removal of (he present age limit in respect ofthe deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance of students. 
Increase inthe amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships for parttime students from income tax.. 
And yourpetitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Pursuant to Standing Order 134 1 give notice that on the next day of sitting 1 shall move: 
That the resolution of 13th May 1971 adopting the report of the Committee of Privileges presented to the Senate on that day, insofar as it adopted the recommendation of the Committee that, on attendance before the Senate,  Mr J.  R. Walsh and  Mr H.  R. Rothwell, on their own behalf and on behalf of their publishers, be reprimanded by the presiding officer, be rescinded. 
That the reprimand administered by the Sen ate on 14th May 1971 to  Mr J.  R. Walsh and  Mr H.  R. Rothwell on their own behalf and on behalf of their publishers by the  Deputy President  in pursuance of the aforesaid resolution of the Senate be revoked. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I preface my remarks by indicating that I am concerned that the Government has been grievously at fault in not giving the Australian Parliament an opportunity to debate the implications to this country of Britain's entry into the European Common Market. To my knowledge, there has been no formal debate in either House of Parliament in recent years, although the moment of decision was at hand. On 13th May 1970 I asked whether the Government would prepare and present to . the Parliament a White Paper on the implications to Australia of Britain's entry into the Common Market. The reply I received was that the matter would be referred to the Minister for Trade and Industry. On 9th June 1970 I again asked whether the Government would present a White Paper. I was informed that the question would be referred to the Prime Minister. On 18th June I again raised the matter and was informed quite definitely that the Government did not intend to prepare a White Paper on the subject. On 23 rd February this year I asked whether the Government would provide the Parliament with an opportunity to debate the question and was informed by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, the Leader of the Government in the Senate, that it was not considered that the moment was opportune for such a debate. In view of the statement attributed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister arid Minister for Trade and Industry on his return from recent discussions on the Common Market in Europe and in the United Kingdom that there does not seem to be very much reaction by way of consideration of Australia's circumstances either in the United Kingdom or Europe, does the Prime Minister or the Minister for Trade and Industry consider that Australia's position has been prejudiced by the failure to discover the views of the Parliament on this .matter of such critical importance? Will the Prime Minister now consider laying down a White Paper or otherwise giving an opportunity for Australia's views to be heard through the Parliament on a matter of such historical and profound significance to the nation? 
That implies that I would dispute them if they were accurate and I am sure the honourable senator does not mean it that way. That is a fact of life. The truth remains that the United Kingdom Government itself is still in the grip of disputation which is taking place throughout the nation over the proposals for British entry into the European Economic Community and, if I understand the situation, will not take a definitive decision on it until some time in October this year when there will be a special line vote in the House of Commons. In the meantime, of course, Australia's point of view has been put to the United Kingdom by the Minister for Trade and Industry, and not so very long ago. 
The Government's point of view. 
There is some responsibility on the Government, surely. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts the position of and provision for deprived schools - a deprived school being a school in the inner urban or rural areas providing primary education, in which a high proportion of the school population is disadvantaged through background and/or environment - with a view to financial aid to the States to premit the recognition of such schools as special schools warranting a more liberal scale in staffing, equipping and servicing. 
I wish to speak briefly to this motion. I was under the impression that appointments were not going to be made, particularly to the Standing Orders Committee, because there is a notice of motion to reconstitute that Committee. 
I thought that these nominations in the new Senate were to be held up pending the resolution of that motion. I may have been under a misapprehension. I thought that, as there is a new Senate and it is felt that the Standing Orders Committee should be reconstituted on a different basis, appointments to it were to be held up pending the determination of that principle. But perhaps these are only replacements at this stage. 
Will this affect the other matter? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
This is a type of matter which stimulates some of the most intense, some of the most detailed and yet some of the calmest and most important debate that takes place in this chamber. There are many occasions on which motions for disallowance come before the Senate and in which, as  Senator Murphy  has said, the debate has been approached on a completely non-political basis. Tn those instances such expertise and such professional skill as can be assembled in this place through various honourable senators is brought to bear in discussions and deliberations on the matter before the Senate. This is such another illustration. I agree that it is an overstatement of the position to speak of the body of the law of evidence as being the most important branch of the law. Nevertheless, one cannot underestimate its significance and its importance and I think it is equally impor tant to say that it does not interfere with rights. After all, rights are affected in a very fundamental way by the applicable laws of evidence going towards their establishment or to their destruction. Therefore, this body of ordinances is of very great importance. 
However 1 think the Committee perhaps errs in the first paragraph of its report when it says that this Ordinance makes a comprehensive code of the law of evidence. The law of evidence is in a great part of the body of the common law as well as in such evidentiary provisions as are made in statutes, in this case statutes of New South Wales and some of the Commonwealth. This ordinance is not in that sense a complete codification of the law of evidence. What it is is an assemblage in the form of a single ordinance, as I comprehend it, of provisions which now are scattered through various other bodies of law, State and Federal. 
 That may be so. All I am saying is that it does not purport to he a complete codification of the applicable law of evidence. The Ordinance must be given its place of significance, but that place of significance must not he overstated or exaggerated. I have approached the consideration of this matter in the light of those comments. 
The law of evidence is possibly the most frustrating, the most irritating and, to the ordinary lay person, the most incomprehensible branch of the law. Those who have occasion to come in contact with it can never discover why certain evidence cannot be given, why evidence must be given in a certain way and why certain facts that people wish to produce to the court cannot be adduced. The law of evidence must be constantly under review not only because of the developments in society, an increasing degree of sophistication and new methods of communication but also because of the new methods by which evidence can be obtained. A new means has to be devised by which evidence properly attained can be adduced in court and, as part of the evidentiary body, be put before a juriciary or tribunal to assist in its determination. It is important that, of alt the bodies of law, the law of evidence should be the most viable and the least, static. 
The fact that an ordinance has been brought forward which not only attempts to collect many of the statutory provisions relating to the taking of evidence in the Australian Capital Territory but also writes in some new principles, including the new principle relating to the use of computers, would indicate that the nature of the law of evidence and its import is appreciated by those who have the responsibility of administering it in this part of Australia, namely, the Australian Capital Territory. It is important that some attempt at least should be made to re-write the law of evidence - to collect, collate and apply it in more modern terms - in areas in which the Commonwealth has jurisdiction, which include the Australian Capital Territory. 
Normally  1  would be disturbed if I thought that a substantive right was going to be dealt with by subordinate legislation rather than by statute; but I have taken a different attitude in relation to this mater.  1  have done so afer having discussed the matter with the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who indicated to me and to the Senate that there will be introduced into the Australian Capital Territory a new criminal code. That code is at present receiving the consideration of and is to  bs  compiled in a particular way by the Queensland Bar. There is, of course, a code of criminal law in Queensland; there has been one there virtually since the turn of the century. The Queensland Bar has, to a large measure, been responsible for taking the initiative in the presentation and compilation of a new code. The AttorneyGeneral has said that this code should come forward within the next  12  months. It will, of course, emerge in the form of a statute to operate in the federal Territories, but its effect no doubt will spill over into other areas of law. Perhaps it will become a nationally accepted code of criminal law. 
Ancillary to that - in the area of what is called adjectival law - is the law of evidence. It has been said that it would not be inappropriate for the presentation of such a code and its passage through the Parliament to be accompanied by the presentation of a body of procedural law in perhaps both the civil and criminal fields that is complementary to the code. It would provide a comprehensive pattern of substantive criminal law and of evidentiary law if it were duly enacted by statute. In the light of the Attorney-General's assurance, perhaps the present position should be allowed to continue. The acceptance of this Ordinance, as I have already indicated, will not result in the writing in of so many new principles that we should insist that they be introduced by statute. This Ordinance merely picks up much of the existing law and enacts it in another form and in another way. In view of the anticipated presentation of a criminal law code, it would seem appropriate that perhaps we should pause and allow the present position to continue, having in mind the assurance of the Attorney-General that at an appropriate time this whole body of law might be enacted by statute. 
Let us not think that we alone in this part of the world are moving in this field of evidentiary law. This matter is under constant review in the States. Most of the States now have law reform committees looking at their substantive law as well as their auxiliary or adjectival law. New South Wales in particular has a Law Reform Commission looking into this aspect of the matter. That being so, it is quite possible that some of the principles which will be there devised and suggested for passing into State law will be available for inclusion in any code of evidentiary law applicable to the Australian Capital Territory and to other federal Territories. I think it would be regrettable therefore if at this stage we were, as it were, to freeze any statute when the position is completely fluid, particularly as it may be possible for the Commonwealth to command in the Territories under its control all the knowledge and information that the States are assembling and, by co-operation and coordination, perhaps to devise a common code of adjectival law in this field which will have application in not only the federal Territories but also the States law. As the AttorneyGeneral said, it would create a somewhat difficult position if there were to be in State courts vested with federal jurisdiction the application of one code of evidentiary law that is parallel to another body of evidentiary law that is applying in State courts operating within their own jurisdiction and applying their own law. It would be regrettable if that position were allowed to develop and allowed to go uncorrected. It appears to me that, if we were to legislate in this field, the possibility of correction and of alteration would be very much limited or reduced. 
Because this Ordinance does purport merely to collate in many respects existing law that is otherwise contained in the statutes, particularly in the statutes of the State of New South Wales; because there is fluidity in the approach to the whole of this question; because of the assurance of the Attorney-General that he is conscious that, even though it is not a body of substantive law, it does to an extent impinge upon the statement of rights that it may quite properly find its place in the statutes; because he has that within his contemplation at the appropriate time; and because of the practical difficulties that may be associated with the destruction of this Ordinance and the resurrection of the multitude of laws otherwise applying, with their confusions and complexities, 1 feel that prudence dictates that this Ordinance be allowed to live. I could say a great deal more. I do think sometimes that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, of which I have been a member for some years, has developed an oversensitivity to its task and is inclined- 
 No, it is not. Committees of this nature can develop an oversensitivity. In other words, as one becomes embroiled in a particular situation one may find that one's vision is inclined to be narrowed and, quite unknown to one, total objectivity is lost. In those circumstances, I think that the Committee should be aware, on the one hand, that it is operating within the norms of its charter - which it does - and that it has, on the other hand, a recognition of the practicalities of the situation. We must have a nice balance, always in issue, between individual rights and community rights, between the facilities that a government must have at its command if it is to function in the interests of all as against the rights and entitlements of individuals. That balance must be preserved always. Allied with sensitivity to these rights must always go a recognition of the practicalities of the situation and the rights of the community at large. In men tioning this 1 intend no criticism of the Committee. This is merely a note of caution. 1 suggest that the Committee should be alert always to that situation and that it at all times should attempt to preserve its objectivity and cold approach in order to operate strictly within its charter. 
 Certainly not conscious lack of objectivity. I am saying that there could be an over-sensitivity. A committee may well put undue emphasis on one side or the other to the exclusion of other considerations unknown to it and not realised by it. I merely raise that as a counsel of caution without attempting to be critical of the Committee. I leave that salutary and, I hope, stimulating thought with members of the Committee who are listening to me. 
In the light of those considerations and in the circumstances at this time I think that this Ordinance may well be allowed to proceed on its way and to operate for the great benefits it brings. It has been the consequence of skilled attention, of expert drafting and of close investigation by those who have felt that the laws of evidence as far as possible should be up to date in this part of Australia. I have had the pleasure of meeting the distinguished Professor of Law at Oxford University,  Dr Cross,  who operated for some time as an exchange professor at the University of Adelaide. It may or may not be known to honourable senators that  Dr Cross  is totally blind. He is one of the most amazing characters in the field of theoretical and practical law.  His  contribution in this field has been superb. If his expertise and knowledge have been brought to bear, and if he has been consulted about this Ordinance, I do not think one could have commanded greater skill. Therefore we can accept that this Ordinance is up to date, that it is far in advance, perhaps, of any similar collective body of evidentiary law now available in Australia, and that it may well become the beacon by which other States, other jurisdictions, may well guide their future in this field. If they do that then it is much better to leave the Ordinance as it is at the moment. 
As I have said, let the States and jurisdictions draw upon this knowledge while in turn the Commonwealth draws upon the knowledge, opinions and expert attention which other people are giving to the body of evidentiary law in their jurisdictions. In that way ultimately we might witness the emergence of a nationally accepted code, a real code, of the laws of evidence. I rest upon the assurance of the AttorneyGeneral that at the appropriate time, perhaps contemporaneously with or at least not lagging far behind the presentation of a criminal code for the Australian Capital Territory, we might find a code of evidentiary law also presented. In the light of that assurance and in all the circumstances, the Democratic Labor Party supports the Ordinance and resists the motion for its disallowance. 
Under General Business there is a motion in my name which stands first on the notice paper. 
Is not that the position? 
I think that is quite logical; but perhaps we might have received some intimation of that in view of the fact that, if I am correct, a motion in my name stands first on the notice paper under General Business. 
Perhaps  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson will be good enough to explain the position. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) (5:25)  -  in reply - I would not like it to be thought that any discourtesy was being extended to  Senator Byrne  but it was my clear understanding that tonight we would be dealing with Orders of the Day. As he knows, we alternate between Orders of the Day in one week and General Business in the next week. Therefore it did seem to me that tonight would be an ideal opportunity to deal wim the Standing Orders proposals. They are not political matters; they are our own domestic matters which we have to discuss in a completely non-political way in order to try to get some improvement in our procedures. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party welcomes the proposed alteration to standing order 33. Very correctly the report recites the reasons behind this proposed alteration, that is, the changed complexion of the Senate which up to this time has not been reflected in the composition of the Standing Orders Committee. I draw attention to the fact that there is on the notice paper at page 3096 notice of motion No. 6 which reads: 

 Senator Byrne To move With a view to the Standing Orders Committee being as representative as possible of the composition of the Senate at any time, the Senate resolves that - 
Standing Order 33 be amended by leaving out the words 'seven Senators' and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'such other Senators as may be appointed by the Senate'; and 

 Senator Gair be appointed -a member of the Standing Orders Committee. 
There is little doubt that if the proposal from the Standing Orders Committee is adopted, that is, that the number be increased from 7 to 8, the one who would logically and properly be appointed by resolution of the Senate is  Senator Gair.  My point is that my proposed amendment was designed to accommodate particularly  Senator Gair  and the independents. That is why I said: 'Such other Senators as may be appointed by the Senate'. While I welcome the proposed amendment, what should be done is to adopt the proposal of the Standing Orders Committee at this stage. We would do so in the fond expectation and hope and, we trust, certain anticipation that the additional senator would be representative of the Democratic Labor Party in the person of  Senator Gair  but that provision for the independents should not be lost sight of. Perhaps at a later stage provision might be made by a motion that the number be increased by one to provide for the independents. 
It is not my province to plead for my friends who sit behind me but we must recognise that the Senate is composed today in terms of an electoral system which is based on proportional representation. It would be a contradiction in terms if the electoral system were to provide for a Senate disposed as it is now in numbers and political allegiances, but, due to the Standing Orders, those who came here by virtue of that system were not given an opportunity to participate fully in the deliberation and operations of the Parliament. It is for that reason I proposed the amendment standing in my name on the notice paper. Naturally my first consideration would be that the major non-Government and non-Opposition group should have priority in representation and that this should be by its leader. Hence the specific reference to  Senator Gair.  Also my motion was put on the notice paper in the light of the anticipated presence of the independents. They may speak for themselves. Even now or at some time provision should be made for their representation, 
Common sense would dictate what had to be done. After all, 3 senators represent a significant proportion of the Australian electorate and 2 come from the one State. Therefore, they represent a very big proportion of the Tasmanian vote. They are  Senator Turnbull  and  Senator Townley.  I do not think it would be proper if they got undue representation on the Standing Orders Committee. Equally 1 do not think it would be proper if they were denied representation. After all, the maximum and minimum representation they could get would be one. We could not do any. better than that. That may in terms of proportion be overrepresentation but this is as good as would be reasonably and practically possible. I do not propose to move any amendment to the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee at this stage. The recommendation satisfies our Party requirements. 
If anybody else would care to move a motion in the terms of my motion on the notice paper that such other senators as the Senate may determine be appointed, the independents may choose to speak to that. That is a matter for them and we would consider "any proposition that came forward. At this stage the Democratic Labor Party feels, as  Senator Murphy  has stated, that this is a non-party matter. This is a non-party matter in the Democratic Labor Party. Both parties happen fortuitously to see the same way on this issue. We support the recommendation and trust that in the logic of events if this resolution goes through unamended and the number is increased from 7 to 8 it would be the right and entitlement of the Democratic Labor Party to have that additional representative and that such representative should be left to the nomination of our Party. I assure the Senate it would be the leader of our Party as other leaders quite properly are represented, with other senators, on this Committee. The Democratic Labor Party supports the recommendation but I would ask the Senate to keep the other consideration in mind. 
I think that this matter has been amply discussed. The justification for the proposal which has been put forward by the Standing Orders Committee lies in paragraph 8 of its report. It seems to me to be a very rational explanation of the matter. To adopt any alternative procedure would raise very complicated matters which may be impossible of resolution and could have very fundamental and far-reaching effect on the Standing Orders. Standing order 64 seems to me, to use the term used by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)*  merely a vehicle. As he said, at the end of a day's sitting matters that are relevant or irrelevant may be discussed on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate. The standing order we are debating is really a further adjournment provision at the beginning of the day, again providing a vehicle for discussion. Just as the motion in the evening for the adjournment of the Senate operates as a vehicle for all matters to be discussed, standing order 64 provides a vehicle for the discussion of a particular matter specified in a notice of motion duly delivered. 
It would seem to me that, if there is an objection to this procedure, there should be equally an objection to any speeches on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate in the evening. I am sure that no honourable senator in this place would want to abandon or destroy his right to address himself to the daily motion for the adjournment of the Senate and, in particular, to speak on any matter that may occur to him as to be warranting presentation to the Senate. I think that the urgency motion procedure is merely another way for the Senate to be given an opportunity to discuss a particular, matter. 
I do cross swords here with  Senator Wood.  With respect to him, I do think that there has been a total misconception on his part of the function and nature of the Senate itself and of the Senate as a part of the legislature. After all, the function of this place is not merely to pass statutes or resolutions; it is a forum in which the opinion of the people may find expression through their elected representatives. That is the function of this place. What does one see when one looks at any Senate notice paper, particularly the orders of the day? One sees a list of matters which have at some time or another come before the Senate in a manner quite apart from any resolution or statute. For example, the report of the Joint Committee of the Australian Capital Territory on the Milk Industry is a matter that is listed for debate on the motion that the Senate take note of the report. No substantive resolution is involved. There is merely the very formal resolution that the matter be noted, the purposes being to facilitate discussion of the report. 
It is a part of the functions of this place that a report of that nature is brought to the attention of the legislature and debated if anybody wishes to debate it. Another item in the business paper relates to the immigration and settlement of Maltese citizens. Here the motion is to take note of a ministerial statement. These are devices for the Executive Government to present aspects or segments of Government administration to the Parliament for its scrutiny and, if it wishes, debate. No substantive resolution is involved. Nothing is done which would bind the Executive. 
The system by which we are able to speak on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate at night is in consonance with the area of responsibility and duties of this chamber. An urgency motion is in the same way a vehicle which is availed of so that matters of particular importance can be raised. 
It is interesting to note that there is a variation between the Standing Orders of the House of Representatives and the Standing Orders of the Senate in this regard. The Standing Orders of the House of Representatives leave it to the discretion of the presiding officer as to whether a matter shall be debated; certainly as to what priority shall be accorded to matters of public importance which are presented for debate. That discretion does not lie in this place in the presiding officer. It lies particularly and peculiarly within the discretion of 5 honourable senators who pre sent themselves standing in the Senate and say to us as a subjective judgment: This is a matter of urgency'. That is one of the fundamental differences between an urgency motion in this place and a matter of public importance raised for discussion in the other place. So a significant group of people can initiate a debate in this forum in consonance with that area of duty and responsibility of this place on a matter that it thinks warrants the attention of this chamber. 
The vehicle that is provided in this place is traditional and effective and it does not bind anybody by a specific resolution or determination. If it did it would fall into a completely different area of operations. If we were to lose the opportunity for this type of debate we would be abandoning one of the most valuable procedures available to the Senate at the present time, that is, the right to bring into this place for discussion some matter on which the opinions of all can be expressed without necessarily committing anyone to any definitive resolution. If it is felt that a definitive resolution is required forms are provided by which a vote can be achieved. However, in the absence of such a resolution, the other function is fulfilled - I think efficiently and effectively - by the means which are now provided. For those reasons and subject to the alteration which has been proposed, I would say that the present procedure is good, but with the variation it will be better. For that reason the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the proposition of the Standing Orders Committee. 
When we consider the amendment it is a matter of considering what ls the nature of an urgency motion and what principles or canons should apply to its form, its time of presentation, the mode of its debate and ultimate deliberation and decision. At present standing order 64 enables a notice in relation to a matter of urgency to be given. It does not specify any time limit within which it may be given. It does not circumscribe the mover by imposing a period before the actual moving with which he must comply. The proposal is that the notice of motion of urgency shall be given not more than 24 hours before the time fixed for the meeting of the Senate. I do not find it possible to support this proposition. A motion of urgency is totally subjective in this chamber, as against the provision in the House of Representatives Standing Orders where a similar matter is raised under the title of a matter of public importance. Standing order 107 of the House of Representatives states:  - A Member may propose to the  Speaker  that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion. The Member proposing the matter shall present to the  Speaker  at least one hour before the time fixed for the meeting of the House a written statement of the matter proposed to be discussed; and if the  Speaker  determines that it is in order, he shall read it to the House. The proposed discussion must be supported by eight Members, including the proposer, rising in their places as indicating approval. The  Speaker  shall then call upon the Member who had proposed the matter to speak. . . . 
In the event of more than one matter being presented for the same day, priority shall be given to the matter which, in the opinion of the  Speaker,  is the most urgent and important, and no other proposed matter shall be read to the House that day. 
Our standing order is different in that, as I said when addressing myself to an earlier proposition, it is left to the discretion of a senator as to whether in his opinion a matter is of an urgent character and as to whether he proposes to bring it before the Senate. It is not left to an individual member indiscriminately and arbitrarily to force his will upon the Senate and thus interrupt the business of the Senate by proposing a proposition and compelling the Senate to debate it for the period allotted in the Standing Orders. There must be a fairly substantial body of support. That is not necessarily support for the proposition in the urgency motion. That body of support has to be satisfied that the matter is, by its nature, urgent. Four senators additional to the mover standing in their places and supporting the motion of urgency are required. 
Within the concept of the Standing Orders, that is considered a substantial body of support. I have sitting behind me 3 independent senators who represent a very substantial section of the community. They are not in a position to raise a matter of urgency, under the present Standing Orders, unless they get support. They may have a matter which in their subjective opinion - not in  Senator Georges'  opinion - is a matter of urgency. The test which the Senate imposes is whether they can obtain the support of enough senators so that the matter can be debated. It is not limited to those who have a common presentation, whether it is a Party or a non-Party affiliation. It is quite possible that on an issue these 3 senators may see a matter the same way. Nobody who is a member of a political party may see it their way. For example, they may think that an independent member should have certain rights and privileges electorally or otherwise. As a member of a Party,  Senator Georges  would not agree. I may not agree. On that issue they see a community of intention and desire. They cannot have an urgency motion debated because they have not the minimum numbers required under the Standing Orders. When  Senator Georges  says that 5 members are not a substantial body he wants to deprive them of the possibility of being able to do that. The concept of the Standing Orders postulates democratic principles much more widely than those espoused by  Senator Georges.  ] am not prepared to limit the number required to support an urgency motion as suggested by the honourable senator. I would not do it to disentitle 3 senators or, for that matter, members of the Democratic Labor Party of that right. For years the Democratic Labor Party had 2 members, -subsequently 3 and subsequently 4. At no stage during that time were its members able, by themselves and unsupported, to -move an urgency motion although there may well have been a matter which, in their subjective opinion, warranted urgent attention. It was only with the advent of  Senator Kane  that we had the minimum number required under the Standing Orders and that our opinion was able to be presented to the Senate for deliberation. The concept pf the Standing Orders is that it shall lie within the judgment of a sena tor, provided he gets this body of support, to determine whether the matter he brings forward is of such a nature as to attract the attenion, discussion and deliberation of the Senate. 
I am coming back to the subject, senator, if you will just be patient. That being so, that it lies within the determination of members as a matter of subjective judgment-, then the question as to the point of time at which it becomes urgent also lies within the judgment of the person who elects to move it and the group which supports it. It lies particularly within the disposition of the person who elects to present his notice to the  President  and to move the motion. Under the Standing Orders at present such a notice may be given when the Senate is in session or out of session. If an honourable senator elects at some stage to discover a matter of urgency and it is then perhaps 2 months before the Senate will meet, what he does is a very logical, normal and desirable thing. Acting in the way in which a parliamentarian should operate, he draws to the attention of the nation the fact that here is a matter which in his opinion is of very great urgency and he brings it to the notice of the Parliament in the only way that he can, even though the Parliament is not then in session. He states that when the Parliament assembles he will attempt to see that the matter is debated in the forum of debate, the national Parliament. That is a very logical thing to do and an extremely democratic thing to do. It lies and must continue to lie within his personal disposition as to whether he considers it to be a matter of urgency. 
I know the rather cynical proposition has been put forward that if a matter is urgent on 1st January it cannot be urgent on, say, 14th March when the Senate may re-assemble; but it appears to me that the proposition may well be stated in reverse. A matter may well attract a greater degree of urgency rather than a diminishing degree of urgency with the passage of time. As an example, I remind honourable senators of what the Democratic Labor Party did in relation to age pensions. When the national wage case .decision was handed. down in November 1970. the Democratic Labor Party immediately assessed what the consequences would be. The wage increase indicated first of all, a drastic erosion of the value of money and that that would have a disastrous effect on the recipients of social welfare and, secondly, that once the effect of that wage increase started to operate there would be a further grave deterioration in the income and purchasing power of the pension. We immediately sent to the  President  a notice of urgency saying that as soon as the Parliament met we wanted the matter debated and that we would attempt to have it debated. That was our judgment of the urgency at that time. But as week followed week, that motion gained increasing and accelerated urgency from day to day, firstly, as the erosion of the value of money started to become more rapid and, secondly, as the effect of the national wage case started to manifest itself. When the Parliament met that matter had become not a matter of urgency but a matter of grave and compelling urgency. 
Surely it is a function of a member of Parliament, although the Parliament is not sitting - and it cannot sit all the time - to say to the nation at large at the first opportunity that it is a matter of grave national importance- 
And to register his opinion with the Parliament. If the Parliament had been sitting at that time we would have given notice to the  President  immediately. But the Parliament was not sitting. We did the only thing that could have been done. I say to  Senator Willesee:  It is not merely the discussion of the matter that is to be achieved; it is equally important to register the necessity for the Parliament to discuss the matter. This is the only way in which it can be done. 
We are not loading the notice paper, although it does give us a priority. It could well be that a matter of very grave urgency, where notice was not given, could be crowded out by something which in the subjective judgment of others was more urgent. After all, it is a fair conclusion that honourable senators coming to this place are men of judgment and some experience and that when they make a definitive judgment that a matter is of some urgency their judgment can be accepted and relied on, and that when the matter comes before the Senate it will be regarded as an urgent matter and be discussed as such. I know that honourable senators may find it somewhat inconvenient that notices of an urgent character have been presented by the Democratic Labor Party on a number of occasions, but I am sure that no-one can dispute that not one of those notices could be considered as of other than an urgent nature. 
Let us consider the 3 resolutions that have been presented to the Parliament by the Democratic Labor Party during the last session. One related to pensions in terms of the national wage decision. Is there any honourable senator sitting to my right who would dispute that that was a matter of the gravest urgency? Is there any honourable senator sitting on my right who would say that we were not entitled to bring that matter to the notice of the national Parliament through the  President  at the earliest opportunity after the national wage decision had been handed down, although the Parliament was not in session? Is there any honourable senator who would be prepared to stand up and challenge us on that? 
I am staggered. If  Senator Cavanagh  thinks that, he should go before the pensioner associations in Australia and say that he does not agree with the Democratic Labor Party doing its best, the Parliament being out of session, to present this matter through the  President  to the Parliament at the earliest opportunity. Let the honourable senator go before the pensioners and tell them that. I challenge him to go around Australia saying that. The second proposition that we brought forward was one relating to child endowment. Does anybody deny that that was a matter of urgency? 
The purpose we had in mind in raising that urgency motion again was to direct, as early as possible. the notice and attention of Parliament 1 this gravely wanting field of social welfare. The third proposition related to superannuitants, particularly the Commonwealth Public Service superannuitants. It is significant, and we are gratified, that our judgment has been accepted and at least has been responded to by the Government in the recent Budget. We do not claim necessarily all the credit for that - not at all - but we do say that undoubtedly the concern which was shown by the Democratic Labor Party in its early, prompt and urgent presentation to the Senate of notice pf motions which were carried by the Senate on 3 occasions and opposed by the Australian Labor Party on 2 occasions, if my recollection is correct, must definitely have had an effect on the Government as showing an expression of opinion on the part of the people as conveyed through a resolution of the Senate. I am staggered that the alleged democrats on my right, whom I have heard plead in this place- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the senate and draw his attention to the fact that on 17th September 1970 the Senate carried a resolution relating to water pollution. 
To the motion by  Senator Davidson  that the Senate take note of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution the Senate added the following words:  and refers it to the Government for immediate consideration and urgent action in view of the recommendations of the Committee that there should be a national approach to the matter. 
I ask: Will the Leader of the Government inquire from the Prime Minister as to whether any Government initiative has been taken on this matter, particularly in view of the fact that the resolution of this chamber referred the matter to the Government for its urgent attention, that the States are already very active in this field and that the object of the resolution and the report, which was to obtain a national approach to the problem, may be defeated if the Government does not immediately take the initiative and co-operate and co-ordinate with the States in the solution of this problem? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI recall the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. I have certainly read in part, if not in whole, the Committee's recommendations. I understand that the report was put down on 17th September last year. I am not aware as to what the processes of government have been in relation to it. I will certainly make inquiries without delay and let the honourable senator know the result of those inquiries. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. You,  Mr President,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition will have been acquainted with the fact that the Australian Democratic Labor Party has given notice of its intention to move an urgency motion on 8th September in respect of Australia's relations with the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China. Item No. 2 on the notice paper under Orders of the Day is the adjourned debate on the statement on international affairs made in the Senate by  Senator Wright  on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Obviously the subject matter of our urgency motion is canvassed in that statement and the debate on it would be an appropriate vehicle for the carriage of the debate on the substance of the urgency motion of which we have given notice. As to present the urgency motion and then to have a debate on the statement would involve duplication, and even unwarranted use of the urgency motion procedure, I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he can assure the Senate that the adjourned debate on the ministerial statement is likely to come before the Senate for early debate. If such is the case, we would not proceed with our urgency motion relating to China on the scheduled date of 8th September. We would withdraw that notice of motion on the intimation of the Minister that an early debate is to ensue on the ministerial statement. Is the Minister able to inform the Senate now whether an early debate is likely on Order of the Day No. 2 on the notice paper? 
In presenting his propositions to the Senate  Senator McClelland,  I thought, expressed by inference a point of view that would be shared by all honourable senators in this chamber. The inference in  Senator McClelland's  proposition is that the science of penology today is a developing science to which there must be gradually attracted a great deal of expertise and this can only finally be applied to the regeneration of unfortunates who find themselves in our prisons by bodies expertly equipped in personnel and in the particular disciplines to do the task which is so important. Candidly that is a belief which all honourable senators in this chamber would share. I think it is one that would be shared by all those in the community who are interested in this developing science of penology. Perhaps of all the social sciences this is the one which until now has received the least attention but it is one which in the future must receive increasing attention because of the proliferation of unfortunates - I use the term again - who are cluttering our prisons and because of the social responsibility which rests upon all of us to try to return them to the normalities of life and participation in the ordinary responsibilities of citizenship. However, it is on that issue that I am in conflict with  Senator McClelland  on the proposition put forward by  Senator Murphy. 
If we agree that the basic idea common to all of us is that the regeneration of prisoners in the best way and in the shortest possible time is what should affect our decision, it seems to me that the question is whether that is more likely to be affected by the provisions of this ordinance than by an attempt to create a parole board in this community. The proposition is fairly clear in those terms.  Senator Greenwood  has pointed out certain difficulties which present themselves in the creation, establishment and conduct of a parole board in the Australian Capital Territory. After all, a parole board may be created from a number of people who from their professional disciplines or their social interests have been identified with this type of work and this type of activity. But this is an area of social science which is rapidly changing and in which, due to the contribution of academics and those working pragmatically actually in the field of regeneration of prisoners, there is a developing body of expertise which can be commanded and applied only by those who are constantly working in the field and who have a constant experience before them which they are able to apply, bring up to date and direct to those who may come before them for their guidance and advice. I do not think in all the circumstances in which the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  has indicated this board would operate that a parole board in this Territory will be able to accumulate from day to day beyond its commencing point this increasing body of knowledge which is becoming available and which parole boards that have a heavy and continuous workload, that are constantly in session and that are constantly reviewing the position of many inmates of institutions and prisons in the State are able to command. 
The position that  Senator Greenwood  has mentioned is that only 2 prisoners are immediately available for parole. If that is the only work the parole board immediately has before it, and perhaps some months or some years would go before it would again be asked to direct its mind to another matter, there is obviously no continuing body of experience coming to such a board. If the Governor-General were to operate in a social vacuum without advice, without assistance and without guidance, I would say that on the balance of advantages it would be better to accept a parole board even of that kind and subject to those deprivations rather than to leave the matter to the under-instructed decision of the Governor-General acting on the advice of a purely Public Service administrative officer. I understand that is not the position. Actually the parole board of New South Wales will be available for advice and consultation. It would have no executive authority undoubtedly but it would have a body of experts equipped by their professional competence and by their continuing experience to advise the AttorneyGeneral, who in turn advises the GovernorGeneral, as to whether leniency ar parole should be extended in a particular case. If such a board is available it is really the best that one could command in Australia. 
It would be foolish if we were to be deprived in this part of Australia of such  a  body of expert guidance merely on a technicality. 1 see it as very little more than that, lt would be better to have a board deprived of knowledge and experience or lacking in those things but having the technical capacity to parole than to allow the technical capacity to rest in the AttorneyGeneral or His Excellency the GovernorGeneral on the advice of the most expert board operating in Australia. On the balance of advantages I think undoubtedly for the Australian Capital Territory, in view of the deprivations which must come to this board due to the very few people who would come before it over a period of time, that such a board initially would be at a disadvantage and ultimately at a grave and accelerating disadvantage. As the Attorney-General has said, it is not merely that the board releases a prisoner on parole. From then on there will be supervision. That is particularly important with younger criminals and younger men and women are coming before the courts. That is an unfortunate trend in our community. It is important that these young people have the constant care and solicitude of an experienced parole officer. 
If within the Australian Capital Territory on the mere technical decision of the Attorney-General advising the GovernorGeneral a young person were released from prison on parole, I do not think it would be wise for him then to be severed from all connection with any guidance, solicitude, care or instruction. I think it would be indefensible. I inquired about this because it would be necessary for us to make up our minds in relation to this ordinance. Probably some parole officer in New South Wales will initally have his services made available and will probably be duly appointed on whatever is the appropriate type and term of appointment to look after young people of this kind. Ultimately as the system develops and as Canberra grows and the unfortunate need becomes greater, a parole officer or officers will be appointed in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I know that  Senator Murphy  regards keenly the question of endowing the Executive authority over the lives and liberties of people. I appreciate that. I feel in this case that it is a solicitude which may be exaggerated on the one hand but, if one were to rest on that on the other hand there would be a tremendous deprivation of this body of knowledge, skill and experience which would by the administrative arrangements which are contemplated, flow from the operation of the ordinance in conjunction with the authorities in New South Wales. It would be a pity if the Australian Capital Territory were to be deprived of that assistance, that advice and that body of expert opinion and great experience. For those reasons the Australian Democratic Labor Party does not see any great merit in disallowing this ordinance. We oppose the motion of disallowance and support the ordinance as it stands at the present time. 
This is another of the debates that periodically occur in this chamber concerning the administration of the Australian Capital Territory and which so often engender more heat than is normal in this place. This is an ordinance. It is one of a series of ordinances which have come before the Senate rather recently. It is the only one to my knowledge which has received the adverse report of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and this, is based on a principle enunciated in relation to the ordinance. It occurs to me that rather recently an ordinance was presented in relation to the legal profession in Canberra. That was the subject of a motion for disallowance, but not on the basis that the matter was appropriately a matter for legislation. The motion was founded merely on the principle of the separation or non-separation of the profession. 
 That was not the subject of a report - 1 will put it that way - of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee although it was a matter of serious moment to the Australian Capital Territory. Subsequently the land ordinance was introduced which represented a tremendously important change in the whole structure of land law in the Territory. The ordinance was the subject of a motion for disallowance by  Senator Devitt  but the motion was based on the political principle associated with the land tenure that was the best and most effective or most appropriate for the Territory. That, again, was not the subject of a motion for disallowance on this principle. It was not claimed to be more appropriately a matter for legislation at the instance of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. For some strange reason the ordinance now under consideration emerges as a matter that has received the scrutiny of the Senate committee, which has recommended that it be disallowed. Why that should be, from the point of view of uniformity, is something I cannot altogether appreciate. However, the Committee in its wisdom saw fit to do this, and we know the subsequent events. A motion for disallowance of the ordinance was carried. 
I want to make one point:  Senator Turnbull  referred to the fact that on the motion for disallowance the other day the independent members of the Senate, including 2 new members, voted in favour of the disallowance.  Senator Turnbull  used a phrase something like: '1 do not think they would be so chicken hearted as to change their vote in relation to the motion now before the chamber.' That comment puts those honourable senators in a particularly difficult position. Neither of those gentlemen has yet bad the opportunity  of  delivering his maiden speech. Therefore if he wishes to enter into this debate and to indicate, if he wishes to change his vote, why he taas changed his vote and by what arguments he is persuaded, he is by the custom of this place stopped from doing o.  If  on this occasion the gentlemen con cerned elected to find a different home tor their vote from the one they chose the other day, it would be very unfair to suggest in any sense that it was because of a lack of courage or anything that did not register the highest motive in the gentlemen concerned. I am sure that  Senator Turnbull  did not intend by inference to raise any such suggestion. 
Ali I say to the honourable senators concerned is that if out of the discussion which has taken place in the Senate and on the ebb and flow of argument or on the presentation of matter by the AttorneyGeneral or any other honourable senator they are now convinced to the contrary position from that which they held the other day then it is quite proper - it is possibly the most proper thing - for them to vote accordingly. Therefore I say to the honourable senators that ' in no sense should they feel themselves intimidated or dissuaded, because they committed themselves the other day and do not have the opportunity in this debate of indicating what their attitude will be, particularly if they elect to change their mind, from voting accordingly if they feel so disposed to do. 
Perhaps the only reason advanced in the debate the other day as to why this matter should be legislated was the minor reason that it was important in its substance and content. Yet there are other matters of equal substance and importance which did not attract the attention of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. But one proposition that was put forward was that if this provision came in by means of legislation it would enable the evidentiary provisions of the ordinance to be examined in depth. However the Bill suggested by  Senator Murphy  seems to me by its very nature to preclude that intention. It is intended to be a temporary measure and the honourable senator himself contemplates that it would expire in about 2 months time when it would be replaced and the whole matter would then be subject to the closest examination. If that is so it would appear to me that the alternative method proposed by  Senator Murphy  will have the effect of defeating the very purpose which  Senator Cavanagh  and others suggested would be the attraction of the legislative approach. Their argument was that it would enable the schedule to a Bill to be examined in depth and with penetration. In the circumstances outlined by  Senator Greenwood  I would say that that will not be possible within the practicalities of the demands of time and because of the situation that has arisen in the Australian Capital Territory in the conduct of proceedings, particularly criminal proceedings, in the courts. For that reason I can see no warrant at all for adopting this alternative course. 
When this matter was last debated and again today, the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  gave an assurance to this chamber that it is proposed to introduce a modern criminal code for the Australian Capital Territory, and appropriate to that, relevant to that and ancillary to that would be the introduction of procedural provisions by way of the Evidence Act or perhaps rules of court and other things of that nature which appropriately could be passed by this place at the same time. In the light of that assurance given by the Attorney-General, that the matter will receive immediate attention, it appears to me that the prudent course to take is to allow this ordinance to run, if at the conclusion of a few months the procedural statute will come in embodying the provisions of this ordinance and more, embodying what the Law Reform Committee in New South Wales is at present investigating so that that again will be written into a new and up to date procedural code. I think that is a defensible course to take and I think it is a course which should be acceptable to this chamber. 
In the light of the assurance given by the Attorney-General I think that the Senate should reasonably be prepared to accept that the ordinance should be restored and should be allowed to run. It is a modern evidentiary code. It is not perfect because it can be improved and no doubt it will be improved considerably in the light of expert information which will follow the investigations of the Law Reform Committee in New South Wales. In the meantime the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory would not be deprived of a modern evidentiary code, so much of which will tell in favour of the defence in proceedings, and that is important. Resting on the assurance of the Attorney-General, the ordinance should be permitted to run and in due course and without undue delay a procedural statute could be introduced into which all the modern concepts could be written. That statute could then receive the close intense scrutiny of this chamber in depth and breadth. 
In those circumstances I feel that the Senate should have no reluctance whatsoever, on a further examination of this proposition, to reverse its decision taken the other day. Again the honourable senators to whom I referred, more particularly those gentlemen who themselves cannot speak as I am speaking here in relation to their vote, should allow themselves to be persuaded by the arguments as they ebb and flow in this place and should have no hesitation, if they feel convinced, in voting accordingly, irrespective of what happened the other day. In those circumstances I think the citizens of Canberra will have the opportunity of operating immediately a modern evidentiary code which will apply to current proceedings which are now suspended pending finalisation of this matter, and they can look forward in not a very great length of time to having a criminal code and an ancillary procedural code, both of which will be legislated in this chamber. What I have stated represents the position which the Australian Democratic Labor Party took up the other day. It still represents our position and we propose to support the motion to rescind the resolution of the Senate taken some days ago. 
At the request of  Senator Gair  and pursuant to notice, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the moving of a motion relating to the order of the business on the notice paper: 
If the motion is carried I shall proceed to move the following motion: 
After the consideration of General Business Order of the Day No. 19, intervening General Business be postponed until after the consideration of Notice of Motion No. 11. 
Order of the day No. 19 relates to the appointment of Assistant Ministers. The Senate has agreed to the motion moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that we shall proceed with that matter after 8 p.m., in priority to other business, if it is not completed by 5.45 p.m. The effect of my second motion, if carried, would be that contingent upon the outcome of the debate on the appointment of Assistant Ministers notice of motion No. 11 would take precedence over notice of motion No. 1 standing in my name. Notice of motion No. 1 seeks the setting up of a select committee to inquire into Australian defence. The motion for suspension of Standing Orders is to enable the other motion to be moved. Those will be the terms, purport and intent of the subsequent motion. 
in reply - A number of matters arise here. The first is the fact that I am attempting to give notice of motion No. 11 an order of importance and priority above that of another notice of motion standing on the notice paper. Notice of motion No. 11 is an important motion by its nature. It seeks to rescind a resolution of the Senate and to revoke a discipline imposed by vote of this chamber on 2 citizens of this country and the people they represented. Nothing could be more serious than that a parliamentary reprimand or parliamentary discipline should be imposed on a citizen. If, in the opinion of any member of the chamber, or more particularly of the chamber itself, that discipline was wrongly imposed, it should not be allowed to remain for one moment longer than is reasonably practicable. That is why I give this notice of motion a degree of emphasis and priority that otherwise a motion would not attract. 
On 13th May the Senate adopted the report of the Committee of Privileges on the conduct of representatives of 2 newspapers in Australia regarding information that had come prematurely from the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. 
No. This is just on the time question. On 14th May the Senate, by resolution, imposed a certain discipline on 2 gentlemen. On 19th May I indicated in this chamber that I was concerned about the propriety of that procedure. I did that in a very short contribution in a debate late at night. The only body that can rectify this situation is the Parliament. I think the Parliament adjourned that night until we resumed only last week. 
Well, the next day. Therefore, I gave my notice at the first practicable opportunity when the Parliament resumed, as I thought it was proper to do if my proposition is correct, namely, that a parliamentary discipline that may have been wrongly imposed should not be allowed to rest unduly long on any citizen of this country. That is why I am now attempting to give the matter a degree of urgency of the kind I have indicated by attempting to superimpose it on other items on the notice paper. 
I will deal with that now. I have dealt with the first question. The second is that I purport to have notice of motion No. 11 take the place of notice of motion No. 1 standing in my name, which relates to the reference to a select committee of the Senate of the defence situation in Australia. That notice of motion has stood on the notice paper for quite  a  long time, as  Senator Poke  has said. But it has not been allowed to impede the discussion of other items of General Business. Many matters of General Business have been discussed ahead of it. As I mentioned in the Senate on a previous occasion, I arranged with  Senator Murphy  that we would be prepared to let notice of motion No. 1 be postponed until after other matters in which he was interested came forward. We have never allowed it to remain as a block in the path of the discussion of other matters. 
But at this stage we think, as we have though all along, that as time has gone on the importance or significance of that item has been eroded to some extent. That is why we have not insisted on it always taking its place according to its priority on the notice paper. Now we are prepared - 1 think  Senator Poke  made the point wellto ask that that item be discharged from the notice paper. In the event of that happening, I would then seek to replace it with the item which I now put forward to the Senate with the degree of urgency that I have tried to indicate must necessarily be attracted to it. That is the position. It is an important matter that I raise. I give it due importance. But I do not wish to clutter up the notice paper by taking the No. 1 position for it and retaining the No. 2 position for the other notice of motion standing in my name, which I am now prepared to have discharged from the notice paper. 
In addition, apart from the erosion of importance because of the passage of time, the Budget discussions will allow opportunities for debate on the defence situation. It is probably appropriate that that vehicle be used for the discussion of that matter. 
No, I will not. If the honourable senator is referring to the motion I have now moved, I point out that it has nothing to do with that. So, if leave is required, I will ask for leave to have notice of motion No. 1 standing in my name discharged from the notice paper. That is the reason why I ask the Senate to grant a suspension of Standing Orders and to support the motion I wish to move in order to allow the matter relating to the journalists to be discussed as soon as practicable. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Byrne's)  be agreed to. 
The ministerial statement which has been laid down in the Senate is important because it means that a departure in practice has been embarked upon and the Senate is to have an Assistant Minister, a senator appointed with that designation. I take the opportunity - perhaps it might be considered somewhat premature as was the announcement - of congratulating  Senator Marriott  who is the one designated in this chamber to be Assistant Minister to assist the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  We have here some of the elements of the executive system of government although we operate under the Westminster system of government, which is the system of Cabinet responsibility and not the executive type of government. But we have a strange phenomenon in that we have senators seated here as members of the Executive Council, and we shall now have a member of the Executive Council who is an Assistant Minister by that title. It does raise the whole question as to the wisdom of having the Executive represented in this chamber at all. However, that is not an exursion on which I propose to embark because that is accepted practice and it does operate in some sort of strange misalliance between the executive and the Westminster systems of government. 
What I am concerned about is the developing practice of Senate Ministers being required to assume a greater and greater burden of work and for that reason, if for no other reason, I welcome the appointment of an Assistant Minister who, even in this rather minor degree, can take some of the workload from the shoulders of, in this case,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson who administers a heavy portfolio in addition to being the Leader of the Government in this chamber. I think it is time we looked at the distribution of ministerial strength between the 2 Houses. The figures as we look at them over the years are illuminating. Ministers are appointed under the Ministers of State Act and the appointments go back to the federation. I, will seek leave later to incorporate the statement from which I read in Hansard. In 1901 under the Act the number of Ministers could not exceed 7, and in that year there were 6 Ministers in the House of Representatives and one in the Senate. There was one Assistant Minister carrying the title of vice-president. That position obtained until 1915 when the ratio was still 6 Ministers in the House of Representatives to one in the Senate. In 1915-16 the ratio moved to 7 Ministers in the House of Representatives and one in the Senate, one vice-president and one Assistant Minister. 
In 1916-17 the ratio had moved from 6 to 2. I might say that the vice-president and the Assistant Minister were both in the Senate. In 1916-17 the ratio had moved from 6 Ministers in the House of Representatives to 2 Ministers plus one Assistant Minister in the Senate. In the House of Representatives then there was one vicepresident and one Assistant Minister. In 1917 the position moved to 7 Ministers in the House of .Representatives and one in the Senate - I leave out reference to the Assistant Ministers and vice-presidents - and from 1918 to 1923 the ratio was 7 to 2. From 1923 to 1929 the ratio moved to 8 to 1. Between 1929 and 1932 there were 9 Ministers in the House of Representatives but none in the Senate. In 1935 there were 7 Ministers in the House of Representatives and one in the Senate, plus one vice-president in the Senate and 4 Assistant Ministers in the House of Representatives which appears to be a, ratio of 11 to 1 or 2. The story is an interesting one. In 1938 the ratio moved from 10 Ministers in the House of Representatives to one in the Senate plus these Assistant Ministers and people of that character. In 1939 the ratio was 9 to 2, in 1940 it was 9 to 2 and in 1940-41 it was 9 to 3- In 1941 when the Ministers of State Act was amended to provide that the number of Ministers may exceed 11 but not exceed 19, there were 14 Ministers in the House of Representatives and 5 in the Senate. Later that year there were 1 3 in the House of Representatives and 5 in the Senate. From then until 11th May 1951 the ratio was 14 Ministers in the House of Representatives and 5 in the Senate. 
Again the Ministers of State Act was amended in 1951 giving a permissible limit to the Ministry of 20. The ratio then was 15 to 5. Later in 1956 the Act was again amended to provide that the Ministry should not exceed 22. Those 2 additional Ministers were appointed in the House of Representatives which gave it one. Ministers while the Senate remained with 5. In 1964 the Act was amended and provided that the Ministry was not to exceed 25. Twenty Ministers were then appointed to the House of Representatives. The increase of 3 went to the House of Representatives and there was no increase in the Senate. In 1967 the Ministry was increased but was not to exceed 26. The additional Minister was appointed to the House of Representatives and the number in the Senate remained at 5. As recently as May this year the Ministers of State Act increased the number of Ministers to 27 and the extra Minister again went into the House of Representatives while the number in the Senate remained at 5. Now we have 6 Assistant Ministers of whom 5 are to be appointed to the House of Representatives and one to the Senate. This is a serious situation. This gross imbalance which is developing and which is being allowed to develop - apparently it is being deliberately developed - has very alarming consequences for this chamber. As more Ministers are appointed, as life becomes more complicated and as administration assumes greater responsibilities the area of operation of the Ministry becomes wider and deeper. 
Five Ministers in the Senate are now expected not only to administer their own portfolios but also to represent in this chamber 22 Ministers in another place. I think,  Mr Deputy President,  that it is almost a physical if not an intellectual impossibility for that work to be adequately done. Surely at some stage the Senate must take a stand and say: 'We require a better distribution of ministerial portfolios than obviously is operating and obviously will continue to operate. Now the Assistant Ministers are to be added, 5 of whom are in the House of Representatives. That will give ministerial representation of 27 in the House of Representatives and there will be 6 in the Senate. The proportion is dropping all the time with what I think are disastrous consequences for this chamber. 
Honourable senators appreciate that a tremendous work load is carried today under the Westminster system of government by Ministers generally. In addition to the administration of their departments they are required to represent an electorate, as members of one of the Houses of the legislature. They are required to present Bills relating to their departments, to defend and to propound their administration, to answer questions in relation to their ministries, to present the estimates for their departments and in addition they are required to do all the things done by Secretaries of State under the executive system of government. 
In addition to those duties that fall upon  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson,  Senator Drake-Brockman  and other Senate Ministers they are now required to represent in this chamber 27 Ministers or Assistant Ministers in another place. That is done by 6 members of the executive government in this chamber. It is becoming increasingly an impossibility and I do not think lt is fair to the Senate Ministers. Certainly it is not fair to the Senate. We have an extra problem in this chamber due to the advent of the proportional system of representation. It was designed to have and does have inevitable parliamentary consequences which are evident in the presence in this place of an intermediate political group such as the Australian Democratic Labor Party and 3 independent senators. This group has been produced here only by the proportional system of representation so that segment of the people who have an inadequate number in each electorate to elect a member shall find parliamentary representation. But the effect of that is that the Ministry does not control this place numerically as it does another place and an additional parliamentary burden is therefore thrown upon the Ministers in this place because of the absence of mathematical control of the chamber and of the numbers. That means that there is a tremendous amount of parliamentary man.oeuvering to be done. I do not use that expression in any sinister sense. 
It is the function and duty of the Government to present a legislative or administrative programme and to have it accepted by the Parliament. In a chamber such as this it can be done, with the present distribution of numbers only by negotiation, approach and very often by compromise. That adds an additional heavy burden to all the Ministers in this chamber, and a particularly heavy additional burden to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, the Leader of the Government in the Senate. These things should be considered when ministerial appointments are being made. The balance between the Senate and the House of Representatives should come under scrutiny, but apparently it does not. 
We regard it as a very cherished right, as it is held in all systems of government, that private members should have an opportunity to interrogate continuously and closely members of the Executive. It is a right that is freely available in this place. The maximum time is given for questioning, not only by questions on notice but also by questions without notice. Any Minister in this place in addition to ans wering questions about his own department has to attempt to answer questions about the departments he represents. Admittedly an interrogating senator knows that a Minister in his representative capacity cannot answer in great depth, but it is to the credit of Senate Ministers that they do not inevitably pass it down the line by saying: T will refer that to the Minister I represent. 
Ministers make a genuine attempt to satisfy the interrogation of senators, even in respect of the departments they represent, by supplying such information as comes to them. When the information sought is beyond their immediate knowledge they say that they will refer it to the Ministers they represent. But that does impose a tremendous strain and burden because they are answering questions on behalf of the Ministers they represent in relation to departments which they do not administer. Undoubtedly the response given to parliamentary questions is extremely sensitive, and if not properly done, it can involve a Ministry or the Government in considerable embarrassment. That is an additional responsibility and burden that rests upon Senate Ministers. 
I have had figures taken out as to the load of interrogation which is raised in this place. I shall ask for this table to be incorporated in Hansard later. In 1970 1,903 questions were asked in the Senate without notice of the 5 Senate Ministers. In the same year only 1,188 questions were asked in the House of Representatives where, at that stage, there would be 21 or 22 Ministers. I emphasise that some of the questions asked in the Senate would be asked of Ministers in a representative capacity. As honourable senators are aware, Senate Ministers do not merely throw the questions aside by saying that they will refer them to the Ministers they represent. They attempt to make an immediate response in the interests of the interrogators. We can therefore take it that those 1,903 questions in the main would be questions that placed demands on the responsible Ministers, even though speaking only in a representative capacity. 
Up to 20th May of this year in the Senate 940 questions were asked. Up to 6th May of this year in the House of Representatives only 494 questions were asked, or about half the number of questions asked in the Senate over about the same period. 
 Yes. 1 said that we are very generous with the time we allot for questions. I am not raising the point of whether we have too much or too little time for questions. I am saying that due to the generosity of the Standing Orders towards private members wishing to ask questions a tremendous burden is placed upon Ministers here. After all, it is not fair to honourable senators that except to an unavoidable extent they should be asked to accept answers from Ministers speaking in an unduly representative capacity which is becoming greater every day as the Ministry expands and the numbers of Ministers in the House of Representatives proliferate. 
In addition to all those considerations we have now developed a very advanced committee system which is operating in the Senate. I do not refer now particularly to standing committees. I am referring more particularly to the Estimates Committees. We have established a series of Estimates Committees which come into operation just before the Appropriation Bill is presented. As honourable senators know, the Estimates Committees in great depth examine the accounts of a particular department according to the provisions in the Appropriation Bill and in comparison with the estimated and actual expenditure for the previous year. 
Honourable senators who sit on the Estimates Committees are familiar with the system. The Ministers concerned appear before the committees accompanied by their appropriate departmental and subdepartmental officers. The members of a committee can interrogate at will. Each Minister will do his best to reply and will call upon the services of his departmental officers to assist him. Very often questions are directed to them, but in the main the burden of the responses is taken by the Minister who sits at the table with the committee in the presence of his departmental officers. This is not merely a gesture. It is a very real and penetrating examination of the Estimates. Unfortunately it has to be done only through the mouth and agency of another. 
No Minister who, in addition to his own portfolio, is trying to keep his eye on another 5 or 6 departments - particularly major departments - can fairly be expected to discharge that task as it should be discharged and to the satisfaction of committee members. In saying that I should make it clear that Ministers who appear before the Estimates Committees attempt to answer questions to the best of their ability, irrespective of whether the questions relate to their own departments or to the departments of the Ministers they represent. They attempt to make a reasonable presentation to the committee and to answer the questions directed to them. 
I put forward a very serious suggestion. I see no reason why Senate committees should be satisfied merely with the presence before them of representative Ministers. I pay due respect to those Ministers who, speaking on behalf of other Ministers, have appeared before the committees and to the best of their ability, and no doubt as a result of very hard work, have attempted to command the knowledge that may assist the committees. But at the best it is only a second hand exercise. I think that the Minister in charge of the department should appear before those committees. After all, if I were administering a department which was to be probed in depth and with intensity, as is done by the estimates committees, I would not only think about it but would welcome the opportunity of myself appearing and preenting my estimates and answering any questions on them. Whatever confidence I might have in the representative Minister, I would still prefer to do it myself. In those circumstances I think the Senate should seriously consider the question of extending invitations to Ministers sitting in another place to come before the Senate committees and present their estimates and answer interrogation by committee members. 
Estimates Committee C, of which I am a member and whose  chairman  is  Senator Laucke,  has a number of departments under its jurisdiction. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  is the Senate 
Minister responsible for the other departments dealt with and naturally his department comes within that Committee's jurisdiction. But he also represents the Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for Labour and National Service, the Minister for External Territories and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Those are major departments and I see no reason why  Senator Wright  should have to do his best, as he does, to strive to make some reasonable presentation before the Committee in relation to those major departments. 
If the committee system is to work I do not see why, as we say in law, we should not have the best evidence. Why should we take second hand or hearsay evidence? Therefore, I intimate to the Senate at this stage and to  Senator Laucke,  the  Chairman  of Estimates Committee C which scrutinises those departments, that at a preliminary meeting of that Committee, when it is called into being for the purpose of examining the current estimates. I shall move, whether as to all departments or some of them at the beginning that an invitation be extended to the appropriate House of Representatives Minister to appear before the Committee and present his own estimates and answer interrogation. I do not know what will be the response of the Minister concerned or the response of the House of Representatives. I do not know whether the Committee will even attempt by any process to require the Ministers to be there should they decline to attend. I do not think the Committee would or should take such action. But I think that a Minister in another place should welcome the opportunity of the extension of such an invitation and of presenting and defending his estimates. 
I find grave concern at the increasing disparity in the ministerial strength in this place compared with that in another place. Something will have to be done about it if this Senate is to be acquainted with the details of Government administration at the best possible level. What is to be the end of this process if it continues? Has the number 5 some magic about it so far as ministerial representation in this place is concerned? The number of Ministers here has not changed for 20 years. Is it that 5 Senate Ministers were considered adequate in 1951 and that 5 Senate Ministers are still considered adequate in 1971 while the Ministry has increased from 19 to 27? If the Ministry has been expanded, it must have been expanded for proper and legitimate purposes because of the extension of the arms of administration and the things which come within the embracing arms and solicitude of the administration. If that is so, obviously life has become more complex and more matters require parliamentary consideration. Therefore the Senate must be given the opportunity of playing its proper role in the investigation of the whole of Government administration. Ministers in this place should not be so over-burdened with representative capacities that it is physically impossible for them in any rational way to command such knowledge as can be of assistance to this chamber. 
I support the Bill because at least it will give us further assistance in this place. The Senate should be articulate in expressing its considerable and growing concern at the increasing imbalance in ministerial responsibility in the 2 chambers. The Government should give serious consideration to reducing this imbalance and taking the burden off Senate Ministers so that it will be possible for the Senate to be better enlightened on the matters that must come before it. The Democratic Labor Party subports this Bill, and with the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard the 2 tables to which I referred earlier. 

<graphic href="049232197108264_28_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="049232197108264_29_1.jpg"></graphic>

I move: 
That the Resolution of 13 May 1971, adopting the Report of the Committee of Privileges presented to the Senate on that day insofar as it adopted the recommendation of the Committee that - on attendance before the Senate 

 Mr J. R. Walsh and  Mr H.  B. Rothwell. on their own behalf and on behalf of their publishers be reprimanded by the Presiding Officer, be rescinded. 
That the reprimand administered by the 
Senate on 14 May 1971, to  Mr J.  R. Walsh and  Mr H.  B. Rothwell on their own behalf and on behalf of their publishers by the Deputy-President in pursuance of the aforesaid Resolution of the Senate be revoked. (Notice given 17 August 1971). 
This motion arises in rather unusual circumstances as it is a motion for the rescission of a resolution of the Senate and for the revocation of a discipline imposed by  the Senate on the 2 gentlemen whose names are mentioned in the motion. The whole of these proceedings took place before the Senate as it was constituted prior to and up to 30th June this year when, following the periodic election for half of the Senate, the personnel of the Senate changed, a number of honourable senators having retired and a number of new honourable senators having joined this chamber and subsequently been sworn in. Therefore we have today a Senate constituted by those who were parties to the proceedings which I now have under scrutiny and by those who were not parties to this matter but are asked now to cast judgment in relation to it as this debate proceeds and as any resolutions are taken. However, let it be said that the Senate is a continuum. By the nature of the Senate under the Constitution it has a consistent and persistent life and although the personnel may change the Senate itself as an institution continues unbroken in the sense that it is not the 25th or 26th Parliament, although the Senate may operate in successive parliaments and does. The Senate itself persists, subject to periodic elections, and it goes on therefore in an unbroken stream discharging its duties as an integral part of the legislature and of the legislative process. 
But because there are honourable senators here who were not here when these proceedings took place, which are now subject to the scrutiny 1 propose to give them, 1 think that as these honourable senators are to be asked to pass judgment in this matter, and I trust individually, it is only right and proper that I should inform the Senate even though briefly of the background of the whole situation so that honourable senators may be informed on the matter to which they will be asked to direct their minds and on which they will be asked to pass judgment. Therefore I trespass on the time of the Senate ever so briefly to indicate the background of this whole matter. 
As honourable senators will know there was constituted last year, and is still operating, the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. That Committee has now brought in its report. Apparently the report was in course of preparation and had not been released. Under the Standing Orders, in those cir cumstances neither the report nor any part of it can be disclosed or made public until it is first reported to the Senate. However, some part of the report appeared to emerge in 2 newspapers in Australia with a reference in terms which indicated that the report or part of it had been sighted and quoted. That was regarded with very grave concern by the Senate as probably constituting a breach of privilege of this chamber. 
As honourable senators know, there is a special committee of the Senate, the Committee of Privileges, which overlooks these matters and which, by direction of the Senate is entrusted with the responsibility of giving particular consideration and attention to, and particularly scrutinising, any allegations of breaches of privilege of the Senate or the Parliament that might be referred to it. In view of the publication of these reports,  Senator Marriott,  who is  Chairman  of the select committee in question, moved on 4th May the following motion, which appears at page 1 of the subsequent report of the Committee of Privileges which was presented to this chamber: 
That the article on page 1 of the 'Sunday Australian' of 2nd May 1971, and the article on page 845 of the 'Sunday Review' of 2nd May 1971, dealing wilh the proposed report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in Australia, be referred to the Committee of Privileges for investigation and report. 
That motion was presented to the Senate and carried, and the matter stood duly referred to the Committee of Privileges which subsequently sat on the matter, heard evidence in terms which I shall later describe and presented in its report to the Parliament. As honourable senators approach the consideration of this matter, which is a motion for the rescision of the resolution of the Senate that the report of the Committee of Privileges be adopted, they will see that the motion is in 2 parts, the first part relating to the adoption of the finding of fact of the Committee and the second part relating to the adoption of the recommendation of the Committee as to the punishment of the 2 gentlemen concerned and those whom they represented. 
I assure honourable senators that if they are to pass judgment on this matter they should in no sense regard this as what we call in law a stare decisus. That is a term used for a case which, having been determined by a superior court - probably the highest of the superior courts - stands then among the decided cases and is there to be observed and followed. Unless it is specifically overruled, as sometimes happens, it stands as a legal block against any departure from the principles therein enunciated. I am suggesting that in this case the decision of the Senate on this matter is not a stare decisus. No appeal lies from a decision of this tribunal. The only appeal, in a sense, may be a reconsideration by this tribunal of its own decision. If a determination is made by a court there is an appeal to a superior court or a series of superior courts until one reaches the highest tribunal, and that is a right which may be availed of by litigants. In this case, of course, there is no appeal from this body and, therefore, if this body has erred in any way it is only this body that is positioned, equipped and entitled to rectify the error. 
Therefore I am asking honourable senators who may come to a consideration of this matter not to be affected or to feel that in any sense they are bound by the decision which was made by the Senate when it last looked at this matter. It is open to the Senate to reconsider the matter. Due notice having been given, the matter is properly within the forms of the Senate, and if it is proper to be reconsidered natural justice may demand that it be reconsidered. The obligation lies on honourable senators to regard it in that light. It is a matter of individual senatorial responsibility. I take it that, this being a matter in which the Senate is acting judicially, or quasi-judicially, there should not be any firm party decisions on this matter. It is not a matter on which a party can decide how its members should vote. In other words, to use a cliche, the whips should properly be withdrawn from honourable senators because, this being a rare occasion on which the Senate operates judicially, individual senators should have the untrammelled right to form their own decision and arrive at their own conclusion. 
No. I am not deciding. I am merely suggesting that it is appropriate. I think that  Senator Cavan  agh, who has some sensitivity in this field, would agree with my proposition that this is  a  matter on which individual senators would feel disposed, obliged and entitled to cast a free vote according to the evidence displayed before them or the principles they thought should be followed in this case. Beyond that I do not go. That is a matter for individual senators and parties. 
Thank you very much.  Senator. I  would hope that the whole party would vote for it, but I would hope that in doing so honourable senators would vote as individuals. In other words, I hope that they would not vote as a party but that all members of a party would look the same way if it were established that there had been a denial of natura! justice. 
Exactly. That is right. 
 I was going to develop that as part of my presentation, as I concede that that is an integral and necessary part of the case that I would present for the support and, I trust, the approval and adoption by the Senate. I would ask honourable senators also not to allow their minds to be diverted by the fact that the punishment in this case appears to be a very light punishment. In relative terms, possibly it was a light punishment. It was  a  severe reprimand.  Senator Gair  said that it was a very light punishment. That was his opinion. I suppose that, in relative terms, it is a light punishment because the Senate had power to impose very much more severe and heavy penalties. But any discipline imposed by a chamber of the national legislature is by its nature, in my concept, a severe punishment though relative to other things it might be considered a mild and light punishment. 
But I do not want the fact that this was only, in any terms, apparently  a  mild punishment to divert honourable- senators from the fact that the operative factor here is the fact of the discipline, the fact of the punishment, not the quantum of the punishment. If, for example, the gentlemen concerned, having been called to the Bar of the Senate, had been sent to prison if that power rested in the Senate, or had been heavily fined, then I feel that if I put up a proposition here that they had not been given the right to be heard as they should have been heard, honourable senators would feel that a very strong case would have to be made out why the matter should not be reviewed. I do not think that case has to be any stronger because the penalty appears to be a light penalty. 
It is a penalty, it is a disability and it is a disadvantage to the persons on whom it was imposed and, coming from this Parliament, 1 think that in absolute terms it is nevertheless a severe penalty in anybody's language. A reprimand from the national Parliament is quite a grave reflection on any citizen and one which none of us would wish to bear. If administered, it is a reprimand that one carries through the whole of one's life. I was concerned about this when the report was brought into the Senate. I shall detail to honourable senators the circumstances surrounding that. J feel, candidly, that I should have done something about it then. I want to say quite clearly: f think the Senate has erred in this matter. 
As one of the senators who was sitting in this place on that day and at that time I think that I am what is called in law .ticeps criminis.' I feel that 1 also must bear my share of responsibility - if my proposition is correct - that this matter was not handled at that time. 
No, I am not suggesting that. 
I will say just what 1 am doing, lt is not that. 1 am not suggesting that. I am merely saying that the Senate, when it assembled and when these gentlemen appeared before the Bar and when the report was presented, adopted a wrong procedure and as a senator who sat in this chamber at that time I must accept my share of the responsibility for what it did. All I can say is that I was conscious of it, and when the matter was raised in a slightly different context 4 days later in this chamber I said: 
I have been very concerned about certain aspects of this matter. I have been concerned as to whether, the Senate, in operating in the whole of this matter within the Standing Orders and precedents, operated properly in that it did not ask those who were charged with breach of privilege to show cause before this chamber. I think that it is most important that the whole matter of the rights of the Press, and so on and so forth, should be referred to the Privileges Committee. Therefore, I strongly endorse the motion which is now before the Senate. 
So I did advert at that time to a matter that was gravely concerning me. That was the day immediately before the Senate rose for the recess. We returned only a week ago. Under the Standing Orders I had to give notice of the motion I am now moving and 7 days had to elapse before the motion could be presented. Therefore, I gave notice on the first day the Senate sat and today is the first available day on which it could be debated. 1 did that because anything that involves the rights and liberties of the individual is a very serious matter and one in which delays and procrastination cannot be accepted or tolerated. Consequently, at the first opportunity I have moved in this matter. That is why the matter now comes before the Senate. 
Following the matter being raised and then referred to the Privileges Committee on the motion of  Senator Marriott  to which 1 referred, the matter was considered by the Privileges Committee. It sat for some days and called evidence and, among other witnesses, it called  Mr H.  B. Rothwell, publisher and editor of the 'Sunday Australian', and  Mr J.  R. Walsh, editor of the 'Sunday Review'. These 2 gentlemen were heard and the Committee brought in its report which was furnished to the Senate on 13th May 1971. The report - I take it that honourable senators have a copy before them - read in part as follows: 
The Committee, as a 'result of its consideration of the relevant documents and its examination of witnesses, has resolved unanimously that the publication, in 'The Sunday Review' and 'The Sunday Australian', of contents of  a  draft report of  a  Select Committee of the Senate, prior to its presentation to the Senate, constitutes  a  breach of the privileges of the Senate. Premature publication  of a.  report, or the contents of  a  document containing  a  draft report from  a  Senate Committee  is a  breach of privilege, unless the Senate  hu  approved that course or has authorised the Committee to publish the same. It is no answer to suggest that the consequences of such action are avoided if only part of the report is published or if extracts are prefaced by words indicating anticipation of Committee recommendations. 
The report goes on to canvass authorities and then the Committee reports to the Senate as follows: 
The Committee also considers that the Senate has the power, by order, to find a person guilty of a breach of privilege. 
This is what the Committee reported: 
That the publication, prior to presentation to the Senate, of contents of the Report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in Australia, in 'The Sunday Australian' of 2nd May, 1971 and in 'The Sunday Review' of 2nd May 1971, constitutes a breach of the privileges of the Senate. 
That the editor and publisher of each of the newspapers are the persons who are to be held responsible and culpable in such breach of privilege. 
That the editor or managing editor, and the publishers, of the newspapers were - 
The Sunday Australian' - 
Editor: H. B. Rothwell 
Publisher: Mirror Newspapers Ltd 
The Sunday Review' - 
Editor:  Mr J.  R. Walsh 
Publisher: IPEC Ltd. 
That the Senate has the power, in the enforcement of its privileges, to commit to prison, to fine, to reprimand or admonish, or otherwise to withdraw facilities held, by courtesy of the Senate, in and around its precincts. 
AND RECOMMENDS - 
That, having regard to the nature of the breaches of privilege in this case, and the circumstances in which they occurred,  Mr J.  R. Walsh and  Mr H.  S. Rothwell be required to attend before the Senate, on their own behalf and on behalf of their publishers, to be reprimanded by the Presiding Officer. 
THE COMMITTEE FURTHER REPORTS - 
That it considers that any such breach should, in the future, save in exceptional circumstances, be met by a much heavier penalty, such as a substantial fine, but, as this is the first such breach to come to the attention of the Senate, the Committee considers that the situation would bc adequately met by severe reprimand. 
In moving this motion 1 do not purport - nor is it my intention - to canvass the merits of the case. As I say, that report came out in 2 parts. There was a finding of fact- a combined finding of fact and law - that there had been a breach of privilege, and a recommendation. Subsequently a motion was moved by  Senator Branson  raising the matter of the means by which this leakage of information, if it was established, occurred. There was also on the 
Senate notice paper a motion by  Senator Murphy  for a reference of the whole matter of the privileges of the Senate to the Privileges Committee. Subsequently a motion combining  Senator Murphy's  motion for a reference to the Committee and  Senator Branson's  motion was placed before the Senate and the 2 motions combined were referred to the Committee of Privileges and they stand there referred. That Committee is looking into this whole matter of the source of the leakage and things of that nature. 
It is not my intention to canvass the merits of the case. What I am canvassing here tonight is a series of propositions which I will put succinctly thus: In the whole of this matter the Senate was acting judicially. The Senate, or any chamber of the legislature, is not a judicial body, but the Senate is a body which in this circumstance was acting judicially. That is the first proposition. If that is so and if it was acting judicially, it is required to observe the procedures and forms of a body acting judicially. That is the second proposition. To fail, in those circumstances, so to act is a denial of natural justice. 
 That may be so. I said that there is a degree of culpability in the Senate, and the legal men of the chamber are not excluded from that reference. I happen to be a legal man myself, although not in the area of eminence to which the honourable senator referred. Thirdly, in this matter there was a denial of natural justice. There having been a denial of natural justice in the operations of a tribunal acting judicially, the proceedings, insofar as there has been a denial, should be quashed. That, in brief, is the series of propositions that I place before the Senate. 
 I am coming to that. The denial of natural justice was this: When the report was presented to the Senate it was adopted in toto on 13 th May by resolution of the Senate. The report was in 2 parts: Firstly, there was the rinding of fact that there had been a breach of privilege by the 2 gentlemen concerned and those on whose behalf they appeared; and secondly, there was this recommendation: 
That, having regard to the nature of the breaches of privilege in this case, and the circumstances in which they occurred,  Mr J.  R. Walsh and  Mr H.  B. Rothwell be required to attend before the Senate, on their own behalf and on behalf of their publishers, to be reprimanded by the Presiding Officer. 
I think that the Senate, in passing the resolution to adopt the finding of fact, did not err in the sense that one might disagree with the finding but the Senate, by resolution, was prepared to adopt it. The Committee of Privileges has been constituted by the Senate, almost as a jury as a tribunal of fact might be regarded as an integral part of the criminal or even the civil judicial process, as a tribunal of fact to find the facts. The fact having been found, it is then taken into consideration by the court for subsequent action in pursuance of the decision or the verdict. 
No, 1 am not - not at all. Therefore I think the recommendation of the Committee was one it was entitled to make within the terms of the reference and within the terms of the Standing Orders. Whether or not on the facts the Committee should have made the recommendation it did is another matter. I do not canvass that. All I say is that there is a standing order, which was recently amended, regarding the release of evidence given before committees of the Senate which provides for the extraordinary proposition that such evidence can be released for inspection only by resolution of the Senate or by the Committee itself. I think that is the proposition in general terms. 
I do not know how one would operate such a standing order. If. for example, a committee of the Senate refused to publish its evidence or to make it available and one member of the Committee thought that the evidence should be published and moved a motion to that effect in this place, how would honourable senators be able to decide whether the evidence should or should not be published if they were not able to see it? Yet honourable senators cannot see it until the Senate has passed the resolution. There is an extraordinary contradiction within that standing order. The Senate is asked to make a definitive judgment as to whether it is proper to release evidence; but only when the judgment is passed, when the motion is carried in the Senate and judgment is made can evidence then be seen by the senators, apart from those senators serving on the Committee. That seems to me to be an extraordinary contradiction. However, the point is that the Senate did endow the Privileges Committee to make a finding of fact and the Senate adopted the finding. 
The next part comes in the Senate's motion to adopt the recommendation of the Committee. After all, like a judicial proceeding with a tribunal of fact embedded in it - a criminal or a civil jury - a tribunal of fact finds the facts and then the matter goes back to the judicial presiding officer who will operate from then on. The Senate was the disciplinary body. It constituted the Committee to be the fact finding body and adopted its finding of fact, but the discipline did not rest within the Committee itself. It rested within the Senate. Therefore all the Committee could do was make a recommendation, which it did. I think the Senate erred grievously at this point. When the Senate adopted the recommendation of the Committee as regards punishment, it adopted it in those precise terms; that those  2  gentleman be called to the Bar and reprimanded. I think it is unfortunate - no more than that - that the Committee framed its recommendation in those terms. I think the Committee should have framed it in terms that the gentlemen be called to the Bar to show cause, why they should not be reprimanded or otherwise dealt with. But the Senate finished in the position that it adopted the recommendation that these men should be called to the Bar and reprimanded. 
Very well. I hope to do so later on. These gentlemen were called to the Bar and they were immediately reprimanded by the Presiding Officer of the Senate on 14th May in quite explicit terms. That reprimand was administered personally to the gentleman concerned. I refer honourable senators to page 1935 of the Senate Hansard report of 14th May. Under the heading 'Privilege' it states: 
in reply - I take it that in rising at this time I will be closing the debate, and I propose to do that very briefly. First of all, I express my indebtedness to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in particular for his erudite and calm investigation of the propositions which I considered it my duty to put forward and for his presentation of the relevant authorities. The Attorney-General has brought to the consideration of this matter that calm, professional approach which is really the type of approach that should have occupied the Senate during this debate. 
It is strange that the main allegation that was made by me initially has not been adverted to at all by many speakers. I made no challenge to the deliberations of the Privileges Committee or to its findings. I expressly said that the conviction as recorded by the Committee should stand, and at no stage did I challenge it. For  Senator Willesee  or anybody else to claim that I challenged in any way the conduct or findings of the Privileges Committee is a complete misapprehension and is certainly a mis-statement of my position. My complaint was about the conduct of the Senate; that after the Senate had adopted the finding of fact of the Committee and recorded the conviction, if I can use that term, and before sentence it did not give these 2 gentlemen the opportunity to be heard. I still say that the authorities I presented are authorities that must be compelling to this chamber. Any attempt to say that we are not a judicial body and therefore we are not bound by judicial procedures is only a partial statement of the truth. Of course, we are not a judicial body; but we purported to act judicially. In those circumstances, we were under an obligation to have regard for judicial procedures, and it is in our departure from the observance of those procedures that, in my submission, a violation of natural justice has occurred. I regret that the proposition that I put forward has not been met squarely and face on by the honourable senators who have participated in this debate. 
However, I am concerned about 2 things. 1 am concerned about the type of speech made by  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Willesee  from the Opposition. This matter was raised in a completely non-political atmosphere and in a nonpersonal way. It was raised purely as a professional approach to a matter of great moment to the Senate. This was the atmosphere and the context in which I presented my arguments. But unfortunately those 2 honourable senators did not see fit to conduct themselves in this debate and discuss the matter in the same atmosphere as the one in which I projected my propositions.  Senator Willesee  suggested that 1 had raised these proceedings as a belated afterthought, although I had expressly stated in my speech that 4 days after this matter was raised 1 voiced my concern about the procedures in this place. I mentioned that in the course of my speech and I quoted from Hansard what I said on that occasion. Therefore, any suggestion that this was an afterthought is completely wrong and totally improper. But the Senate rose the day after I had sopken - again as I said in the course of my speech. In the meantime I examined such authorities as I was able to command and on the first day the Senate resumed 1 put my motion down. Any suggestion that this was in any sense or to any degree an afterthought is totally inaccurate. It was virtually an immediate response of concern which was carried into operation and execution at the first parliamentary opportunity. 
I now want to say something about the speech of  Senator James  McClelland. For the first time since I have been in this place my motives in raising a proposition have been impunged by an honourable senator. I do not welcome such an imputation. No other honourable senator in the years that I have been here has seen fit to do that. However, in some way  Senator James  McClelland suggested that I had brought on this matter purely because I was grandstanding. I said in my speech that 1 do not know the gentlemen concerned and I do not know their newspapers. In fact, I have hardly seen the gentlemen. I think I saw them casually on the day that they appeared at the Bar. That is all. To suggest that I was inspired by motives other than a proper regard for the dignity of this place and the rights of these citizens is to impute to me the type of motive that I hope never does inspire me and has never been suggested does inspire my conduct. For that reason I resent very strongly and very bitterly the suggestion made by  Senator James  McClelland. At all times my conduct has been dictated by a regard for or perhaps a sensitivity for the rights of these 2 people. I feel that my regard and my sensitivity has not been met tonight. I think that there was among the members of the Privileges Committee a desire to protect the deliberations of the Committee, unfortunately, rather than to face the issue as to the conduct of this Senate. That is what is in question - not the conduct of the Privileges Committee but the conduct and mode of operation of the Senate. 1 have little more to say. 1 welcome the attention that was given to me in my necessarily long, detailed and somewhat technical presentation of my case. It will be no discredit to the Senate if on a calm consideration of the proposition it should find that there has been a violation of natural justice. That is something of which this Senate should be particularly conscious. If this is done honourable senators will see this as an opportunity to rectify what has taken place; and a process of rectification should be undertaken. 
I think that the Senate is all the better for this matter having been discussed and ventilated. I think that honourable senators who have contributed to the debate in that manner and in that spirit have done a great deal for the Senate and will do a great deal for the Senate in the new mode in which it is beginning to operate. It was important, and it remains important, that the Senate and its conduct must be above public reproach and public criticism. That the Senate should have a sensitivity on this matter is extremely important. It is  important that the Senate fortify the respect in which it is held whatever decision is made on this matter. The decision itself may not be so material if the decision is made calmly and objectively on the facts. But that the debate should have taken place was of supreme importance and I am indebted to honourable senators who today permitted the suspension of Standing Orders so that this matter could be transferred above other matters on the notice paper and debated tonight. I commend the motion to the support of honourable senators. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Byrne's)  be agreed to. 
1 ask for leave to withdraw notice of motion No. 1, General Business, standing in my name. 
by leave - This is, in a sense, an historic day following an equally historic judgment of the High Court. The judgment has opened up tremendous constitutional vistas which no doubt will be exploited - certainly explored - in the years that are to come. Firstly I should like to express my personal indebtedness to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  for making his statement to the Senate on a complex matter in such lucid terms and in such a timely fashion, informing more particularly those who are not professionally equipped as to the basis and implications of the judgment of the High Court. I think it is to the credit of the Attorney-General that he couched his statement in terms which could be followed by most of us. Even those of us who may be professionally equipped found difficulty in assessing the real meaning of this very big, complex and weighty judgment of the High Court which has just been circulated to some honourable senators. 
This is an historic judgment - because it sets out the principle which is to be followed by courts in opening these new constitutional horizons. The Court said: 
The method of constitutional interpretation is the same as that with which we have been long familiar with the common law. The law develops case by, case, the Court in each case deciding so much as is necessary to dispose of the case before it. The limits' of the power can only be ascertained authoritatively by a course of decision in which the application of general statements is illustrated by example' . . . 
Of course frequently in order to dispose of  a  case the Court must state and discuss general principles or express concepts which are of value in subsequent cases. But that is a very different thing from setting out to decide at one blow the full ambit of a constitutional power. Indeed, to my mind one of the fundamental errors into which the Court was led by the reserved powers doctrine when deciding Huddart Parker v. Moorehead (supra) was the endeavour to do that very thing rather than merely to decide whether the law which it had before it was a law with respect to the topic of granted power. 
In other words, although this judgment goes specifically to the determination of the issue before the Court, nevertheless the Court did advert to the latent authority and power that lie within the corporation head of power in the Constitution. How that will be used is now only a matter of speculation, but I do think that the Senate can come to the conclusion that the judgment opens a new era in Australian consti tutional history, perhaps-in Australian constitutional relations - between the Commonwealth and the States, and as to the possibilities that now present themselves for the development of this nation. 1 think one rather alarming fact emerges from this judgment and from the effect of this judgment: This judgment upset a decision of the Court which had stood among the stare decisus cases for 62 years. That in itself is something which does not happen frequently. One of the judicial concepts in upsetting an authority is the extent to which it has been judicially regarded and examined and withstood any alteration over a long period. But as we move further from the time of the actual setting down of the Constitution, and as there is a consistent and persistent refusal to re-look at the Constitution by way of referenda or constitutional amendment of some kind or another, more and more the area of power is moving from this Parliament into judicial tribunals, and it was left to the High Court to make this very big advance for Australia. This advance in the interpretation of power probably more properly should have been left to lie within the province of the legislature if the legislature, under the Constitution, had had the opportunity of so acting. Therefore in my view this highlights the need for the Constitutional Review Committee to be reactivated and for the recommendations of that Committee to find at least discussion and perhaps acceptance in the Parliament of the Commonwealth. I do not think it is a good thing that such powers should be left to reside in the High Court due to the failure of the other constitutional processes to operate and give viability to the Constitution. 
As I have said, the vistas that open up with this re-interpretation of sections of the Constitution are vast. The corporation power in modern life, with the proliferation of corporations and the increasing sophistication of the corporate concept, creates situations which at the moment we cannot altogether conceive, much less imagine, and how this increasing sophistication, married to this re-interpretation of power to deal with the corporation, will emerge in the coming life of Australia is very difficult even to conjecture. I can imagine that not only restrictive trade practices or control of consumer selling and things of that nature but also, for example, consumer credit, that is, hire purchase operated through corporations may well be an area in which the Commonwealth finds itself equipped with power and into which it may elect at some time to move, operating under this interpretation and re-interpretation of its power, to bring such operations within the ambit of the banking control of the Commonwealth. These are the types of speculation that are very pleasant for legal academics to indulge in. 
I welcome the statement by the AttorneyGeneral and also the immediate reaction of the Government to the need to move to fill this vacuum which has been created by the interpretation, because the need for the legislation which has now been disallowed was very great. That need would become more compelling as day follows day. No doubt this poses a very big problem in drafting for the Government, the Attorney-General and officers of the drafting department. I have little doubt that a competent and viable Act will now emerge which will achieve what was set out to be achieved before but which has been declared to be impossible of achievement in its present form. We look forward to the early presentation of the legislation and, I hope, its early passage through the Parliament. 

I move: 
That after consideration of General Business, Order of the Day No. 1, intervening General Business be postponed until after consideration of Notice of Motion No. 10. 
Yes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As has been said by other honourable senators this Bill to abolish capital punishment in Territories under the control of the Commonwealth is an important measure which is introduced at the insistence of  Senator Murphy.  I indicate that this does not appear to be basically a moral question. I think it would be a common moral acceptance that human life may be taken morally defensively in 3 circumstances. The first would be in the case of justifiable and adequate self-defence; the second, in the case of a just war: and the third, in the case of a crime for which a person has been legally and properly condemned by the tribunals to which he . has been subjected. As I have said this does not necessarily emerge in most cases as a moral question. It may emerge as a question of social philosophy or of personal solicitude but I do not think that it is a moral question in any sense. 
Exactly - provided one accepts that. I suggest to  Senator Wheeldon  that these are moral propositions which might find fairly universal acceptance. It is against that background that I project my own proposition. I regard this matter as being one of social philosophy and one which does not particularly impinge upon the moral situation. In my concept, this matter goes to the question of the philosophy of punishment. Of course that is an extraordinarily important social question because the preservation of law and order, the preservation of the rights of people, the insistence on the responsibility and the observance of the rights of others are things - and those alone - which make the conduct of a community possible. After all, where crime intervenes there is a disturbance to the social order. Where there is a disturbance in the most violent way by the destruction of human life then there is a tremendous trauma and a tremendous violation of public order and of individual and community rights. Therefore - the question of what action should be taken in the event of the greatest trauma of all which is the destruction of the life of another with its social consequences and by what methods this should be prevented appears to me to be the fulcrum of the whole matter. In any case, it seems to me that punishment for any offence might have 3 characteristics. It can have the characteristic of a deterrent; of an attempt to retrieve the situation and the life of the perpetrator; or the characteristic of correction - that is to bring a person to realise the seriousness of the offence. 
1 am speaking of punishment duly inflicted according to the courts within a properly organised community. In that situation we take it that revenge is not one of the components which would activate public authorities in inflicting punishment. If we had to discuss that matter we would be discussing a society whose base was itself morally unjustifiable and indefensible. That is not the society which we are discussing in the Australian context. Let us look at the 3 aspects of punishment in the brief manner in which I have outlined them. Deterrent is always a matter of speculation among those who have had the practice of the criminal law, who have been connected with penology or who have tried to retrieve those who have been involved in crime. It has always been . a matter of speculation as to what effect actual advertence to the consequences of the offence have on. the perpetrator in the course of perpetration of the offence. I think it is generally accepted that usually it has no effect at all. In a crime in which the mind is suffused by passion, by drugs or by alcohol - if those were not to an extent to provide a proper defence in law - or is suffused by some other motive, usually the mind does not advert to the legal consequences of the action which is to be undertaken or is undertaken either by deliberation or with spontaneity. For some strange reason it may be that the mind does not advert, or having adverted, it seems possible that those consequences will not attach either because the perpetrator will not be discovered or, in some strange way, the punishment ultimately will not be inflicted or will be avoided. Therefore I think punishment as a deterrent to a particular person possibly does not have a very great effect. 
I can remember only one case in my home State in which it was suggested that perhaps the consequences may have had an effect at least on the place of the perpetration of the crime. There was a case in Queensland in which it was suggested that people had come over the border from New South Wales into Queensland and may well have decided to perpetrate the crime of murder in Queensland, where there was no capital punishment, as against in New South Wales where there was in order to avoid the direct consequence  if  they should be discovered, as they wereThat is the only case of which I am aware in which the actual consequences may have been not only within the consciousness of the' perpetrator of the crime but also affected the subsequent course of action. Therefore I wonder whether a person, in a crime of capital deliberation, has in mind at any time what may be the consequences if the act is continued and perpetrated to its conclusion. I strongly doubt whether that does enter his mind at all. 
Recovery of the prisoner is another matter. The modern concepts of penology lean towards trying to retrieve the character and personality of those who are and who have been involved in crime. That is an extraordinarily humane approach, and it is the proper approach. The Scriptures say: Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool'. Let nobody think that any other person is completely beyond the possibility of reparation or of retrieval. There may be by, if nothing else, miracles of grace an opportunity for people to find themselves, to discover their true personalities, to become aware of the nature of the crimes they have committed and to completely change their individuality and personality. That has happened. It can always happen. Perhaps with the application of modern methods of psychological, psychiatric and social approaches to these people it possibly will happen in increasing numbers. 
It is only in recent times that the world has really become conscious of the aids which are necessary and which may be made available to recover those who have been involved in crime. It is only now that the techniques and the practices of medicine, particularly psychiatric and social medicine, are being applied in these areas. lt is only now that new environments are being provided and that new methods of teaching and retrieving are being discovered and applied. Now would seem to be the time when we should give this scientific approach the opportunity of displaying itself to the full so that even in those cases where one's personal disposition might be to truncate a life for a life truncated one. might not be disposed to support the death penalty. Surely this is not the time' to move in an area of hopelesness  of 

 Death Penalty recovery. We should look to the new horizons of opportunity. Science has offered us possibilities that were not there before. Surely this is the time to grasp with both hands these opportunities as they are presented and to try to preserve those lives which otherwise would be severed but which, in the light of this new learning and this new knowledge, may be recovered and made useful and so retrieved. Therefore I think it would be unfortunate if a Bill of this character, which may open those horizons to us and which may open those opportunities to so many, should be resisted.  1  deal now with the punitive content in the imposition of criminal punishments, whether by way of the death penalty or by way of ordinary punishments. We do not know the real purpose behind punishment. A punishment that is inflicted heavily upon the perpetrator of an offence may well act as a deterrent to others, but if my first proposition is correct - that is, that the perpetrator does not advert to either the possibility of punishment or to the possibility that he may be detected - the punishment whether inflicted on him or on others so that it will be a red signal held out to others could have no effect at all. I think that is an unfortunate conclusion that we must draw from the experiences of penologists and those involved in the punishment and the retrieving of those who are punished in criminal institutions - that people are not deterred by the punishments inflicted On others. 
 It is a question of which comes first - the horse or the cart. A person who becomes a nuclear physicist does so because of an early attachment to general principles. Then he becomes dedicated in that field. He possibly does not become a nuclear physicist because of his intense study initially in that rarefied field pf mathematics-physics. Therefore a person becomes a penologist because he has a certain disposition. He fortifies his knowledge and that disposition by further studies and by personal involvement. 

 Abolition Bill 639 
By definition, he would be against capital punishment. By disposition, by practice and by experience he would, otherwise he would destroy the subject which he wishes to retrieve. 
We are revolted by the occurrence of some crimes. There is one crime to which I would refer in this context. That is the crime of the commercial peddling of drugs. This is possibly the most horrifying of all crimes. Sometimes I think it is more revolting that the crime of deliberate murder. The destruction of the life of a body is tragic and one of the worst things that can happen, but to corrupt the mind, heart and soul, particularly of the young, is a totally unforgivable crime. If there were any crime in my concept that called for the extreme penalty, it would be that one. To peddle drugs for gain is worse still. It is incomprehensible that any human being could find himself in such a position that he would profit from the corruption of the very life of the person to whom he sells drugs. Therefore if I had a disposition to exact the most severe penalty, I might exact it in that field rather than in other fields. Sometimes it is a matter of philosophic speculation whether a life that is to be lived out in the corruption, in the terrors and in the horrors of drug addiction is not a greater deprivation to the person concerned than the life that is lost by means of a phony. Life in any form is most precious. But that is a matter for philosophic speculation. I merely express my own horror at the perpetration of this crime against individuals, against the community and particularly against the young. 
I was in London a few weeks ago. In Piccadilly Circus  1  saw a young boy of about  14  years who obviously was in the process of drug recovery. It is a sight I shall never forget, it was so horrifying. My thoughts went to those who were responsible for the addiction which obviously had gripped that young man. I thought: What should a community do to a person of such a character? If we allowed emotions to crowd our minds on this, unfortunately we would find ourselves in the position in which we would exact the most severe penalties and consider them to be justified. But so many other factors have to be  9 September 1971  taken into account that we must put aside our reactions in horror. We must put aside our emotive reactions. We must look at this from the point of view of the individual, the possibility of his recovery and the welfare of society, quite apart from the dread question of the moral entitlement of one to take the life of another. In my concept, a moral question does not arise here. 1 make one small final point. If the punishment is to fit the crime and if the punishment is to be an eye for an eye or a tooth for a tooth, I do not think that, except in rare cases, capital crimes - the taking of the life of another - can in any sense be nearly as horrifying as the taking of the life of the person who was killed. In whatever circumstances the original life was taken, and they may be bad, there is possibly nothing more horrifying than the long delay of the trial and the appeals and the reflection of the accused prior to his execution. That must add a psychological horror of the worst kind. It must add a new horror to the sheer one of the deprivation of life at the execution of the person involved. Therefore perhaps in no real sense can the punishment fit the crime. Perhaps the punishment must always be greater than the crime in a capital offence. That again is a matter of philosophic speculation. 
I do not speak on behalf of my Party in relation to this matter. The members pf the Democratic Labor Party have their own dispositions on this matter, and I am not aware of how they propose to vote. I have some idea, but I am not aware of that because the decision on a question such as this obviously is one which must attract the personal judgment and personal conscience of the individual concerned. But I think this Bill could well attract, in that individual, private and separate judgment, the support of honourable senators. As I have said, it poses a challenge to those who see an opportunity in the new science, the new world and the new life for the retrieving of those people who have been involved even in capital crimes - an opportunity that did not exist before. Should we at this stage deny them that opportunity? We would not do so if the same position arose, say, in relation to one of the dread diseases such as leukaemia. Even those who believe in euthanasia would not say that it was an appropriate time to pursue that policy if science was opening up vistas of recovery and the retrieving of the man who is mortally ill. I do not believe that we should be in  a  position other than that. For those reasons, speaking briefly, I support the Bill and commend its principles to honourable senators. 
 I second the amendment. The content of the amendment has been canvassed both by  Senator Gair,  the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, in presenting his speech on the Budget, and by  Senator Little  in speaking to the amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party and to this then foreshadowed amendment so it is not necessary for me, 1 take it, at this stage to examine in depth and present to the Senate the terms of this amendment. I merely make one comment. The Budget has assumed a rather extraordinary situation very recently after its introduction. Whatever was the pourpose of the Budget, there is now considerable doubt whether that purpose is being achieved and whether the Budget is not having a counter-effect to that which was contemplated originally. 
 That is an opinion expressed very widely. While it is not certain, there is now some concern whether the Budget is having the effect that was originally contemplated and predicated or whether, on the other hand, it is not having an unduly deflationary effect and precipitating some constriction in business and, consequentially, mounting unemployment. If, in fact, this is the economic effect which the Budget is having and will continue to have to an increasing degree, it is important that this Parliament be alerted to the fact that it may be necessary to have Government or parliamentary intervention to rectify a position that perhaps very quickly can deteriorate and create grave social and personal consequences for the nation. 
It will be noticed that placitum (J) of our amendment rather contemplates this situation because we refer to the antiinflationary effect of the Budget whilst maintaining full employment. That apparently is not what has transpired. While the Budget may be anti-inflationary, certainly at present it is not maintaining full employment, and that is a situation that might develop increasingly as month follows month. In those circumstances we commend to honourable senators the terms of this amendment. It contains propositions that we continuously present, such as the creation of an independent tribunal to determine pension rates instead of this harassing experience of pensions becoming the plaything of politics at Budget time. We contemplate a stronger defence programme. We are disappointed that the Budget does not provide for the necessary logistic support programme which we think a viable and adequate defence policy in Australia and for Australia must embrace. 
We are gravely concerned about the condition of the rural industries. I think the point should be made that we contemplate a short term and long term solution. The short term solution is the provision, through a finance corporation outside the banking system structured to the nature and relevant to the demands of the rural industries, of the necessary finance on appropriate terms with interest and redemption free periods. But we also see the necessity - it is becoming more apparent every day - of a fundamental examination of the whole rural economy. Today everyone is guessing and plucking at solutions. The unfortunate experience of the wool industry to which a succession of remedies has been applied, none of which has been successful and the most recent of which does not promise to be successful, indicates that obviously there is a problem which must be examined in depth if the proper solution is to be discovered. 
These propositions that we embrace in our amendment are not new propositions which have been presented merely for the purpose of this Budget. Some of them are particularly relevant and appropriate ad hoc to the situation, but many of them are merely a reiteration of propositions that we have been presenting for a long time and which we feel, had they been accepted and implemented, may well have taken us along the path of avoiding some of the tragic economic circumstances which we see operating and developing in the country today. For those reasons I warmly commend this amendment to honourable senators and trust that its propositions will receive that support which has been denied in the past but which circumsances today are demanding should receive increasing support as day follows day and tragic circumstance follows tragic circumstance. 
by leave - Ex post facto I therefore indicate that I am quite happy with that arrangement, that later today there will be an opportunity to present the matter relating to the presence of Ministers in another place before Estimates Committees. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I support the proposal for the limitation of the debating time of urgency motions to 2 hours and the consequential reduction of speaking time of the initial speakers and subsequent speakers to 20 minutes and 10 minutes respectively. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Prowse)There  is no substance in the point of order. 
I think that perhaps the consideration of amendment (3) and amendment (4) must to some extent go together. The point is that an urgency motion raises a matter of urgency and importance which has been considered subjectively by the person who raises it and those persons standing in their places. In a debate limited to a few hours, I think that 20 minutes is quite adequate for the presentation of a case. When we compute the present distribution of time, we see that the initial  speaker  and the Minister who replies each have 30 minutes. In a debate circumscribed within 3 hours, if subsequent speakers were allowed 15 minutes, the first 2 speakers plus 8 other speakers could be accommodated. This is a total of 10 speakers. With 20 minutes each for the first 2 speakers and 10 minutes for subsequent speakers, in a debate circumscribed within 2 hours, again 10 speakers could be accommodated, if my mathematics are correct. I think therefore it is important that as many people as can be reasonably accommodated within the ambit of the time available for an urgency motion should be accommodated. The time should not be monopolised by some people speaking for undue lengths of time to the exclusion of others. Therefore I think that this is quite a reasonable proposition. 
We have been getting a proliferation of urgency motions. That situation does not arise from any sinister motive. It will necessarily arise from the new distribution of political strength within the Senate. The members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party or the independent senators may choose to raise matters of urgency. After all, as I say, this is a subjective judgment. If  Senator Townley  or any other independent senator wishes to raise a matter of urgency and he can get sufficient senators to rise in their places he is entitled to move a motion. Therefore quite apart from a proposal which may come from the Government, from the Opposition or from us - more probably from the Opposition or from us - there are 3 independents all of whom might wish to inject an urgency motion. The chances that the number of urgency motions will increase is probably great. Urgency motions by their nature are important and urgent. Nevertheless, the business of Government must go on and other matters must come before the Senate for consideration. Urgency motions should not be allowed unduly to defeat the other work of the Senate, in considering legislation and in considering motions and papers and matters of that character. In the modern Senate, in the new Senate, I think this is quite an interesting and reasonable proposal. The Australian Democratic Labor Party support amendment (3). 
However, 1 point out a matter of drafting. The amendment reads: 
Leave out 'the mover and the Minister first speaking shall not exceed thirty minutes each', insert 'the mover and the senator next speaking . . .' ft is not inconceivable that for some reason the mover of the motion and the senator next speaking could come from the game group or the same side of the chamber. 
Where is it dealt with, senator? 
 Therefore I feel that perhaps some words should be inserted there to qualify the position. They could be in these terms: 
Insert 'the mover and the senator next speaking, not speaking m support of the motion, shall not exceed twenty minutes each'. 
In other words, that is maintaining the normal situation where more than 2 speakers are not called from the same side in succession. 
That is only in relation to the subsequent speakers; that is not the initial speakers. 
That is the mover and the senator next speaking, but I say that the mover and the senator next speaking might both speak from the same side in support of the motion. I do not think it is right that 2 succeeding speakers from the same side and presenting the same case should monopolise 40 minutes. 
 If it is a speaker in reply it is all right. The position may well be that it is 2 speakers who are not speaking in opposition but speaking in concurrence. That is my point. 
 We are abandoning that one, although I do not see why. We are now providing that the 2 initial speakers shall each have 20 minutes. It could be that the 2 initial speakers are both supporting the motion and speaking from the same point of view. I think that is unwise. 
Yes, but I say that, if we write this, what might happen is not in point. The point is: Are we wise to provide that 2 concurrent and succeeding speakers presenting the same position will get 40 minutes of the 2 hours? I think that if the second succeeding  speaker  is on the opposite side to the mover of the motion then the second  speaker  is entitled to 20 minutes, [f he is merely concurring with the motion I do not see why, because he is the second  speaker,  he should be entitled to the same period of time as the initial mover. I suggest that what should be inserted in amendment (3) is that the mover and the honourable senator next speaking, not speaking in support of the motion, shall not exceed 20 minutes each. That gives 20 minutes to the mover and 20 minutes to the first  speaker  opposing the motion. All other honourable members speaking have 10 minutes irrespective of whether they support or oppose the motion. I think that is quite a reasonable proposition. I propose to move: (n Amendment (3), after 'speaking', second appearing, insert 'not speaking in support of the motion'. 
I think that this is not an unreasonable proposition. I think it will allow the proliferation, although not undue proliferation, of urgency motions which are good. It will enable more honourable senators to participate in debate on an urgency motion. It will enable the normal business of the Senate to go on without undue interruption. This amendment will allow the modern distribution of political strength which we must now accept as a fact of parliamentary life to continue indefinitely in this comunity. This is a very wise, very timely and relevant provision. The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the amendment, subject to the amendment which I have moved. 
I draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that what is at issue is the maximum and best use of time allotted for debating urgency motions. Everyone knows that matters of urgency arise about which honourable senators feel very strongly. It is the subjective judgment of the person who moves an urgency motion whether he can attract the support of another 4 senators standing in their places. But there is a tremendous throughput of important work to be discharged by the Senate. I invite honourable senators to look at today's notice paper. It contains 8 notices of motion under 'Business of the Senate', none of which has been dealt with at all. There are references to a series of standing committees in the name of  Senator Davidson, Senator Sim, Senator Devitt,  myself,  Senator Murphy, Senator Mulvihill, Senator Murphy  and  Senator Murphy  again. Under 'Government Business, Orders of the Day' there are 15 matters, including some legislation - and there is much more to come - and very important matters such as the adjourned debates on the Australian Forces in Vietnam, a ministerial statement on international affairs by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  Fourth Report of the Standing Orders Committee which we are now debating, employment training scheme for persons displaced by technological change, and similar subjects. Under General Business' there is a whole mass of matters  -  11 in number - of very great consequence in the name of  Senator Willesee, Senator Murphy, Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson twice, myself,  Senator Devitt, Senator Murphy,  myself,  Senator Willesee  and myself twice. None of those has been dealt with totally. Under 'Orders of the Day' there are 25 matters still awaiting the attention of the Senate. Not all of them are pertinent or relevant now, but many are. That is the work programme of the Senate. 
If a matter of urgency attracts the particular attention of one senator and the support of only 4 more is required, should those 5 be able to impose their views, though they may be important, in the light of the tremendous work burden that these important matters on the notice paper impose on honourable senators? Many senators would regard some of these matters on the notice paper as vastly more important than the matter that  Senator Gair,  supported by the 4 additional members of the Democratic Labor Party, might raise. That is their right. It is not right that all the matters on the notice paper should be put aside merely to allow protracted debate on urgency matters which may have an urgency character to only a limited number of senators. In the economic use of time I think it is important to try to achieve a balance. I think that the limitation of 2 hours for debate, with no restriction on the number of participants in the debate - although the time allotted to individual participants is limited - can accomplish that economy of time which is so important in this chamber. 
I ask for leave to read question upon notice No. 1181. 
 I formally second the amendment, lt is not my intention to speak to it, although it is my entitlement at this stage to do so. I merely point out that the Democratic Labor Party has moved amendments in these terms on many other occasions. Usually it has been found necessary to embody it with other amendments or proposals relating to social welfare, some of which were not acceptable to members of the official Opposition. For that reason this proposition has fallen in defeat along with the others. Therefore we have isolated the proposition on this occasion so that it can be voted on on its individual merits in isolation. Thus, any alibis that might formally have been available when this proposition, although perhaps welcomed by the official Opposition, was defeated because it was allied with other suggestions are not available on this occasion. For those reasons we strongly commend the proposition and we strongly commend the principle which is embodied in it. 
It is clear that on this occasion the proposition can be voted on in isolation. We commend it as an advance in the approach to social welfare. As  Senator Little  said, it is an advance which will be welcomed by all sections of the community. It will overcome those frustrations which are always experienced by Government supporters at the time of the Budget. It will tend to alleviate some of the justifiable concern sometimes felt by pensioners that their welfare is a matter of political opportunism only. Undoubtedly it will allay the continuous disappointments that are so often ventilated by the official Opposition. For those reasons we strongly commend to the Senate this proposition in isolation and in specific terms, and we trust that it will be voted on affirmatively on this occasion. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Treasurer seen recent references to the growing element of control of Australian finance companies by foreign banks and corporations. 
Does the Treasurer consider that different guidelines should be laid down for finance corporations as to the amount of equity, capital which may be controlled outside Australia from the guidelines operating in relation to public companies generally; if so, will the Government investigate this matter, because finance companies, outside the banking system, have a tremendous impact on the ebb and flow of credit and therefore determine the economic climate of Australia. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government is aware of the growth of investments in Australian finance companies by overseas banks and other interests. 
Since the enactment of the Banking Act in 1945, successive Australian Governments have followed a policy of not authorising overseas interests to carry on banking business in Australia. However, this policy does not apply to finance companies and other companies which are not subject to the Banking Act or which are exempt from the provisions of that Act. Overseas investment in such companies is subject to the general policy on overseas investment outlined in the former Prime Minister's statement dated 1 6th September 1969. 
About 6 days ago I had the privilege of standing beside the saluting base at the Australian Task Force Headquarters at Nui Dat in South Vietnam while the Third Battalion of the Royal Australian Regiment paraded perhaps for the last time prior to the withdrawal of that unit as part of the Australian Task Force. On that occasion decorations for bravery and general conduct were presented to members of that battalion. I could not help thinking, as I saw with pride that proud battalion with its proud record parading, that well might have been in the minds of those who were parading this thought: 'We have come up here in terms of a contract to do a job in this part of the world. We have come up here to secure the integrity and independence of South Vietnam and to ensure that this country shall be allowed to pursue its own affairs and to pursue the establishment and operation of its own democratic institutions'. With pride that battalion, as part of the task force, could have said: 'We have ensured that that was done, we have ensured the security of this area which is now being entrusted to the South Vietnamese battalions themselves, and we are withdrawing'. 
Two days earlier in the same week it was on test whether or not the South Vietnamese Government for its part had discharged its end of the contract; in other words, whether that Government had seized the opportunity given to it by the lives, the blood and the treasure of the Australian and other allied troops to secure parliamentary institutions in that country. The test came, among other things, with the conduct of the presidential election which was held on the Sunday. I left Australia on last Friday week to attend as an observer at the presidential election. I was the only observer from the Australian Parliament. I was the only observer from an Parliament in Australia on that day. Perhaps .1 was the only observer from Australia at all, because I am not aware that any direct representative of the Australian Press was present. However, the Australian Press may have been operating through agencies. I am fairly certain that no direct representative of the Australian Press was there, and there was none from the Australian Parliament, although the Parliament of Great Britain was represented by a Labor peer and two Conservative members of the House of Commons. The Japanese Parliament was represented. I think the 
Parliament of the Philippines was represented. I had the great privilege and distinction of representing the whole of this Parliament and perhaps the whole of Australia. 
No, not officially. The international Press was represented there. Journalists from all over the world were sent by their newspapers. No doubt they went at great expense, but this event was regarded as of such significance that it required the attendance of direct representatives of the international Press agencies. To my knowledge no representative of the Australian Press in the same category was there at all. However, I had the opportunity - the only opportunity of anyone from this Parliament and perhaps from Australia - of observing just how the election was conducted and to what extend it did comply with democratic forms. I think it is my duty tonight in this very short time available to me as far as I can to report faithfully, accurately, and, J trust, objectively what were the results of my observations and to what extent I thought the election complied with the ordinary democratic forms of the electoral process. 
Having reported in Saigon, I found that the information centre of the electoral machinery had provided a great number of tours to various parts of South Vietnam. These tours could be inspection observing tours which could be taken by various correspondents, by official observers and by more distinguished people. I did not opt for such a trip because I thought that in the economy of time of an election that commenced at 7 o'clock in the morning and concluded at 5 o'clock in the evening it was only fair that I should attempt to observe the election in the capital city, Saigon, as well as, and as far as possible, the operation of the election in one of the provincial areas. To have gone to Da Nang or Hue may have deprived me of any opportunity of observing the election in Saigon. 
Therefore in the morning I went along to the main polling booth in Saigon and observed the opening of the ballot. Then 1 was moved by helicopter with some international journalists to the province of Binh Duong which is about 15 helicopter minutes from Saigon. At this point we made observations of the polling in a number of villages in that province. In the afternoon I returned to Saigon and made a further personal, on-the-spot inspection of a number of polling places in Saigon. I again inspected the closure of the ballot and the counting of the ballot in the Saigon town hall at 5 o'clock. 
No, I did not have my own interpreter. I will tell you the situation,  Senator Mulvihill.  The elections were conducted under the presidential law. The important thing was, first of all, that the elections should be held in pursuance of that law. I have a copy of the presidential election law here, which perhaps 1 might be wise to table at the end of my speech. Under the presidential election law the whole of the procedures which are to be followed in the election of a  president  are laid down. They are most comprehensive in that they specify the date of the election, the nature of the polling, the selection of candidates, the operations of parties, moneys provided, even by the Government, to parties to conduct their campaigns, and things of that nature. The election had to be operated under that law. On my objective assessment  -  I am myself a lawyer  -  I found that the election was conducted explicitly in terms of their own law. There appeared to me to be no departure from the statutory principles which were required to be observed. 
 Senator Georges,  you may have a copy of this later on. More particularly, if I table it, you may have access to this document to see whether you think it does in all ways comply with the ordinary principles that you would expect a free election to comply with. The second question was that if the election complied with the presidential election law, was that election law a law in terms of the ordinarily accepted canons of democratic free elections? That necessarily would be the next point. What would be the principles which one would apply to determine whether an election was conducted according to the canons which we would want to apply to determine whether an election was free and democratic? The first principle would be that the voters would have the opportunity of voting without pressure of any kind being applied to them, whether it be physical, psychological, economical or political. 
 I will come to that. I hope in the short time available to me to deal with that. The first principle would be whether or not people were coming to the ballot boxes under pressure. I was there at the opening of the main booth in Saigon and I was in the provinces. I saw no evidence whatsoever of any pressure being applied to any voters to come to vote. Whether pressures were applied to voters a long way down the line one could never calculate. There was no evidence of pressures applied to voters at all. In Saigon in the morning the voters were present in great numbers, as you would find them in an Australian election. There were early comers ready to vote and there was a constant throughput of voters during the day until the ballot closed at  5  o'clock. 
The second canon which would have to be applied is the availability of the processes of voting, in other words that polling booths and ballot boxes should be available. That would be the second principle. I have documents here which set out the facts. Throughout South Vietnam there were over 8,000 polling places. I think in anyone's calculation that would indicate a very wide availability of the processes of the ballot box within easy reach of a nation, much of the population of which is not on wheels, much of which may have to walk. Nevertheless 8,180  -  I think that is the figure - polling places were available. 
The third principle would be whether the ballot was secret. The method of voting in South Vietnam is different from ours. The community there is largely not literate. 1 think the literacy or illiteracy rate is 40 per cent or very close to that figure. Therefore to mark a ballot paper is not within the ability or competence of many voters. Therefore they have - and it is prescribed in the presidential election law - a slate. If, for example, there were 3 parties such as the Libera] Party, the Australian Labor Party and the Australian 
Democratic Labor Party each putting up a party ticket, the ballot paper would have the party ticket on it. The paper I hold up - say, for argument's sake, it is for party A - is called a slate. The slate carries on it photographs of the candidates and the party symbol for the benefit of those who are not equipped to read or write. By viewing it they recognise it as the slate or the ballot which they want. 
1 was told that at the election which was held a week or a fortnight before that at one place there were 81 candidates for  5  electoral positions. Therefore there were 81 ballot papers or slates of that type. Every elector who came in would be issued with one of those slates. In the case of the 81 candidates there would be 81 slates. The elector would discard the 76 he did not want. This is the method of voting. Every person in Vietnam carries an identity card. When he becomes 18 years of age he registers as a voter and is issued with a voting registration slip. It has attached to part of it coupons A, B, C, D and E. When a person comes to vote he presents his identity card so that he can be recognised. He presents his voting registration slip so that he can be identified as a person duly registered and as the person whom he appears to be on his identification card. He then proceeds to the next table. We saw this in all the places. In this case, the presidential election, he was presented with one slip because there was only one group. In the previous case I mentioned there would be 81 slates. He is also issued with a brown manilla envelope. From there he goes into the voting cubicle. 
I will tell the honourable senator the whole process. The voting cubicles were small cubicles enclosed with a black curtain which is impenetrable. The voter went into the voting cubicle taking with him his brown manilla envelope and the voting paper. It was impossible to see what went on in the voting cubicle. The voter may elect to put his ballot paper in the manilla envelope or he may elect not to do that. He could do a number of things. He could put that ballot paper into the manilla envelope; he could mutilate the ballot paper or he could discard it within the secrecy of the voting cubicle. I and the journalists with me from the international Press inspected these cubicles. We went into a number of them in the country area and in Saigon. 
Receptacles were provided for discarded ballot papers. When I inspected some of the receptacles in the province at about 11 in the morning there were already a great number of discarded ballot papers. Those who were not prepared to vote for President Thieu and his vice-presidential colleague and who did not use their ballot paper put the paper in the receptacle. Others mutilated the ballot paper and returned it to the envelope. The voter then came back from the voting cubicle to the place where there was one ballot box. He deposited his brown manilla envelope, holding it up first so that it could be seen that he was not duplicating it. He then put it in the ballot box. At that stage he was under no scrutiny or surveillance at all. That was apparent to anybody in the polling place. This process complied with the third requirement which was that the voter must have the opportunity of voting no or dissenting. Voters could dissent either by remaining away from the ballot box altogether, or by not using their ballot paper or by mutilating their ballot paper and returning it in a mutilated condition in the envelope to the ballot box. But every envelope had to be returned to the ballot box. 
After the voter had done that he passed along the table where the appropriate coupon for the vote was cut off his voting registration slip. For example, it could be the B coupon because the A coupon had been used for the previous election. There were no marks on that coupon to identify it with the voter. The coupon was then threaded on to a wire. At the end of the day a balance was taken between the envelopes in the box and the voting coupons to see whether the proper result had been obtained and that the number of envelopes corresponded with the number of votes who had been registered. That is the second aspect of the matter. That night - I shall deal with this matter more particularly - when an inspection was made of the ballot papers taken from the envelope, as far as I could see the whole balance of doubt was given against the ticket and not in favour of the ticket. If there were the slightest mutilation on the ballot paper, even if the corner at the bottom were torn - in our concept that would not have affected the validity of the voting at all - it was immediately put back into the envelope and the envelope was endorsed by the person we would call the presiding officer. The envelope was then put away. In other words votes which had the slightest suggestion of doubt were declared invalid and not formal. It appeared to me and to all of us that the whole count told against the presidential ticket and not in favour of it. 
The other canon is the integrity of the count. The count and the conduct of the election appeared to be in the hands of schoolteachers just as we have schoolteachers as our presiding officers. I asked about this matter. As I say, the whole of the population is not equipped for this task. The presiding officers and poll clerks were mostly school teachers and other young men and women who were, no doubt, clerks. They presided as polling officers. At night the scrutineers, in terms of the presidential law, were invited from among people around, and the ballot was counted. The envelopes were counted in the public view and were tallied just as we might tally an election if we went in and acted as scrutineers as we have done so often at elections. I would say that, from what I saw, this ballot completely complied with the conditions and canons which we would require in any electoral system. I could not fault it at all. 
The eligibility of candidates- 
As I say there were 2 matters. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
NATIONAL HEALTH BILL  1971  (No.  2l 
Bill received from the House of Representatives. 
Standing Orders suspended. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) read a first time. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party opposes the proposal submitted by the Opposition in relation to this clause. As far as I can see, the principle enunciated by  Senator Douglas  McClelland does not relate to the contents of the clause. Apparently the clause is not an attempt to do by regulation what otherwise would be done by statute. The clause deals with an altogether different principle. Actually it seeks to operate a regulation as from a date before the regulations generally are proclaimed but after the commencement of the Act. I do not think that the principle enunciated by the honourable senator - one in which the Opposition is always very interested - is violated on this occasion. For those reasons we have a different attitude to the operation of ministerial discretion and of regulations. Our attitude has been stated from time to time in this place, and it is not necessary for me to state it again. The DLP opposes the proposal put by the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That clause 10 stand as printed. (The  Chairman  -  Senator Prowse) 
Ayes . .  . .  . . 27 
Noes .. .. ..22 
Majority . .  . . 5 
Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I join with  Senator Wheeldon  in welcoming this report. It is of immense significance and tremendous modern relevance. Over the past 3 years such matters as the exercise of ministerial discretion, subordinate legislation and the interpretation and application of regulations have been of particular concern to this Senate. Such matters have provided topics of controversy between one side of the House and the other. As  Senator Wheeldon  said, in some countries bodies of administrative law - that is a vertical structure of law- lie parallel to the ordinary systems of civilian and criminal law. It is a structure which we do not have in Australia. lt may be something which would be more appropiate than the discharge of administrative functions under the general rule of law.  Senator Wright  may controvert me on this matter. 
 I am not going to make a speech. I have just said that  Senator Wright  may controvert me. However, I regard this report as a most important document. I welcome it. 1 commend it to honourable senators for close study before it comes before this chamber again for debate. It may be something which affects the whole judicial procedure in Australia and the application of this growing body of administrative law. 
Debate (on motion  Senator Wheeldon)  adjourned. 
by leave -  Mr President,  as I intimated to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and yourself, I wish to make a short statement in relation to the Parliamentary Handbook on Commonwealth Financial Affairs. A few weeks ago, this document prepared by the Treasury was circulated in this place. I was gratified personally by the production of this document because I think that it stems from a suggestion made by me. The idea behind the concept of the document was that members of Parliament and the general public should be acquainted with the public account and the increasing complexities and intricacies of the public account. 
This document has been prepared in a form in which a very technical exercise, a most complex proposition, has been laid out interms that may well be followed and comprehended by people who normally are not skilled in those fields. I can imagine 'that a document such as this would be in considerable demand outside this Parliament. It should be in very considerable demand within the Parliament itself. As the Commonwealth assumes new responsibilities and as the public account becomes of greater significance and of greater complexity, it is important that members particularly should know how to thread their way through the public account. With the development of the committee system in the Senate and more particularly the Estimates Committees it is of vital importance that honourable senators should have an easy familiarity with the complexities of the public account so that more appropriately, more intelligently and more effectively, in the discussions of Estimates Committees they can interrogate the officers and the Ministers who come before them. 
I have a suggestion to make to your good self,  Mr President.  This document sets out the nature and the details of the public account in its various phases. After all, whether it takes the form of the Budget, an appropriation Bill or any other financial document, such a document finds its passage ultimately through the Parliament. In order to conclude this document and, I think, to make it a definitive document of the whole subject, it appears to me that 2 additional chapters might well be written. They would relate to the mode of presentation and passage of financial documents - that is, bills relating to finance, particularly appropriation Bills or supply Bills - through the House of Representatives and through this chamber. 
I commend to you this suggestion: I ask that you consult with your colleague, the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives,  Sir William  Aston, and ask him whether he for his part would have prepared a chapter relating to the presentation and passage of finance Bills through that place and that you might consult with the appropriate officers in this place for the preparation of a similar chapter on the handling, presentation and passage of finance Bills through the Senate. With the 2 chapters having been added, the whole document might then be printed as a complete document able to be circulated and which can go then to universities and be available, of course, to members in this place. I commend those suggestions to you. I personally shall be gratified if you will find that they can be adopted as I am sure a complete document of this type would be of great value. 
The matter of urgency which has been raised on behalf of the Australian Labor Party expresses a concern which is shared by the Democratic Labor Party and obviously, in view of the statement by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  by the Government. The difference between the Opposition and the Government and the Democratic Labor Party in this regard is in the measure of that concern. The measure of the concern expressed in the statement of urgency is reflected in the fact that the matter is introduced as a matter of urgency which requires the immediate attention of the Government. The terms of the statement of urgency refer to the neglect of the Government. In the light of the Minister's statement, and more particularly in the light of his advertence to what the Government has done, the complexity of the legislation and, more especially, the fact that the proposed insurance legislation will perhaps cover fields wider than those embraced in the terms of the matter of urgency, it would appear, in fairness, that the term 'neglect' may be used inappropriately.  1  can say to the Senate that I have men tioned this matter to  Senator Murphy  and suggested that the word 'neglect' be deleted and that the word 'delay' be inserted in lieu thereof. I know that the Minister and the Government would not be prepared to concede that that would be an appropriate term, but I think it would be more appropriate than 'neglect'. I believe that the Government is alert to the situation: but in our opinion it has not been sufficiently alert, nor was it alert sufficiently early. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - You are seeking leave to alter- 
The Government's delay in introducing legislation to regulate and supervise accident insurance. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
I feel that the words inserted in lieu of the deleted words more accurately reflect the actual position, lt will more certainly reflect the disposition  of  the Democratic Labor Party to the terms of the motion. Here we are dealing with a matter which must be of national concern. The more recent history of insurance failures shows that in some fields there will be a severe effect on those unfortunate people who place their trust and confidence in their insurance policy of some kind or another only to find that they are not ultimately protected at all. This situation has become particularly evident in the field of motor vehicle insurance. We are dealing with a group of people who are vulnerable to commercial malpractice. In this era of rising levels of insurance premiums and the extension of the motor car ownership market, in the less affluent sections of the community - particularly the younger section - great disability is experienced by those who, with some difficulty, purchase a car and then are required to insure it at this increasing level of premium cost. Those are the people who are most likely to be attracted by an insurance company which offers adequate protection and holds out the offer of adequate security for that protection at a lower premium rate than applies generally throughout the insurance community. 
These people cannot be blamed for putting their trust in an insurance company which has to register and lodge a deposit, therefore appearing to have all the imprimatur of respectability. People cannot be blamed because they want to insure at a lower level within their competence. This may be the only thing available to them because they have stretched their limited financial resources to the utmost to purchase a vehicle. They cannot alford the normal high premium levels which are charged by what I shall call the 'orthodox' insurance companies. Therefore these people must be protected against themselves. As I say, it is a measure of our concern that this matter should now emerge as one of urgency. In the community there must be hundreds, perhaps thousands of these people - particularly younger people - who are not adequately insured because of these circumstances. If they do not take this kind of insurance, they do not take motor vehicle insurance at all. Of course in the event of an accident the unfortunate person who collides with such a person as I have mentioned may be unable to recover from an insurance company which may have collapsed. 
In other words, there is not only the misfortune of a person who has insured with one of these unsatisfactory companies but there is the grave injustice done to other motor vehicle owners and users who may become common victims of this type of commercial malpractice. In these circumstances it is important that legislative movement take place early to see whether the position can be rectified. 
I know and I appreciate the submissions of the Attorney-General. The legislation is complex, particularly when it requires consultation with the States which, with the exception of Queensland, have not moved in this field. But wc do not think that in view of the increasing demand for some sort of protection and security the Government can altogether be excused for the legislative sloth which has accompanied the consideration of the remedial measures to be applied to this type of practice. The implications of a lack of insurance cover are very serious to the individual and quite serious to the community. Unfortunately in this place we have seen delay at the hands of the Government where legislation or complementary legislation was necessary in conjunction with the States in another field. I shall mention this matter on another occasion. Now in recent times an important report was presented, as you would know  Mr Acting Deputy President,  from the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. That report called for joint Commonwealth and State action. It recognised that there was an urgent need for the Commonwealth to act because the States were legislating in the field and the opportunity for integrated and coordinated legislation would be lost if the Commonwealth did not move in synchronisation with the States. Only today - I shall discuss this matter on some other occasion at greater length - I received an up to date summary of the legislation and administrative acts which have been taken by the States in the field of environmental control. The States are active. They are dynamic. They have much legislation. They have committees of inquiry. As far as I am aware the Commonwealth has as yet made very little movement in this field. 
In any of these fields where effective results can only be produced by joint Commonwealth and State action the Commonwealth must be particularly alert. It should move promptly, effectively and in closer co-operation with the States. It is for that reason that we are concerned at the evident and undue delay and the lack of early alertness by the Commonwealth Government in the field of insurance. Perhaps the action which is now being taken in the Senate to acquaint the Government of the concern felt by those in this chamber at this delay might well prompt an even accelerated solution to the problem which, apparently, is now under close consideration. As I said, the legislation which is proposed goes quite beyond the terms of the motion. For that reason the legislation will be complex, compendive and difficult. It will impose quite a considerable burden on the staff of the Parliamentary Counsel. In those circumstances 1 suppose we cannot ask the impossible of the responsible Minister, the Treasury or the Attorney-General - as the case may be. On this occasion all we want to do is to see that the Senate is concerned and alert that so many people are suffering and likely to suffer. 
With the Attorney-General I realise that this legislation will not retrospectively cure the ills or salve the wounds of those who have suffered because of the collapse of insurance companies. There may be many now who are living, as it were, in a shadow land in which they do not take insurance or they are living in a worse shadow land in which they are taking insurance which might ultimately prove of little or no effect at all. We must move quickly to cover both situations. 1 feel that a resolution from the Senate in the new terms, not exposing the Government for any gross neglect which I do not think is evident, but impressing upon the Government our concern that there should be greater speed and that these people should be protected as quickly and as closely as possible at a fair insurance rate commends itself to honourable senators. I commend the amended statement of the matter of urgency to the Senate. 
It is not my intention to provoke a debate on this subject. Perhaps I could indicate the nature of the matter to which I want to refer. You,  Mr President,  have indicated that you are concerned that the Committee of Privileges should bring in its report, and you have certain views on the matters that might be discussed by the Committee. I merely draw attention to a notice of motion No.  11  standing in my name in relation to a matter I raised in the Senate regarding the privilege of the Press and the conduct of the Senate. On that occasion I discussed the matter within a very narrow technical compass and subsequently put down this notice of motion for this matter to stand referred to the Committee of Privileges. 
I merely wanted to ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir 
Kenneth Anderson) to indicate, that this matter might be referred to the Committee so that it will have before it everything which at the moment is of concern to the Senate. This may be one item that is of concern to the Senate, it is of concern to me. I merely would like an indication from the Leader of the Government. That is the nature of my statement which I sought leave to make. It does not go &lt;o the merits of anything at all but relates to this purely technical matter which 1 chink should be taken aboard by the Committee of Privileges to allow discussion of the whole question of privilege. 
Thank you,  Mr President. 
As one who came into this place following the retirement of the late  Mr Heatley  after the Senate election in 1967 and as one who knew him, his wife and his family personally, I pay my small tribute of regard and express my sorrow at his unfortunate and premature passing.  Mr Heatley  was, as has been said, a man of quiet disposition and gentle character.  His  private secretary, Miss Hanman, is now my private secretary. Therefore I am able to assess, in a sense, the type of work which interested him most and with which he identified himself most closely. He was interested in people. He was concerned about and solicitous for individual welfare. Many people who were  Mr Heatley's  concern, whose cases he fostered over the years and for whom he attempted to obtain some amelioration of apparently harsh administrative decisions still come to me today. Those who wrote in still write with affection and regard for the late  Mr Heatley.  I convey to the family of the late  Mr Heatley  - his sons and daughter and his widow - my personal sorrow. I trust, as  Senator Gair  said, that they will be comforted in the sadness which has come upon them. 
I join with other senators in expressing, my sorrow at the passing of  Senator Mulvihill^  mother. One's mother is a most precious and only once given gift. I am sure that particularly those of us who have been through the same sorrow will feel for  Senator Mulvihill  in his tremendous deprivation. 
I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 10.29 a.m.  ] do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely: 
The implications for Australian defence and security of Britain's decision to enter the European Economic Community and the decision of the United Nations to seat the People's Republic of China in the General Assembly of the United Nations and on the Security Council in place of the Republic of China and to expel the Republic of China from the world body. 
I am indebted to Senators Sim and Lillico, who are Government supporters, and  Senator Townley,  who is an independent, for rising to support my request for a debate on this matter. Candidly, I express my very deep disappointment that my request received no support from the Australian Labor Party. The statement of the matter of urgency which I have proposed for debate takes up no definite position. The purpose of my motion is to place before the Senate an opportunity for it to express through its members, its view on 2 of the most vital decisions that have been made perhaps in this century and, in the case of Australia, perhaps for a number of centuries. I should have expected that members of the official Opposition would welcome the opportunity, so early after these events have taken place, to express their views on these 2 important decisions. 
I do not know whether the Opposition did or did not want it, but Opposition senators certainly did not assist in providing an opportunity for a debate by rising in their places; at least, I saw no honourable senator from the official Opposition rise in his place, which would have been the most apparent way of manifesting a desire that this matter be debated. 
The 2 decisions to which I refer are, firstly, the decision of the British Parliament, through the House of Lords and the House of Commons, by an overwhelming majority to enter the European Economic Community and, secondly, the decision of the United Nations General Assembly to admit the People's Republic of China as a member nation of the United Nations, to seat it on the Security Council and to expel the Republic of China - that is, Taiwanese China - from the world body. These 2 events happened 6,000 miles apart and it might appear that there is no inter-relation between the two; but honourable senators will notice that I have embodied in the resolution a common consequence, that is, the effect on Australian defence and security of these 2 major and historic decisions taken so very far apart in geographic terms. Twelve thousand miles may separate London from Peking, fewer miles may separate London from New York and more or fewer miles may separate those cities from Australia, but those decisions are of historic consequence, particularly to the Australian nation. 
The European Economic Community must be regarded not as a purely trade and customs union. It goes far beyond that in its contemplation, in the intention of its members and in the provisions of the Treaty of Rome which is the governing instrument which constituted the Common Market and which will direct and guide its future and its destiny. Earlier this year, together with other honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives, I had the opportunity to visit the Common Market countries and to have discussions about the Common Market. Under interrrogation it emerged .that what is contemplated is not merely a customs union of those countries. Because there necessarily will be a uniform system of commerce and perhaps of general common law; because there will be a uniform currency situation; because there will be a common trade policy and because there obviously will be ultimately a common defence policy and a common policy on foreign affairs, ultimately there will be a complete politic.il identity. It will move as an individual political unit some kind of super-state on the world stage. We must recognise that once Britain embeds itself in that Community it must necessarily pursue political objectives quite diverse from ours and if the occasion should arise it must take attitudes different from ours, have alliances perhaps different from ours and put emphases on policy different from ours. That is the great decision which Britain made. We must accept that decision and we must accommodate ourselves to all its consequences. 
The second important event was the decision of the General Assembly of the United Nations to seat the People's Republic of China in the General Assembly. In speaking to the motion I do not propose to canvass the merits or demerits of that decision, but I am drawing implications from it. One implication is the immediate United States response. That response has been the continuance of the process of withdrawal from involvement in overseas affairs and, more particularly, a disengagement from the mainland of Asia. That process was operating before the vote was taken. The process is being stimulated by internal American thought and it is being underlined by internal American problems. It is now in the forefront in the thought processes in the United States. The vote having been taken, the immediate United States response was reflected in the decision of the United States Senate which passed, by an overwhelming majority, a resolution that there should be no more foreign aid provided by the United States. In other words, there was to be an immediate acceleration of the process of retraction and of withdrawal by the United States from involvement in the affairs of other nations. Only this morning on the radio I heard an interview with  Senator McGovern,  who is a possible Democratic Party nominee for the United States presidential election next year, in which he advocated that the United States withdraw from the ANZUS Pact. That very dramatic statement highlights the fact that, quite apart from the control of America in Republican hands, in the hands of  Senator McGovern  as  President,  backed by his Party, there would be an American retraction to the extent that he would contemplate the dissociation of the United States even from an existing treaty such as ANZUS. In the course of this Press interview he said that he thought SEATO was a dead letter. 
These processes on the part of Britain and of the United States are highlighting one emerging fact in the disposition of world power, particularly as it affects Australia. That disposition is that as Britain withdraws west of Suez and withdraws more and more into an introverted Europe and as the United States, for reasons good and sufficient to itself, withdraws into a quasi-Monroe doctrine, Australia will be faced with a new, emerging and dangerous isolationism. In this part of the world we will be somewhat of an alien because our friends, for national reasons, have withdrawn from this area. Therefore Australia must now accept the fact and face the situation that this is the world in which it has to move, realise the nations with whom it has to accommodate itself and work out how it is going to do that. That is why the Democratic Labor Party has moved this motion as one of extraordinary urgency, because it is important in this time of national crisis for Australia - I make no apologies for using the word 'crisis' -that the voice of members of Parliament and of the Parliament should be heard expressing our concern or that those who may feel no concern should express no concern at the position which is developing. The voice of the Parliament should be heard. That is the underlying note of urgency which I trust, if not explicit, is implicit in the terms of the motion propounded. At this stage we must look at Australia's new and emerging position and see exactly the consequences for this nation in the light of the new disposition of power because the great nations to which I have referred have withdrawn from this part of the world - the friendly nations with whom we have had alliances in war and peace and with whom we have had blood alliances for hundreds of years, since the existence of the Australian nation. 
The developing isolation of Australia must cause grave national concern. At the moment the isolation may not be apparent to Australians. It will become more and more evident as year follows year. It will be altogether too late to recognise that fact later if we refuse to face the fact now that the situation is developing and that we should move to accommodate ourselves to it and to prepare for it in the best way in which nationally we can do it - by the mobilisation of our resources to the fullest extent, by the mobilisation of the faculties that we have and of the physical resources at our command and to equip them and to dispose them to the best national advantage. This is not an easy proposition. It is not an easy proposition for a nation which has always found firm friends close at hand. We still have those friends, but today they find themselves in a different position and necessarily we must find ourselves consequentially in a different position also. 
What is the situation that is facing Australia at this time? With the retraction of the interest and the identification of our friends we are left alone in this part of the world - in South Eastern Asia and in this part of the Pacific. I think it is undeniable that nations to the north of Australia are targets for subversive attack coming from the north. That subversive attack threatens the independence of those nations and, insofar as it threatens their independence, it poses a threat to the security of Australia. About the middle of last year, as a member of a parliamentary mission, T had the privilege of meeting the leaders of Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore. I cannot attribute to a particular leader what I am about to say., but there was a consensus that those countries were extraordinarily vulnerable to subversion from the north, for different reasons. Indonesia is very concerned because it was the target for a Communist conspiratorial assault in 196S which only by sheer chance and historical accident was not successful. Malaysia has a particular communal problem in that there is an imbalance between the Malays who have a political superiority and the Chinese who have a commercial superiority. There is an instability in that country which presents a tremendous vulnerability in that area. Malaysia finds itself in the position that already on its northern border with Thailand there is Communist insurgency led by Chin Peng. Singapore knows that if the Communists should break through from the Indo-China peninsula into Malaysia they will break through into Singapore. 
Those nations are extraordinarily conscious of the whole situation. They realise that their vulnerability could well be the vulnerability and the instability of the whole area. That is a position which Australia must be prepared to accept. They pleaded along these lines. The Indonesians said: 'Give us the opportunity to build up our own natural defences. Give us the time to build our own economic strength and to stabilise our political and social system, and we can preserve our own integrity.* 
The Malaysians said: 'Give us the time to overcome this communal problem and we also can build up our social and economic stability'. 
Time and again I put the matter of the presence of Australian troops on that area to those to whom I spoke. They say that the mere presence of Australian forces in that area is an assistance and an identification of Australia with those countries and with their stability, integrity, security and future. We are buying time for them. It is not only a question of Australian forward defence; it is also a question of our involvement in the security, independence and integrity of those nations. They welcome that. They were not only disconcerted but also dismayed at the former British Government's decision to withdraw its forces from east of Suez. They welcomed the change of government in Britain that resulted in a change of policy and the restationing of even token forces in that area. There is a subversive threat from the north of which these nations are conscious and of which they are extraordinarily afraid. In fact, to some extent they are terrified. 
I know that when our defence programme is placed before the Parliament, or more particularly when it is mentioned in the Press, we are inclined to hear that type of sarcasm or ridicule which states: Who is going to invade Australia? Will millions of Chinese come down in sampans to occupy this country?' That type of thinking shows a total unawareness of the real threat and the real problem posed to Australia. Let me remind honourable senators that the closest the world came to major war since the Second World War - we were on the very threshold of it - was during the confrontation between the United States of America and the Soviet Union over Cuba. There was no suggestion of the physical invasion of the United States. All that was required was that within a measurable target distance of the mainland of the United States there should be an accommodating power that could provide a launching base for missiles. When that position had been established,  President  Kennedy found it necessary to deploy the American fleet and to bring his nation and the world to the brink of a major war because that position in itself was a lethal threat to the security and continuance of the United States. There was no suggestion of armed invasion. That was all that was necessary. 
The same position could well develop in South East Asia if China, for example, having a minority ethnic group available to it in some of the countries to our north, as a protecting power tried to subvert any one of these countries by the stimulation of the minority movements in any of them and that country became an accommodating power to China, or to any other nation not friendly to Australia. An antiAustralian enclave could immediately develop within the geographical area. No armed invasion is necessary. There is merely Cuban-type enclave which poses this lethal threat to the security and independence of Australia. I think that is the really great threat. That is the greatest threat that may manifest itself in our part of the world. 
Let us remember that Indonesia, which was so close to a Communist takeover in 1965, which still has the major problem of not knowing how deeply or how widely the Communist conspiracy penetrated and which is still trying to discover how far the tentacles went, is the only nation in the world with which we have a land frontier. If Indonesia is vulnerable to any sort of takeover, this immediately poses a threat to Australia. Perhaps the relevance of this is that there may be some stimulation of this type of activity not merely with the takeover by a power hostile to Australia but also with the admission of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations which gives that nation an aura of international respectability to which smaller nations may, and probably will, respond. They will give to Mainland China an accommodation which might provide all these opportunities which otherwise could be provided only by armed control or by national hegemony over the smaller power. That is one of the dangers that I see implicit in the international recognition of the People's Republic of China as we saw it in the United Nations the other day. 
In South East Asia, Australia has been identified with the policy that if we can support the economies and maintain and improve the social stability of the areas to which I have referred and of those countries further north, such as Thailand, Cambodia and South Vietnam, that in itself will call a halt to the processes of infiltration and subversion and, in more general terms, will provide containment - not aggressive containment but defensive containment - of those who otherwise would burst through and rob nations of their liberty. The Australian Democratic Labor Party has been gravely concerned that within the last 24 hours the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has made a statement which, to members of this Party, is of major proportions. If the right honourable gentleman is correctly reported and if his words have the meaning and carry the implications which I think, on the face of them, must be given to them - I say this with all the authority of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and speaking seriously- 
We may be a minority party. We may be a smaller party in the community. But we are a party which exerts a major influence on Australia's political thought and which helps in this place to curb the irresponsibility of the official Opposition. I regret that under provocation from  Senator Georges  I had to say that. The Prime Minister stated that Australia had moved away from the theories of containment of China and active hostility towards Communism. I do not know what those words may mean precisely. But the meaning is fairly selfevident. That the words are attributable to the Prime Minister is undeniable. I have little reason to doubt that they were actually uttered, although they are put in the third person. I say with the full authority of the Australian Democratic Labor Party: We find this political attitude completely indefensible, we find it completely dangerous, and we find it totally inexcusable. Our Party would not be prepared in any sense to find it acceptable at all. It is totally and fundamentally unacceptable to the Democratic Labor Party. I say that with the authority of the Party. I think it is an attitude that might well be taken into account by the Government and by the right honourable gentleman. 
After all, my Party has always presented a policy of strength in defence. It is not an outrageous policy but a defensible policy in terms of money, logistics and national capacity. We think that this statement constitutes the abandonment of many of those principles for which this Party has stood and for which this nation has stood. If that proposition were allowed to stand, it would make a mockery of our intervention in Vietnam and of all the lives lost there in defending the containment of the Communists' sudden thrust and aggression; it would make a mockery of the continued presence of any of our troops at all in that area; and it would make a mockery of our military presence in South East Asia. I hope that that proposition will be spelt out by the right honourable gentleman in different terms because, as I say, it is unacceptable to the Democratic Labor Party. 
It has been suggested that the People's Republic of China can pose no military threat in this area because, although that nation now possesses nuclear capacity, it has no strike force which could provide a delivery stystem 
I will deal with that if necessary,  Senator Brown.  Our policies are always clear and explicit. We know what they are and we never lack the courage to state them. One thing we know: When we state a policy today through our Leader it will not be abandoned tomorrow by other members of the Party and he himself will not have to abandon it under pressure. It was said of Mainland China that she had no strike capacity, but in the last fortnight it has been publicly announced that China has a strike capacity of up to 1,000 miles. She has a nuclear capacity. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  -  Senator Georges,  you are interjecting far too much. 
Mainland China therefore now has the capacity to deliver nuclear warheads to countries within a range of 1,000 miles of her launching bases. If the positon should arise, as I am suggesting it might, that she finds an accommodating nation to the north of Australia, she will have a strike capacity within 1,000 miles of Australia. There are those who say that in no circumstances should Australia be armed with nuclear power. The view of the Democratic Labor Party is that we should have in Australia a nuclear capacity which can be a deterrent to those countries which would attempt by this or any other means to impose their will upon this nation, I think it is a national disgrace that in the light of and in the presence of nations that have developed nuclear capacity and have now developed a strike ability to present those war heads in Australia any Australian should advocate that we should be prepared to denude ourselves, at least of the opportunity and the means of deterrents or retaliation. 
It is incredible to me that that type of thinking can characterise some great sections of the Australian people represented - and I think I say it fairly - in the political judgment of the Australian Labor Party. We can see no warrant or justification for it We think it is dangerous. We think it is a policy fraught with disaster for Australia. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder!  Senator Georges,  you will desist from interjecting. 
We would arm nobody to the teeth but we do not want to live in a fool's paradise. I remind honourable senators of the action of the United States Government when it found that nuclear weapons were in Cuba, so close to its shores. It is a matter of national suicide if we do not at least develop a nuclear capacity so that in an emergency we can provide our own deterrents. Another threat developing in this area is connected with the admission of Mainland China to the United Nations and with Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. 1 refer to the expansion of the Russian naval presence in the Indian Ocean. It is quite possible that the whole confrontation of the great powers may be passing from the European mainland to the basin of the Pacific, which may well be the cockpit in which the great powers will confront one another in years to come. 
The Soviet Union is not withdrawing from the area. Mainland China is not withdrawing. Japan is present in the area. Britain and the United States are withdrawing, but if confrontation of these great powers should occur in this part of the world, and it seems to be a real strategic possibility, Australia will find herself in the very eye of the cyclone. All this is pointing to one thing - the increasing isolation of Australia in a situation of developing and emerging danger and vulnerability. That is the question with which we must be acquainted and concerned and which we must as far as possible try to convey to the Australian people. lt is never easy in times of peace to persuade a nation like Australia that is dedicated to peace to turn its thoughts towards mobilisation of the resources that may be used for war. That is natural and human and very much a part of the Australian character, but we feel that the responsibility rests upon some, unpleasant as it may be, to draw the attention of the nation to this situation. We have always found that in a crisis the Australian people will face up to the demands of the situation, no matter how rigorous they may be. 
Therefore the Democratic Labor Party is grievously concerned about the developing position of the Australian nation in South East Asia in the light of Britain's new confrontation with Europe, in the light of the developing Chinese position and in the light of penetration by the Russian fleet. I have had the opportunity in the last 12 months of discussing in many countries of the world the expanded Soviet naval presence. The governments of those countries in one way or another are concerned about it. I have in mind Yugoslavia, Turkey, Israel, Great Britain, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. I had an opportunity to speak to the leaders of the governments of those countries because the Soviet naval presence is a matter which in one way or another occupies their minds. Turkey is concerned because the Bosphorus allows the passage of Soviet ships through the Dardanelles. Yugoslavia is concerned because the land umbilical cord would lie through Yugoslavia into the Adriatic to support the Russian naval presence. 
Israel is concerned because of passage through the Suez Canal; Britain because of her oil supply and trade routes in South East Asia. This is now becoming a matter of grave international consequence. When the Australian Government first proposed that we should accommodate ourselves to this position with very little concern, the Australian Democratic Labor Party took a strong and unrelenting stand and responded immediately in the Senate by denying in a formal sense to our good friend  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson an opportunity to make a statement. We declined to give leave for him to make a statement identical to a statement made in the House of Represenatives. We wanted to show our immediate response to the preparedness to accommodate the Soviet naval presence. Today there is a general concern among free peoples over this very matter. We of the DLP take great pride in the fact that we were the first to alert this nation to the situation of the Government. 

 Mr Deputy President, my time has substantially expired. Not in any aspect of hysteria or undue anxiety but with real concern for the welfare of this nation we say that we must assess the position realistically. It is a new position. We must prepare for ourselves within the limits of our economy a national policy to secure this nation against all those who potentially threaten our independence and integrity. 
I second the amendment. It incorporates the policy of the Australian Democratic Labor Party which has been propounded at general elections. It has been presented on many occasions in various ways in this chamber. The need for something like this is becoming more apparent and more urgent every day as proposition after proposition to retrieve the rural industries has been tried, tested and found wanting. We feel that our proposition is the only way in which the immediate and long term needs of the rural industries can be met. We feel that there is a demand among rural producers for some assistance of this kind through such an agency. We commend the amendment to honourable senators. 
The motion is in 2 parts, the first of which deals with slightly extended sitting hours. The second part relates to business after 8 o'clock on a Thursday evening. The Australian Democratic Labour Party regrets the need to extend the sitting hours which are already very long, but we realise the practicalities of the situation. The daily extension proposed is not unduly long and it has been left until quite late in the session to bring in the variation. In other words it is not an attempt to circumscribe the rights of senators or of the Senate, but as we face a heavy end of session legislative programme the proposal has been devised as a means by which it might be accommodated into the remaining period with the minimum of inconvenience and disturbance. 
For that, reason, while we think that the sitting days are increasingly long we do not see any reason to oppose the first part of the motion. Turning to the proposal that private members' business will be superseded on Thursday nights after  8  o'clock, this is again a rather traditional practice. Again it is regrettable that change is necessary. Perhaps at some time we will have to decide whether private members' business should not be. moved to another day. I think we must concede that the legislative programme of the Government is important, not only to the Government but also to the Opposition. Unless there are proposals that are basically and fundamentally opposed by non-Government senators, there are many measures of tremendous importance to both sides, most of which are substantially supported by both sides. 
As a matter of emphasis and priority, the legislative programme of the Government generally must be given first place, with proper opportunities for dissent and objection. I have noticed in this session a diminution of the desire of senators to speak in the debate in the motion for the adjournment of the Senate. I have heard fewer speeches in the adjournment debate this session than used to be the practice. 
 I was absent for a little while but my recollection is that we have not had the protracted and full scale debates on the adjournment motion that characterised the Senate on other occasions. It may have come about with the emergence of the committeee system, particularly the standing committees. Senators are often satisfied to have matters concerning them referred to a standing committee for investigation in depth rather than have them canvassed in the Senate. That may now be sought as an alternative method. I can see many matters referred to standing committees that might well have been the subject of a motion in private members' business or a speech in the adjournment debate. That may account for the fact that we are getting fewer speeches in the adjournment debate. The developing committee system is also a warrant for not being so solicitous in respect of any diminution of opportunities for private members' business, because alternative avenues of a certan character are in some measure available. It is not that anybody wants to circumscribe the rights of private members. They are tremendously important. Through urgency motions and private members' business, important matters are raised. 
The Democratic Labour Party has taken advantage of opportunities to present private members' business, as honourable senators are aware. At one stage  Senator Murphy  thought that we were unduly trespassing with our notices of motion on private members' business section of the notice paper. In an accommodation, into which this party is always willing to enter, we withdrew some of our motions and some motions of the Opposition then came towards the forefront of the business sheet. Nevertheless, while on this occasion we see it this way we would be very sensitive to any undue or premature truncation of the rights of private members or of the opportunities for General Business. We support the motion in both parts. 
I am concerned generally that the Senate is allowing its sitting times to be determined according to the will and wishes of another place. When the other place determined that it would sit for a fortnight and rise for a week, we fell into that pattern. Now it. has decided that that is inconvenient and we have resumed 3 weeks of sitting and a recess of one week. This is quite unconnected with the particular new duties, responsibilities and obligations falling upon senators. We have an intensity of committee work and in the week off all of us are called to serve on a committee of one kind or another. 
When we had one week off in three it was practicable to do this but now that we sit for 3 weeks and the odd days are occupied in committee work, the recess of the fourth week will be filled by longer sittings of committees. Those pressures do not apply to the House of Representatives. Even though it may cause some inconvenience between the 2 Houses I think the Senate at some stage will have to look at the attempted synchronisation with another place in the light of the inconvenience resulting to the Senate, and not consider merely the convenience of the other place or of the Government. 
I strongly urge honourable senators to have some regard to that suggestion during the approaching parliamentary recess and determine whether we should not, with reasonable regard for the interconvenience of the 2 Houses, have our own sitting times in the light of our new, extending and developing committee obligations. After all, the week's recess is very precious to honourable senators who have political as well as parliamentary responsibilities and duties. It is becoming virtually impossible for us to discharge them. The situation is now that the House of Representatives is a political forum and this is purely and exclusively a parliamentary forum. That should not be the position. The Senate is also a political forum and senators have political as well as parliamentary duties. They should not allow the disposition of another place to prevent their discharging that duality of duties which this attempted synchronisation, now apparently accepted as a fact, will produce. The DLP supports the motion moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. 
The Democratic Labor Party does not support this amendment. It would appear to precipitate tremendous administrative problems and would seem to cut across the whole conspectus of the legislation. I would imagine that the great bulk of examinable agreements would emerge unscathed from the examination. Therefore, to put all those in the position of those indelict and then to discover some of them were not appears to me to be a complete transposition of what should be the normal approach to this situation. I do not think it is necessary to expatiate on our reasons at length. This amendment does seek in a general sense to give the impression of a complete translation of where the responsibility and onus should lie and I do not favour that type of situation. Without going into that at any great depth I say merely that for these general reasons the Democratic Labor Party cannot support the amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does the Prime Minister, in view of the statement attributed to the Minister for Trade and Industry, on his return from recent discussions with European countries and the United Kingdom, that there does not seem to be very much reaction or consideration of Australia's circumstances either in the United Kingdom or Europe,  consider that Australia's position has been prejudiced by the failure to discover the views of the Parliament on this matter of such critical importance. 
Will the Prime Minister now consider the tabling of a White Paper or otherwise give an opportunity for the Parliament to voice its opinions on this matter of such historical and profound significance to Australia. 
The Acting Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
At all stages in the negotiations the British Government and the Governments of the Six have been well aware of Australia's views on matters being negotiated relevant to Australian trade interests. In particular Australia sought assurances that arrangements would be made so that Australian exports to Britain would not have to face, immediately on British entry, the variable levies of the EEC's Common Agricultural Policy and tile other external barriers to trade but that the present access to Britain would be phased out over a suitable transitional period. As the Minister for Trade and Industry indicated in his statement to the House, it is the British Government's view that the safeguard clause arrangements they negotiated with the Six will be better from the point of view of protecting Australian trade interests during the transitional period than other proposals that had been put forward. 
The matter referred to by the Honourable  Senator has  already been the subject of a Ministerial statement made in both Chambers. Debate on the statement has been adjourned in both the Senate and the House of Representatives. Whether debate can be resumed in either House depends upon the progress of business in each case and upon decisions to be taken by each House as to business to be considered. 
This Bill, as stated by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  and as has been adverted to by other honourable senators, is merely a holding measure made necessary by the application of the High Court to the previous Act in which the High Court discovered constitutional informalities which make the passage of this Bill necessary. It is significant thai this is perhaps the first statute which has been expressly related to corporation power, more particularly in the light of its new interpretation or re-interpretation by the High Court. For that reason, it is almost an historic measure. One does not know in the future how far the application of this re-interpretation, this relook or even this first time look at this power, might go or ultimately what the repercussions will be for Australia. 
Another significant feature of this Bill is that, according to the Attorney, it does not purport to change the essential character or the essential terms of the statute which it replaces to rectify the unconstitutional provisions or the provisions which may be challengeable in the absence of reenactment of the legislation. This is significant because, first of ail, the previous legislation did not operate for a great deal of time. It has been under legal challenge. Administratively, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has said, there has been a great backlog of registrations which therefore have prevented an assessment of the application of the Act in its operative period. So, whether these provisions in their present form are the best provisions, and are operable provisions in the administrative and effective commercial sense, cannot altogether be estimated and assessed. I think that it is regrettable, therefore, that a situation has arisen in which we are required to re-enact legislation when it has not been deemed proper or fit, in the absence of such an ability to assess the operations of the Act which is being repealed or replaced, to determine whether the provisions of that Act should be altered or strengthened. 
However, the Government has intimated through the Minister in his second reading speech that while this Act does not extend or strengthen the provisions of the replaced statute, the Government has the matter under close attention. What may be the meaning of that rather indefinite term. I do not know. Actually, unless the administrative structure is strengthened so that the provisions of the Act will be able to flow through and the adequacy of its operation in the community can be assessed over a reasonably short period, it is improbable that the Government will have before it the information necessary to enable it to make an assessment on which the necessity for strengthening or widening the operation of the legislation can be determined. Therefore, I appeal to the Government as far as possible and as soon as possible to try to increase and improve the administrative structure which supports the legislation so that, at an early date, we can get the legislation operating to the fullest and the most practical effect. 
I do think that the Bill is most specific and interesting. I refer first to Part IV - Examinable Agreements and Practices'. Clause 35 states:  (1.) An Agreement is an examinable agreement for the purposes of this Act if. whether as originally made or by reason of a subsequent variation, it is an, agreement the parties to which are or include two or more persons, at least one of which is a corporation, carrying on businesses that are competitive with each other and each of which is a business of the supply of goods or services and if it is an agreement under which a restriction of any of the kinds referred to in the next succeeding subsection is accepted by a corporation, being one of those persons, in relation to any such business, whether or not the restriction is accepted by another of those persons. 
This clause is in most specific terms so that there shall be as little doubt constitutionally as is possible in the way in which the statute is framed. Because of the sensitivity of the legislation and because of the challenge it poses to certain sections of the community, it must be given immunity from successful challenge, so far as it is humanly possible to do so and so far as drafting ingenuity can provide. We hope that this is a Bill which will withstand such a challenge. However, it is only a holding measure. We hope that the Government, as quickly as possible and as far as possible within the administrative limits which are now available, will examine the operations of the principles of this type of legislation and their effect within the economy. 
Undoubtedly this type of legislation is necessary. In the type of economic society in which we now live there is a constant struggle, a constant battle, against the ingenuity of commercial interests to operate within the law to their own commercial advantage. They may regard this not as a matter of exploitation of the community but as an achievement owed to the shareholders of corporations or to those who own the operating interests. Sometimes practices can be developed within the law which, while of advantage to those people, can in the ultimate have a very adverse effect and influence on the whole life of the community. That is the constant battle which is operating between those who, in the public area, have a responsibility for the stability and protection of society and those who, in their field, feel they have a responsibility to persons who own and operate the corporations which provide certain goods and services. It is a constant battle, as I say, within the law. I suppose that legitimate advantages are taken of any loopholes in the law and it is the province, and responsibility of government sometimes acting desperately, to plug the holes and close the gaps. This legislation is designed to do that. It replaces legislation in which a flaw was discovered. That flaw now apparently is being removed by this Bill. 
We must understand that this type of legislation is now inbuilt into the disciplined economy which we have come to accept and which all sections of the community now project as being the type of economy desirable. In that regard it is necessary to provide some element of social justice. We expect that over the years this legislation, following examination of its operation, will be strengthened and extended and that it will have to meet challenges from time to time. We would hope that when the substantive Bill is introduced to replace this temporary provision the Government will take the fullest advantage of the information then available to make that legislation as effective and as embracing as is possible. In the meantime we welcome this Bill. We regret the necessity for it. We regret that its predecessor was found vulnerable to constitutional legal challenge. However, the Government is to be commended for bringing down this temporary replacing Bill. We hope that in due course, within a not unduly long time, it will be replaced with a Bill which, with the experience of the Government, the Trade Practices Tribunal and the Commissioner of Trade Practices, will be even more effective in achieving the purpose for which this type of legislation is designed. The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
My attention has been drawn to the debate on the Trade Practices Bill in 1965. I do not speak of this matter with any personal familiarity or acquaintance, but on that occasion an identical proposition was presented in the debate.  Senator Gorton,  as he then was, was in charge of the Bill in the Senate. Obviously there is nothing particularly novel about this proposition in the sense that it was before the Government for consideration many years ago, and before the Senate. The element of surprise would therefore appear to be absent in considering this proposition. On that occasion the Australian Democratic Labor Party, then represented by  Senator Gair  and  Senator McManus,  saw fit to support the proposed amendment. I see no reason why the Democratic Labor Party should depart from the attitude it then took. 
I have not heard from the AttorneyGeneral any compelling reason why there should be any variance in the attitude of those who at that stage took the stance disclosed in the debate of 1965. I do not know whether I correctly understood the Attorney-General, but I cannot believe that the mere fact that a person has monopoly power in itself in the reading of this section would preclude him from trading without offending the provision. It would appear to me that the provision contemplates that there must be first of all the existence of monopoly power and the intention to exercise it contrary to the statute. Therefore I do not think that a fair interpretation of the provision would create such a position. 

 Mr Chairman, in the circumstances the Democratic Labor Party sees fit to support the amendment proposed by  Senator Murphy,  it being a repetition of an amendment proposed long ago and one which emerged at the initiative originally of  Sir Garfield  Barwick. Apparently it was put to the people by the then Prime Minister before an election. It has been before the people and the Parliament for consideration over very many years and again it presents itself. If, when this legislation is finally drafted in definitive form, it is suggested that this proposal should be abandoned, there will be another opportunity to consider it. I do not see at this stage why the Democratic Labor Party should not support the amendment. 
I take it that at the moment the register is substantially if not completely secret. I ask the Attorney-General whether that is the case? 
It is intended in that section that the secrecy of the register be maintained. Section 40 states that the register shall be kept in such form and manner as the Commissioner directs. Is that to be read in consonance with section 34 which deals with the manner and form of the secrecy provisions? Am I to take  Senator Murphy's  amendment to mean that there would be a dissection of information, some of which would remain secret and some of which would be generally available? 
In the light of the proposition put forward by the AttorneyGeneral, because there may be dangers inherent in this amendment and in the light also of the fact that the whole of the legislation can be re-examined, I think it might be imprudent for us to disturb the present practice. I do not feel disposed on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to support this disturbance of the existing practice at the present time. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 41 agreed to. 
Clause 42.  (1.) Where an agreement has become subject to registration under this Part, particulars of the agreement, in accordance with this section and verified as required by this section, shall be furnished to the Commissioner within the period of thirty days after the date on which the agreement became subject to  registration. 
 Beneficial as against, say, trust ownership or control - rather equivalent to a title in fee simple in relation to real property. 
 That is a very technical question. In half an hour I do not have time to go into the technical details. 1 think everybody knows what is understood by beneficial ownership in general terms and the intent and purport of this motion. The object of the motion is to reflect in this formal manner the concern which is being expressed nationally in so many quarters and to take positive action in this place to do something about it. What is proposed by the Australian Democratic Labor Party on whose behalf I speak today is this: We propose this urgency motion and we wish it to be put to a vote. We wish the Senate to record its sense of the urgency of the situation. That having been done we will tomorrow propose a motion in this place for the appointment of a select committee of the Senate to investigate the whole matter of public investment in Australia flowing from overseas hands. As the motion might be delayed for a long time in debate and in implementation we then propose to move that it be raised to a level of priority. This will enable its early debate and immediate determination so that such a select committee, if created and given appropriate terms of reference, can begin to operate, particularly with the administrative examination, during the long parliamentary recess which is coming up. That is the approximate manner of approach of the Democratic Labor Party to this situation. 1 know - that is why I have couched the motion in moderate terms - that we are dealing with a very sensitive situation. We are dealing with the flow and interflow of capital resources. I do not wish this matter to be debated in any atmosphere of hysteria - in other words by its being said that this country is being taken over - or with any exaggeration. That can only have the effect of deterring the legitimate flow of capital which, properly controlled and disciplined, is absolutely and vitally necessary for the development of Australian resources. But we do feel that this is a matter which must attract early examination in depth and in breadth. It is  a  matter at which the Australian people are looking and with which they are vitally concerned. We need quite a calm appreciation of the whole situation. I trust that the Senate, giving its mind to this position, will find it appropriate to support the creation of an appropriate select committee of the Senate to examine the whole matter so that we will know just where we are going. 
This motion has 2 connotations. In my concept, a motion of this kind, to attract, must be important and it must be urgent. I think that nobody could deny the intrinsic importance of the matter which is now before the Senate. On the figures that I shall present I trust that nobody will deny the urgency of the need for consideration of the consequences of the position which is now becoming manifest. I have had a document prepared by the Research Department of the Parliamentary Library in relation to overseas investment. If it is not alarming to read it has very serious implications concerning the extent to which foreign ownership of Australian resources has developed over the years. Because my time is limited I shall refer briefly to certain sections of this document. 
 Yes, I can incorporate the whole document. I thank  Senator Murphy  for the suggestion. In 1966-67 overseas controlled companies contributed 26.3 per cent of the total value of production of manufacturing industries in Australia. In 1968 they contributed 58 per cent of the total value of production of mining industries in Australia compared with 39 per cent in 1964. In the table to which I shall now refer selected manufacturing industries arc characterised by  a  high degree of foreign control, and these are listed. This table shows the degree of overseas control of selected Australian manufacturing industries as at 1966-67. Apparently these are the latest figures available. 
1 will indicate that later on. Tlhc degree of overseas control in relation to motor vehicle construction and assembly was 87.8 per cent; non-ferrous metals, rolling and extrusion, 83.6 per cent; soap and candles; 82 per cent; mineral oils, refining, 81.6 per cent; industrial and heavy chemicals and acids, 78 per cent; pharmaceutical and toilet preparations, 76.3 per cent. These percentages show the degree of foreign control in the various products. Those figures come from the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
The degree of overseas control in the Australian mining industry measured in terms of value of production in 1964 comparatively with 1968 is as follows: Overseas control in the metaliferous mining industry in 1964 was 53 per cent and in 1968 it was 69 per cent. In the fuel sector of the mining industry overseas control in 1964 was 18 per cent and in 1968 it was 40 per cent. In other areas of mining, overseas control amounted to 20 per cent in 1964 and to 29 per cent in 1968. There we see this tremendous rise in the degree of foreign control of Australia, particularly in the important segments of the Australian economy on which Australia is relying more and more today and will rely more and more in the future. 
In answer to  Senator Webster's  query as to what I meant by overseas controlled companies, the definitions which apparently are accepted by the Bureau for the purposes of its computations are as follows: Firstly, branches of companies incorporated overseas and registered in Australia as foreign companies; secondly, Australian companies in which at least 50 per cent of the ordinary shares, or voting stock, is held by individual persons or companies resident in one overseas country, or where 25 per cent or more of the ordinary shares, or voting stock, is held by one company or a group of associated companies; thirdly, wholly or partly owned subsidiaries of companies included in the first 2 definitions. Therefore I think that is a fair definition of what is an overseas controlled company. Those percentages can then be assessed, and the degree to which there has been this movement of the ownership of Australian assets into non-Australian hands is becoming unfortunately only too manifest. 
I wish to refer to the second reading speech made in the House of Representatives on Tuesday, 5th May 1970 on the 
Bill to set up the Australian Industry Development Corporation. The speech was delivered by  Mr McEwen,  as he then was. It stated in part: 
It is, nevertheless, a matter of national concern that overseas capital is usually obtained on terms which have resulted in predominantly foreign ownership of many of our greatest industrial enterprises, and fastest growing industries. 
In 1969 alone, at least IS Australian owned companies, with assets worth $mom disappeared from the lists of the two largest stock exchanges because of takeover by overseas interests. There are also, of course, many other companies which have continued in existence but with the overseas ownership growing and becoming dominant. 
But too frequently in the pattern of such arrangements, when the Australian partner cannot meet his share of the capital requirements - whether equity or loan- he will at best become the minor partner in the new enterprise that results. 
The Minister went on to say: 
Looking deeper into the statistics, we see a vastly different picture. If we look at the situation in factories with over 20 employees, we find for example, that the motor vehicle industry is nearly 90 per cent foreign controlled. The industrial and heavy chemicals industry, and the pharmaceuticals industry, over SO per cent foreign controlled. In the electrical and electronic industries, including in the total many small enterprises, overseas ownership is around 50 per cent. Production of alumina and aluminium is about 75 per cent owned overseas. 
Foreign domination is not confined to the largest industries. The production in Australia of such day-to-day items as roller bearings, electrical hand tools, abrasives, and glazed ceramic tiles, to mention a few of the smaller and more specialised industries, is carried out predominantly by foreignowned companies. 
That is a speech made by the Minister in the House of Representatives in the course of introducing the Bill to create the new Australian Industry Development Corporation, the intended purpose of which was to attempt to relieve the situation. We must therefore assess this situation against the general background of the present Australian position. First of all, it must be assessed against the decline in the area of rural production where there is a vast translation of the very nature of the basic Australian economy, a process which will continue, which will accelerate and which will expand in that sense. We will become perhaps more and more a secondary industrial country. We will become a country depending more and more upon the exploration for and the exploitation and development of primary resources other than the agricultural resources and those things that generally come from the land. That is the pattern today which is evident in the development of our mineral resources. Therefore now is the critical time to act. If we are to do anything about this situation it must be done now, because we stand on the threshold of a completely new economic era in Australia and the whole economic pattern of Australia will be vastly altered. 
We discuss this matter against the general background of the rather fluid international monetary situation, where capital movements across the world, due to the realignment of currencies, is very fluid. With nations and individuals in those nations now seeking sources of exploration and the commitment of capital, Australia, because of ils political stability, because of its natural resources, because of other attractive elements in the Australian investment scene, will attract this money which is now becoming available to Australia. Again it is a time when we must move, if ever we are to move. We have the advent of the European Economic Community, the full consequences of which may not be known or apparent to Australia, but obviously that also will affect the flow of capital with the emergence of the new European economic unit and again the movement of capital across the world. 
We have the changing structure of Australian society, and in particular we have the extraordinary consequences of the newly discovered Australian affluence and the effect of the now burst mining bubble of the mining boom, which crashed within the last 2 or 3 years. Up to that time the newly developed Australian affluent society produced savings in the hands of people which they committed to speculative enterprises, the result of which was a big inflow, from individual private sources, of capital investment into developmental and speculative enterprises. So many people in a rather unsophisticated market had their fingers burnt that many of them have withdrawn from the market, with the consequences we know. But in the affluent society there are still large amounts of free money which they are committing to ordinary deposits in savings and trading banks. In other words, there is building up in 
Australia a tremendous bank of available capital for commitment in the hands of the Australian people. 
This is indicated by the figures which I now take the liberty of presenting to the Senate. These figures from all the trading banks show the liability of the trading banks, excluding shareholders funds. Again they have been provided by the Legislative Research Service of the Library. In 1960- 61 the total fixed deposits in Australia were S842m: today they are S3, 188m, an increase of more than SI 00m since last year. The figures standing at current account have doubled since 1960-61 and have increased by S339m since last year to a total of $7,339m. Therefore the total available money is $8,078m in bank deposits and $3.1 88m in fixed deposits. There is in the hands of Australian citizens a vast sum of capital resources available for commitment if we can do two things. The first is: Reassure the Australian people that there are worthwhile investments in Australia which arc completely above reproach, these investments being subject to the ordinary commercial risks which anyone speculating must be prepared to accept. The second is: Reassure people that these investments will be protected and that where they commit their money they will have the protection of public authorities which will ensure that they are not the victims of depredations, bogus prospectuses or matters of that kind. 
In addition to those monies which are in the trading banks, S7,634m, in round figures, is in the savings banks. There is this tremendous bank of capital monies available for investment and it is in Australian hands. This is a situation where the accumulation of these monies is a potential embarrassment to a government trying to control the economy because if those monies flow out into consumer goods the effect could greatly precipitate the inflationary process. But the people with money in the banks are reluctant, in view of their rather recent experiences, to commit these monies to mining or enterprise ventures. We must do something to see how this money can, firstly, be mobilised and, secondly, be attracted to the national investment and development market. That, as honourable senators will see, is one of the heads of reference of the subject which is now before the Senate, namely: 
The best method of mobilising available Australian private capital resources and attracting its commitment to national development whether by tire operations of income tax, company tax or otherwise. 
But, very obviously, a situation has developed of which great advantage can be taken. There is an alternative. We realise that in a young country such as this a capital inflow in some dimensions is, of course, of vital importance. We can never do without it in the conceivable future; we should never attempt to do without it. It is only a question of finding that balance between the inflow of capital and the surrender of the control of our own natural resources or our own national corporation activities. But we have this money as an alternative and why it should not by some means or other be made available itd why inducements should not be held out to have it available in lieu of the need to go overseas for capital I do not know. When we have this vast bank of uncommitted capital monies it should not be necessary for us to seek the overseas markets as we do. 
That is the general background against which we present this proposition. But there are particular situations against which we present it also. I refer - and I do this without the slightest criticism to the very distinguished Australian concern - to the proposed flotation or the resort to the market of Gunn Resources and Exploration Incorporated, a company which  Sir William  Gunn has incorporated in the United States for the development of rural properties in Western Australia and the Northern Territory. There was a case where  Sir William  Gunn no doubt found it necessary to approach the American capital market in the absence of money being available in the Australian market. That I do not criticise. But it is a matter for us to discover whether there are alternatives in respect of which that type of money can be discovered in Australia so that the ownership of these resources shall remain in Australian hands. I understand that no approach to the market has been made yet by that incorporated United States company. Whether it is going ahead or not I do not know; but that is one straw in the wind that has persuaded the Australian Democratic Labor Party to raise this matter at this stage. 
There was a suggestion or a rumour that there might be a very big Japanese investment in the salt industry in Western Australia. That also has not gone ahead. But it would be a matter of immense consequence if that had taken place because of the trade Japan/ Australia within the jail area, the effect that would have had on the price of salt in Australia, and also the overseas price of our exports of salt. Those matters would have been of very great concern. 
Then we have the further incidence of the Burmah-Woodside oil consortium in the north-west of Western Australia. As honourable senators know, the Woodside company and Mid-Eastern Oil have discovered a major gas field and also at this stage a significant free flow oilfield which may expand into something of major proportions. I confess here that I have been a very minor shareholder in Woodside over many years. Of all the millions of shares, I think 1 own 200 or 250. Also, rather recently I think I purchased 200 shares in Mid-Eastern. I consider that I should just mention that fact. It has now been proposed that a consortium will be formed of Woodside Oil NL, Mid-Eastern Oilmaybe Santos, but I am not sure - and the Burmah Oil Co., which, of course, is a non-Australian company. This is the position in relation to this takeover. A consortium of exploration companies including Woodside Oil NL, Mid-Eastern Oil and the British oil group have discovered a major field of natural gas. The field includes the Rankin North and the Scott's Reef structures; the former is estimated to hold reservoirs of 4 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. 
On 12th August the  chairman  of Woodside,  Mr J.  G. Donaldson, announced that Woodside, Mid-Eastern and Burmah would merge to form a holding company entitled Woodside-Burmah Oil NL in which Burmah would hold 50.3 per cent of the equity. With Woodside-Burmah as the dominant group within the consortium, this merger implies that effective control of the development of this discovery passes to the overseas Burmah group. It is possible that the development of this field could provide the necessary resources of power for the broad-based industrial development of the Pilbara region. One of the reasons - and this is very legitimate - for the merger mentioned by the  chairman  of Woodside was the likely difficulties of mobilising sufficient capital if the local companies - Woodside and Mid-Eastern - attempted to develop the discovery alone. In this regard, this project represents a possible case where the Australian Industry Development Corporation could come to the party. 
In the document to the shareholders of Woodside the  chairman, Mr Donaldson,  said: 
The proposed merger would result in a consolidation of our joint interests into one entity, Australian based and managed albeit with slightly over 50 per cent owned in London. 
The real significance of a thing like this becomes apparent. This is a developing area of Austrafia with immense resources of natural gas and probably potentially immense resources of natural and free flowing oil. It is a power field that would support some immense technical recovery complex in that part of Western Australia with steel mills and activities of that kind. In other words, there is so much tied up in this area. This power field would also be contiguous to the great Pilbara iron ore region which is being developed by many people. Yet, the control of the power resource in this area on this takeover would necessarily pass - and this is acknowledged - out of Australian hands. 
We have the example of the recent development by  Mr Lang  Hancock in relation to the Pilbara region. As this matter may be one of litigation - I am not sure of the area of it - it would not be appropriate for me to discuss it on this occasion. 
1 think I could mention a fact which would be a public fact. 1 refer to a speech which was made by  Mr Hancock  on only 4th November this year. I speak in the context of the leases that he, and I think his partners, had discovered. These were the Angelas leases to which a permanent title was not given but was hived off and has been given to a consortium. 1 do not go into the merits or demerits of that hive off. I merely look at the consequences.  Mr Hancock  said: 
The rights of occupancy on the Angelas were held in abeyance until, for some extraordinary and inexplicable reason, the Minister for Mines issued a statement that he had confiscated these discoveries from Hancock and Wright and allocated them to Armco Resources Pty Ltd - not the Armco Steel Corporation - but Armco Resources, a Sydney registered American company with a paid up capital of $2 and a nominal capital of $10,000; completely managed by Americans. 
There is a case, of course, where again a significant portion of Australian assets is passed to an American based company. I am not saying that this is a matter of antiAmericanism, or anything of that kind. 
 I am quoting from a report of a speech by  Mr Hancock  which was made at the Inaugural VicePresidential Dinner of the Contact Club in Sydney on 4th November 1971, only a few days ago. I do not go into the matter because there is litigation covering it but there is an instance in respect of which, on the facts, the assets have passed out of substantial Australian control. I am not alleging that these matters have come under no government scrutiny - that would be unfair - but over. the years guidelines as to the participation by foreign interests in Australian corporations and in Australian companies have been laid down. In 1965 investment guidelines were laid down by the then Prime Minister and the then Treasurer. They were restated by  Mr Gorton,  the then Prime Minister, in 1969. Wilh some amendments they have been followed through since then. 
Those investment guidelines went only to the control of debt commitment, not to the control of equity commitment. There has never been a guideline laid down as to the control of equity investment in public corporations in Australia by overseas interests. It would bc a matter of interesting analysts to see the extent to which the guidelines have operated successfully or unsuccessfully. Good and all as the guidelines may be, they go only a small part of the way in this more important subject of control of equity investment. Participation in the beneficial ownership of Australian industries has never been the subject of discipline at the instigation of the Government. 
I know that in 2 cases the Government did intervene. It intervened when there were rumours of the attempted take-over of the MLC Assurance Co. Ltd and in the attempted movements in relation to Queensland Mines Ltd"s great uranium discovery. The Government could intervene in those cases because of one reason - both companies, fortuitously, were registered in the Australian Capital Territory. Therefore, action being within Commonwealth power the action was able to be taken. In each case  Mr Gorton  moved in and stopped what would have been the complete take-over of major Australian enterprises - one in the field of assurance and the other in the field of the control and exploration of natural resources. He moved in to prevent that happening. That process has not been available in other company cases because of the limitations of constitutional power. With the re-interpretation of the corporation power, as given by the High Court in the concrete pipes case decision, there is now possibly a vast constitutional field available to the Commonwealth Government which has not been explored. What was not possible before or what was possible only in the cases where the companies were registered in the Australian Capital Territory may now be possible. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I move: 
Thai the Senate, at ils rising, adjourn until  tomorrow  at 10.29 a.m. 
I do so for the purpose of enabling a debate on a matter of urgency, namely: 
The growing concern in Australia regarding the alienation of  the  beneficial ownership of Australian resources to non-Australian interests. 
The level of beneficial ownership and control by non-Australian interests in public companies and corporations. 
The best method of reconciling the attraction of overseas capital for Australian development with the retention of Australian ownership and control. 
The best method of mobilising available Australian private capital resources and attracting its commitment to national development whether by operation of income tax, company tax or otherwise. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the proposals contained in the Bill. It is an indication of the growing sophistication of international trade and of the difficulties that necessarily arise and accompany such sophistication. The Bill contains a complete change in emphasis as against the method that has been operating prior to the acceptance of its provisions. Under the prevailing system the guarantees were given to the exporter. Now the loans will be provided to the buyer. The reason for that is a very obvious and a very natural one. Previously the exporter selling capital goods on long term conditions, with a guarantee from the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, naturally had to carry for a long time a contingent liability which would severely circumscribe his ability to obtain finance for other transactions. We know that in modern commercial transactions so much of the business is conducted on what we might call revolving credit, that once there is a stoppage in the pipeline of credit there is a stultification of the whole commercial process. That operated under the prevailing system, lt has been beneficial and valuable, but nevertheless it has exposed weaknesses which the Bill sets out to obviate. 
I do not pay particular attention to the other aspect of the Bill which has been canvassed by other honourable senators, but I do welcome this provision because it will facilitate the revolving of credit and the transactions between exporters in this country and purchasers overseas, lt is a much more modern method. I am gratified to find that other countries have institutions similar to the Corporation which will provide to the counterpart to the supplier in the country of purchase similar opportunities to those that are provided in this country by the Corporation under this legislation, lt is a salutory and an encouraging thought that international trade has reached such a condition of sophistication - 1 use that term again - that institutions which have grown up in one country, and which might be under one political and social system, can find a reflection and an emergence in a different political and social system but a pattern of operation of the same kind which undoubtedly will result in a much freer flow of world trade and which will enable an interchange of goods and money at a much more rapid rate and, therefore, with a much more fruitful and worth while result. 
For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party welcomes the Bill. The Democratic Labor Party welcomes it because it indicates the Government's alertness to a developing situation, the Government's recognition of the difficulties that have arisen, and that the Government has moved to meet them. We hope that the Bill will result in a further improvement in our export trade which is of such vital importance to Australia in a very difficult economic era when the whole pattern of Australia's export trade is changing, and when some of our traditional exports are now in a state of decline. It is important that alternative exports should find their place and their accommodation. By the operation of a corporation such as this, that supply of goods will be advanced. Therefore, on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party, I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
I rise merely to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill which is the consequence of a change in the union position. Part of the union previously concerned becomes embraced within another union and another part becomes embraced with the Waterside Workers' Federation of Australia. It is important that unions have their proper function within the community and that they be given their proper status and recognition. As stated by the Attorney;General  (Senator Greenwood)  in the absence of a Bill of this character and the redefinition of the word 'union' there would have been a void in this area and a body of trade unions would have found no trade union home with the right to audience which goes with an embracing of union membership. For these unions the legislation is timely. It is necessary and it is appropriate. The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon: 
Whether or not foreign ownership and control of companies in Australia is in fact prejudicial to Australia's interests in all circumstances; 
The increasing alienation of the beneficial ownership of Australian resources to nonAustralian interests; 
The level of beneficial ownership and control by non-Australian interests in public companies and corporations; 
The best method of reconcilingthe inflow of overseas capital for Australian development with the retention of Australian ownership and control; 
The best method of mobilising available Australian private capital resources and attracting its commitment to national development whether by operation of income tax, company tax, by restoration of public confidence in the stock market for Australian shares, or otherwise; 
The operation of the present exchange con trol restrictions which prevent Australian investors from buying shares in companies registered overseas which may have a major beneficial interests in an Australian company; 
The desirability of reviewing legislation which limits insurance and trustee companies to investments in specified securities, in the main excluding mining and manufacturing operations in Australia; 
The extent to which foreign ownership and control limits the export performance and initiative of overseas companies operating in Australia; 
The extent to which foreign companies introduce valuable skills and technology and whether these can be gained in other ways; 
Whether the purpose for which foreign capital is sought or is made available should be a factor in determining its acceptability, and 
Matters incidental thereto. 
That the committee consist of Senators to be appointed by a subsequent resolution,. 
That the committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to meet and transact business notwithstanding any prorogation of the Parliament. 
That the committee have leave to report from time totime its proceedings and the evidence taken and such recommendations as it may deem fit. 
That the committee report to the Senate as soon as possible. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
I was intrigued with that part of the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  on this Bill in which he adverted to the ancillary rights which were affected. He did not put the accent on what I thought was the more important aspect of the trespass of the person, that is, on the status of the person. In his second reading speech, more particularly where he canvassed the provisions of the Bill, he did advert to this point. After all, a judgment of status is a judgment in rem. That is most important. 
This has been a sensitive field in the operation of Commonwealth constitutional law in the conferring of power on other judicial bodies and it is one which has come under constant judicial scrutiny. There have been many  distrubances  where tribunals have purported to be vested with  judicial power and it has been found to be extra legem the Constitution. This is another illustration. This is a very sensitive field of law. After all, where the status of persons and a person's judgment in rem is determined, and where rights of matrimonial proceedings are affected, it is of extraordinary significance and of tremendous importance to the parties concerned. Therefore it is of vital importance that as far as possible any doubts resulting from the High Court's decision invalidating certain procedures should be determined forthwith. Therefore the Australian Democratic Labor Party welcomes the passage of this Bill and will support it. 
 The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports these Bills. There are one or two comments which I would like to make and one or two questions which I would like to direct to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood).  The position (pf judges has come under question due to a decision of the High Court in which their status as officers of a Federal court came under challenge. That august body determined that they did not occupy the position which would give them life tenure. Therefore statutory creation of their tenure of office becomes necessary. That is being done by these Bills. What confuses me is the following passage in the AttorneyGeneral's second reading speech on the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court Bill: 
The tenure to be provided for the additional judges must take account of the fact that the primary judicial appointments of such judges will generally be to Federal courts and accordingly governed by the Constitution. The Bill provides, therefore, that an additional judge is to hold office as such while he continues as a judge of another court created by the Parliament. 
Am I to conclude from that that the door to additional judicial appointments to the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory is barred to other than those already holding other judicial appointments in a Federal court? That would appear to be the meaning to be read into that statement by the Attorney-General. 
The Bill provides that an additional judge is to hold office as such while he continues as a judge of another court, yet the Attorney-General said that the primary judicial appointment of such judges will generally be to Federal courts. In other words, he contemplates a position in which that may not be the case. The only provision made is for a man who is already a judicial office holder in a Federal court. That would appear to close the door for any further appointments to the Supreme Court of the Territory other than of judges already appointed to another Federal court. That would appear to be the meaning that I am to read into that statement by the Attorney-General. If so, 1 would strongly query the wisdom of it because it may well be, as happens, that a person from the Canberra Bar may be entitled and may be completely suited to judicial appointment but he would be precluded. Being an additional judge and not being the holder of another Federal judicial office, he would not be eligible, in terms of what I read there, for appointment to the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. Without fulminating, I ask the Attorney-General whether I am correct. That would appear to me to be the position, if I have interpreted his statement correctly. 
One fact that emerges ls that some of these procedural provisions bring the practices of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory into line with practices operating in State courts - for example, the control of legal practitioners, 3 judges having the right to determine the eligibility of practitioners for admission, and the provision for reference to a bench of 3 judges cases which previously would have been referred to a single judge. I presume that this development is a result of the periodic meetings of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General as a consequence of which a very desirable uniformity in judicial and legal practices has emerged. I think that process should be encouraged instead of having the multiplicity of practices which has characterised our judicial and legal operations to date. 
I would like the Attorney-General to respond to the matter which  Senator Murphy  raised. I know that he will respond to it. I am somewhat confused about the criminal code which is projected for the Australian Capital Territory. Is that the same code which was drafted, perhaps at the instance of the Law Council, substantially by practitioners of the Queensland Bar? I know that a tremendous amount of work went into that over many years. The  chairman  of that committee was a most distinguished lawyer and medical practitioner. I have not studied the code or looked at it for a long while. 
Professor Morris from the University of Queensland. The committee went into the new psychological concepts - automatism, intent and things of that nature, the psychological aspects of which as related to modern life are now receiving more attention in the criminal law.  Senator Murphy  found occasion to criticise the code and I have no reason to doubt that his criticism was firmly based. I do know that a tremendous amount of work went into it. It is a document which, by its nature and by the exploratory nature of its drafting and the concepts embodied in it, is likely to attract criticism. My impression would be that it was a far reaching document quite in advance of the concepts which were embodied in previous codifications of the criminal law and that it embraced many of the developments in the research of modern medicine, particularly modern psychological medicine. Nevertheless, that does not render it immune from the scrutiny which a document of this character should receive if we are to emerge with a criminal code which if adopted in the Federal Territories will possibly, in the process to which I have referred, become the model on which the criminal law of the States might well develop. Therefore it is of prime importance that, when one is handed down in the Federal Territories, the best code that human intellect, legal drafting, legal skill and legal experience and knowledge can devise is presented. With those thoughts and having raised those minor queries with the Attorney-General, the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bills. 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General: Is there any power in the Broadcasting Control Board to prevent the gross intrusion into the comfort of television viewers by screaming commercial advertisements many decibels of sound above the level prevailing in the programme being viewed? If there is power, will the Board take steps to ensure that commercial advertisements are presented at a sound level which does not require the viewer to leap at the set in an attempt to reduce the volume? 
I am aware of the problems as presented by the Leader of the Government in theSenate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  which confront the members of this chamber.I agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  that we should be able to arrive at an accommodation which will satisfy the demands of all members of this chamber. However, there are one or two observations I would like to make. First of all, I do not think we have to regard the priorities of references to standing committees as immutable. Many of the present references are quite unequal. The first reference to the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts relates to the Commonwealth's role in regard to teacher education. That investigation is now concluding. Therefore, I do not think that it should be accepted as a tenable ong0i0g investigation. The next 3 references are in relation to petitions. Petitions fall into a different category to explicit references from the Senate to a standing committee for investigation. Therefore, I do not think that they should be necessarily regarded as substantial business before standing committees. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not argue about that, but 1 think it was the intention to refer them in that way. 
It is a matter of emphasis and priority. However, that is something to which the Senate has not particularly given its consideration and made an explicit reference. Petitions are propositions coming from the good people outside which honourable senators have decided should not be lightly put aside without some inquiry. But whether that inquiry should rank in priority over explicit references from the Senate is another matter. Leaving aside those petitions, the only other reference to the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts is all aspects of television and broadcasting in Australia, including the Australian content of television programmes. I would therefore take that one as being the measure of the most explicit reference before that Committee. When one goes through the matters which are before the other standing committees one finds the same thing. One finds that, due to the manner in which the references to those committees are s&gt;et out, many matters are listed that have been concluded. For example, a report has been presented by the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare in relation to mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia. 
I am saying that anybody who looks at the notice paper will gather this impression. I think the Leader of the Government may have referred to one reference which has concluded. The reference to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade in relation to the operation of the Australian National Line's shipping services to and from Tasmania has been concluded. The next matter referred to that Committee is a petition relating to the supply of liquefied petroleum gas to the Australian market. I think it is current knowledge that that inquiry is concluding, although a report on it has not been presented. That leaves only one reference to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade, that is, the promotion of trade and commerce with other countries, the operation of Australia's international trade agreements and the development of trading relations. In other words, the work load on these committees is perhaps not as great as might appear from a quick reading of the notice paper. 
But that does nol mean everything will have to be put aside by that Committee until the overall inquiry has been concluded. If the reference involves an on-going inquiry the Committee can pick up various aspects of it from time to time. It is obvious that other matters are entitled to be intruded while references which involve an on-going inquiry are put aside. I think that would be the logical way for such a committee of inquiry to operate. In other words, one reference should not be permitted to monopolise everything else. 1 think the Leader of the Opposition's proposition is a valid one. I think administrative procedures could be embarked on prior to the opening of an investigation and, in many of these fields, it seems to be most appropriate for that to be done in the parliamentary recess. I think it would be wise if this matter were to be stood aside until a report from the  Clerk  was presented to the Senate through the Leader of the Government as to the administrative structure which is available and whether the parliamentary recess could be profitably used in doing the preliminary work necessary to support an investigation of the matters standing on the notice paper and which we are now discussing, namely, Notices of Motion Nos 1 to 6. That appears to me to bethe logical thing to do. The  Clerk  might well advise the Leader of the Government that the necessary administrative staff is available and would welcome the opportunity to do and would be well occupied during the parliamentary recess doing preliminary work on the proposals put forward. I know that the work load on honourable senators is particularly heavy. It is perhaps heavier on no section of the Senate than on members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. That is because there are only 5 of us and we try to serve on as many committees as possible. Perhaps there are a few honourable senators in this chamber who have a heavier committee work burden than we do. But we do not complain about having such a heavy burden. We are merely saying that we are conscious of the work situation. 
I hope the Leader of the Government will agree to this matter being adjourned to a later hour in the day. He may be able then, with the assistance of the  Clerk,  to advise the Senate as to whether the administrative staff is available to do the work I have suggested and whether the administration would welcome the opportunity presented by the parliamentary recess to do the preliminary work that otherwise might have to be crowded into next year after the Senate reassembles. If my proposition were accepted it could in the long run assist the operation of the committee system and assist honourable senators rather than have the contrary affected. I would urge upon the Leader of the Government to inform the Senate of what the administrative position is and whether this type of alternative would be welcomed by the administrative staff. 
I do not think that we should allow to be laid aside matters which may well deserve priority over references which are now before the various standing committees. I do not think references which have already been made to standing committees should necessarily take first place in the queue. References may arise which are more important than ones which are already on the list. It is in the nature of the committee system that standing committees may often have to look at matters ad hoe and urgently. For example, a Bill which has been referred to a committee should receive priority over other matters. It is in the very concept of the standing committee system that such committees shall always have available to them the opportunity to consider any matters referred to them. I think that the standing committees should be conscious of that fact and should be prepared to lay aside references considered to be less important than references which come along subsequently. I would urge the Leader of the Government to adjourn the debate on this motion until he has acquainted' the Senate with the response of the administration to the suggestion I have made. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Film Classification Ordinance 1971, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 25 of 1971, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1970, be disallowed. 
by leave- I welcome the statement made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  1 should like to pay the Minister this tribute: The Senate has expressed a concern over a period of time in relation to these matters - a concern that has been taken info action to resist ordinances or regulations and sometimes statutes. The Minister is always sensitive to the opinion of the Senate, and I welcome that. I think the Senate deeply appreciates that sensitivity. This is another example of it. The attitude of the 
Australian Democratic Labor Party is that while initially we did support the propositions that mostly came from the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  requiring amendments to be made to Bills as they were introduced, finally a point came when we took a stand that this sporadic approach to these matters was not a good one, that it was only a casual one which meant that merely because a Bill relating to a principal Act happened to come before the chamber the matter was dealt with in relation to that officer and no others. It was a very unsatisfactory method of procedure, and from then on we were not prepared to support the propositions that came from the official Opposition. 
This is obviously the type of answer for which we have been looking. In other words, this lays down a general system. It designates quite clearly those categories in which there shall be a specification by statute of the salaries of statutory officers. It indicates the difficulties and also those things which can be a matter of prescription rather than legislation. I think that the will of the Senate has been acknowledged. That our concern has been reflected in the action of the Government is extremely commendable. 1 do thank the Minister for it. We hope that this will now put the matter on a proper basis and will obviate those irritating and continuous difficulties that used to arise as statute after statute came up. I have not had an opportunity to examine the statement in detail but it does appear to conform in general terms with the wishes of the Democratic Labor Party. We do welcome this new procedure which is now being adopted by the Government. 
-I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence by referring to the motion carried in this chamber last week expressing the gratitude of the Senate to the members of the armed Services of Australia who served in Vietnam. I also refer to the fact that later an identical motion was carried in the House of Representatives adopting that resolution. Will the Minister be good enough to ask the Minister for Defence whether the terms of both those resolutions will, in the proper and appropriate manner, be promulgated through him and through the Service Ministers to the armed forces of Australia? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Government is in agreement with the proposal that Australian servicemen be advised of the resolutions adopted by the 2 Houses of the Parliament. The Minister for Defence has already discussed the matter with his colleagues, the Service Ministers, asking them to convey the contents of the resolutions to the forces. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party similarly supports the Export Incentive Grants Bill and gives it its blessing. Of course the necessity for the passage of this Bill has been occasioned by the transfer of the payroll tax to the States. Therefore the Commonwealth has been deprived of providing through that means as incentives to our manufacturers, fabricators and processors of goods for export, opportunities which have been given by the ameliorative section of the Payroll Tax Assessment Act. The fact that it is necessary to continue this legislation highlights how vitally important it is that we attempt all the time to stimulate our export industries in a field oher than primary industries. We are witnessing quite a transformation in the pattern of Australian export trade. Already, we see a decline in some of our traditional areas of export income earners and a reliance upon other export income earners such as minerals. Already there is likely to be some diminution in that field. 
Actually our balance of trade position stands very high. In no large measure this is due to large capital inflow. This is something which has been affected by the vacillation in the international monetary system although, for some reason, it seems to have attracted a rather rapid inflow of capital in more recent weeks. But a pattern is developing which may require us more and more to rely for our export earnings upon the stimulation of our secondary industries and the creation of a heavy export area of manufactured goods. In those circumstances the retention of an incentive such as this is important and it could be of increasing importance as the years go by. As has been said this is quite a complex Bill yet. fundamentally, its principles are rather simple. By a notional system it provides by way of bounty those benefits which would have been given by a remission of payroll lax averaged over 3 of the 8 years immediately preceding the year in question. If there is a notional excess that can be carried on to the subsequent year as a credit in that year. 
The proposition is a good one. It is valuable. I agree with  Senator Wilkinson  that it may in the future project very heavy demands on Commonwealth revenue. These demands will have to be met if this pattern of trade, as I have indicated, develops more and more and our reliance upon export earnings from secondary industry manufactures becomes more essential and more important to Australia. That position will have to be looked at immediately in the year following 1972-73 which was to be the date of the expiry of the payroll taxation remission system and which will be the date of the expiry of the present provision. In these circumstances we welcome the Bill while we point out the deep and far ranging implications for Australian trade and how, ultimately, this position will have to be looked at and examined in a very much wider context. The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
-. The motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  raises very important considerations in relation to. these new emanations in the community, the public corporations. These have caused some concern, because they are a development which brings a very great deal of elasticity. The Community allows them a large measure of public ownership yet preserves the aspect of commercial competition. Nevertheless the development does raise concern as to what extent the corporation should be accountable in the parliamentary sense and to what extent the Parliament should exercise a scrutiny over its operations. I remember some years ago asking a question in this chamber about a particular transaction by the Commonwealth Bank, as it then was, and I was told that the day to day operations of the bank were not subject to parliamenatary question or scrutiny as they involved a banker-client relationship. To that extent therefore there was virtually an exculpation of the bank from any criticism in regard to the transaction I mentioned. Certainly there was no investigation. 
Probably the leading authority on the public corporation and the question of parliamentary accountability is Lord Morrison, the former  Mr Herbert  Morrison, a Minister in Labour governments in England headed by Atlee and other Labour leaders. I think he is* now Lord Morrison of Lambeth, and he is still alive. He is not only a practising and pragmatic parliamentarian; be also is a parliamentary intellectual and a parliamentary theoretician who gave a great deal of bis time to studying this question. 
 Senator McManus,  being an intellectual, would find himself very much ad idem in following the line of reasoning adopted by Lord Morrison. As a parliamentary intellectual and theoretician Lord Morrison wrote books on the subject. I will take this opportunity to cite a few excerpts from his work 'Government and Parliament', the first edition of which was in 1959 or 1960 and dealt with the position of the public corporation and its accountability. These excerpts might give an idea of the alternatives proposed as a  solution to this very difficult and very delicate question of finding a reconciliation between the independence of operation of a public corporation and the right of Parliament to scrutinise its activities. Lord Morrison makes one or two suggestions. I will truncate his propositions and read excerpts which generally might give his line of thought. He said:  lt is clear from what I have written that I would not wish a Board  of a  public corporation to become either officially or unofficially the creature of the Minister and the Department concerned with it. . . . Where a Minister has prima facie grounds for believing that .something is wrong, either in the service to the public or, maybe, in the number of supervisory administrative and technical staff, then, provided he docs it in the right spirit,  1  think he has the right and the duty to require the relevant information lo be produced, lo examine the Board about the facts, and to ask for satisfaction on the matters which are giving him concern ... a Minister ought not to drift into a position whereby he becomes an automatic apologist for the Boards in Parliament, and there is certainly no obligation upon him lo defend things which  be  is not convinced ate right, lt would not be right for Departments to reg:ird the public corporations as so distant and autonomous as not to act as I have suggested, or thai there should be a bias towards leaving the Boards isolated to the greatest practicable extent. The Boards must be allowed time to settle down bill the period should nol be excessive. . . . There is one danger which must clearly he avoided: the danger of a large-scale duplication in the Ministries of the supervisory, technical and administrative staffs of the public corporations. 
Lord Morrison then suggests this: 
What the 'parent" Ministry needs is a quite small, brainy, constructive branch which studies the. work of the Boards, examines their statistics, takes note of parliamentary, press, and public criticisms, and so on ... it is for the Minister and the Chairmen to see that good relations are maintained, for everybody should be intent on furthering the public interest. The branch should bring problems In the notice of the Minister from time to lime together with the observations of the Board and their own comments, lt would not be for the branch to assume that they could give the full and authentic answers; nor should they attempt to 'boss1 the Boards: their big job would be to help the Minister to put the relevant questions intelligently. . . . 
Parliament and the public wish  to  be satisfied that these industries- 
He was speaking of the nationalised industries which are nationalised in the format of public corporations - are  efficiently and economically managed.  To  some extent a judgment  can be  given  on the  basis of the Annual Reports  and Accounts but these are  not conclusive.  It is not within the duties of the  chartered  accountants who audit the accounts  to comment upon the efficiency and economy of the management: their business is to verify the accuracy of the accounts and to draw attention to any inaccuracies or imperfections in methods of account keeping and presentation. 
It was very necessary that the Boards, no less than the government, should realise that Parliament and the public could reasonably ask to be satisfied that everything possible was being dona to ensure the general efficiency of these great economic undertakings. 
Then Lord Morrison put forward this proposition: 
I had another idea which we also put forward for consideration, namely, that the Boards themselves collectively might create an industrial efficiency unit of r heir own. which would he available to any of the Boards for the investigation of headaches'. Each Board, of course, has within iti organisation some means of investigating results or difficulties which give it concern. 
He went on to say that that proposition was one which unfortunately was not accepted. He then dealt with the question of the on-going necessity of select parliamentary committees to have the nationalised industries, the public corporations, constantly under their survey. He said: 
The object of the Committee should be that of informing Parliament about the aims, activities and problems of the Corporations and nol of controlling their work. 
He all the time finds this dichotomy, as we do, between the character of these bodies as independent functioning corporations, very often in commercial competition, and the right and responsibility and duty of Parliament to have some care and consideration for their activities and to scrutinise their general programme, their general concept and general activities. Finally. Lord Morrison came to these conclusions: 
In any case the extreme advocate of parliamentary accountability really must face up to the essential issues involved. If he warns the Minister to be answerable in Parliament for every detail, if he desires the public corporations to be run as if they were departmental^ managed undertakings, if he wishes Select Committees of Parliament to exercise functions of investigation and crossexamination of witnesses as if the concerns were run by, a Ministry, then he must logically advocate that the socialised undertakings should be managed by a Government Department and not by a public corporation. What he is not entitled to do is to say: 'Well, let the business be vested in and managed by a public corporation, and let us hold the members of the Board responsible for efficient management, but let the public corporation be treated as if it were a Government Department.' This is not a fair proposition. It would not be fair to the eminent men who undertake the responsibility of management as members  of the Board, nor would it be fair to the Minister, who in these circumstances could not reasonably be expected to answer for every detail of management. The fact has to be faced that if we decide for the public corporation then certain limitations on parliamentary accountability must inevitably follow. If we establish the public corporalion, it must be for certain reasons. What are they,? They are that we seek to combine the principle of public ownership, of a broad but not loo detailed public accountability, of a consciousness on the part of the undertaking that it is working for the nation and not for sectional interests, with the liveliness, initiative, and a considerable degree of freedom of a quick-moving and progressive business enterprise. Either that is the case for the public corporation, or there is no case at all. It is perfectly legitimate (indeed, it  is the great art  of public administration) to seek the best of both worlds, but what is not fair when one has made a deliberate departure from part of one world is to expect that all the  characteristics  of that world will survive. Therefore, the decision should be made after foreseeing and accepting the consequences; and one of the consequences of plumping for the public corporation is that the carefully chosen members of the Board should have the right of independent action in the field of daytoday management, for which they should feel a sense of social responsibility, but for which they cannot in detail well be held responsible to Parliament. We are imposing upon these men, even thrusting down their throats, as I said in Socialisation and Transport, responsibility for commercial success or otherwise. It is desirable that we should do so, for otherwise there is no point in constituting these Boards. 
If they are to have a sense of responsibility, if they are to be saddled with the responsibility, then we must give them a reasonable and frankly recognised sphere of managerial freedom. Otherwise we should run a crave risk of irresponsibility - nobody being responsible for anything. Those who want detailed parliamentary accountability must plump for Slate departmental management; those who favour a publicly owned industry being vested in a public corporation must be prepared to face the consequences, namely, some limitation on detailed parliamentary accountability. 
The work goes on in other sections. That extract highlights this very great dichotomy between the independent character of the public corporation and the right of Parliament to scrutinise such an organisation created by parliamentary statute, originally funded by the Parliament from the public account and whose policies must be and continue to be of concern to the Parliament and to the parliamentary representatives. There is a great deal to be said at this developing stage of the public corporation in Australia for some investigation as to the area of parliamentary scrutiny that should be applied to such corporations. There is some merit in some sort of investigation into this matter, not unduly to circumscribe the activities of corporations, not to penetrate their day-to-day decisions, not to sit in some departmental, autocratic manner looking over their shoulder and peering at their every movement but, nevertheless, in the broad sense to see that they are operating in terms of their charter from the point of view of policy, that they are operating as public corporations in an impartial and objective sense; and that in no sense have they been penetrated unduly in the area in which the discussion is taking place by bias or a lack of objectivity in presentation or in administration. These things may be easily said. How one lays down the norms, how one defines the parameters for such a type of operation can be discovered perhaps only by a suitable type of investigation. 
1 do not understate or underrate the difficulties of this explicit definition, and I would agree with he Attorney-General in that. Nevertheless, as it is impossible to lay down with great explicitness the perimeters of action against which no trespass can take place, to that extent it may be left ultimately for Parliament to scrutinise whether, in a proper interpretation of the charter as presented, there has been a manifest and objective departure. I submit that Parliament is the only body that could be entrusted with this power. I think Parliament should be entrusted with that power, otherwise we would have a public corporation that was subject to no censures, subject to no restrictions, subject to no circumscription. Who else but Parliament or a committee of the Parliament could possibly bring back to its original charter, in even the most liberal interpretation, the functioning of a corporation that pragmatically had departed from it over a period of years. 
We know that in life whatever may be our original intention there is always a diffusion of effort and a diffusion of purpose as day follows day, until ultimately the original purpose is lost sight of, the original intent becomes obscured and the original design becomes completely lost sight of. Only Parliament, looking at this thing objectively and perhaps looking afresh at the charter which is handed down  to  some such corporation, can bring ft back to its initial purpose and bring it back to the original line. I think that Parliament should be scrupulous in trying nol necessarily to divest itself of power, because it probably already has that power, but to bring that power into operation and to indicate to this proliferation of public corporations - quite a number have been created in this country in more recent years in addition to those that have been operating for some years - that Parliament will, have the on-going scrutiny of their operations, of their purpose and of their practice. For that reason I think the motion has a great deal to commend it, and we support it. 
I rise to speak to the question of the activity or inactivity of the Government in relation to environmental control. My reason for raising this matter is that 2 committees of this chamber have taken extensive evidence and presented their reports - one on air pollution and one on water pollution. When the second report was presented, on the motion that the report be adopted an amendment was moved and carried unanimously by the Senate. That amendment was that the report should be referred to the Government for urgent attention. Therefore, in view of the resolution of and the interest manifested by the Senate, it is important that honourable senators should know what action, if any, has been taken bv the Government, not only on the general question but also in the light of the resolution carried by the Senate. The Senate has been very deeply concerned about the protection of the environment, has created 2 committees and has commended proposals in relation to one aspect for urgent attention. 
During the discussions in the Estimates Committee on this matter I drew attention rather briefly to what has been the activity in the States and said that it was tremendously important that the Commonwealth should move coincidentally wilh the States because the report on water pollution at least contemplated that there should be, so far as possible, uniformity of approach to this problem by the Commonwealth and the States. We members of the Select Committee on Water Pollution visualised great commercial difficulties that could arise if a formula which was laid down in one State were not applicable in another State in similar or identical terms, where for commercially competitive purposes enterprises might elect to move to a State in which the disciplines were less rigid than they were in another State. Undesirable practices of that type could arise and there could actually be a bargaining between authorities to have disciplines that were more lax so that they would be able to attract enterprises which were not prepared to operate under the more severe disciplines of other areas. 
The States have moved extensively in this field. Perhaps it is not without point that I should indicate to the Committee of the Whole, rather than to the Estimates Committee, what has been done in the various States. 1 have had a dissection taken out as at October 1971. lt shows that last year in New South Wales 3 Acts were passed to increase the effectiveness of existing State legislation. They were the State Pollution Control Commission Act. the Waste Disposal Act and the Clean Waters Act. In addition there was an amendment to the Motor Traffic Act in relation to pollution arising from the operation of motor vehicles. The bodies which were created, re-created or strengthened under those Acts were the State Pollution Control Commission and the Metropolitan Waste Disposal Authority, and an environment improvement committee was to be set up. In Victoria also there was quite intense activity. Victoria has been conscious of the need for environmental projection, which was evident from the many Acts in that State dealing with this question. My recollection is that there was such a variety of legislation and authorities with jurisdiction in one area or another of environmental interference, and therefore of control, that it was very difficult for Victoria to operate successfully. However, the position in that State now is that the Environment. Protection Act provides for the Environment Protection Authority, the Environment Protection Council and the Environment Protection Appeal Board. 
The main part of that Act, which is a recent Act, has not been proclaimed. That is the provision regarding the enforcement of the Act, licensing, delegation of duties, etc. The operative sections of the Act are the establishment of the Authority, the establishment of the Council and certain policy making provisions. The bodies that are created are the Environment Protection Authority and the Environment Protection Council and, at the University of Melbourne, environmental research sponsored by the Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works, the Australian Universities Commission and a consortium of Commonwealth and State governments has been embarked upon. I understand that last year an Act called the Environment Protection Act was introduced and that the Victorian Minister for Public Works,  Mr Byrne  - a man, obviously by his name, of intense and dynamic energy and interest - proposes to introduce 9 anti-pollution Bills in the spring session of the Victorian Parliament. 
In the State of Queensland we find that the Sta e authorities have been most alert to this question of water pollution. The State Government has an intensive, highly skilled and highly sophisticated unit under a very distinguished Queensland scientist who has done enormous work in this field.' What Queensland has done is to set up an Environment Control Council and 2 technical advisory committees relating to noise and solid waste disposal. An interdepartmental committee has been set up by Cabinet to look into the problems of sand mining and 'o prepare a report to Cabinet on that subject. An interdepartmental committee is investigating control measures along the Queensland coastline with a view to implementation. A clean water council is to be set up. The Queensland Acts, which are somewhat old now but have operated for some time, are the Clean Air Act 1963, the Clean Air Regulations 1968, the State Development and Public Works Organisation Act Amendment Act 1970 in which provision was made for the establishment of the Environment Control Council, the Litter Act 1971 and proposed legislation on the pollution of waters and the Pollution of Waters by Oil Act. 
In South Australia, the Premiers Department, at the date of the compilation of this information, was awaiting a report from the Committee on Environment. That was the position as of June 1971. The departments there entrusted to take action are the Department of Marine and Harbours and the Department of Fisheries. The Engineering and Water Supply Department is continually engaged in water pollution activites. There is a Clean Air Committee of the Department of Health. However, no recent legislation has been introduced in South Australia nor apparently is further legislation contemplated. The la:est legislation was introduced in 1969. 
In Western Australia, at the time of the preparation of this information a report from the Department of Environment Protection was anticipated. The Physical Environment Protection Act 1970 proposed to set up a Department of Environment Protection which was to be constituted by a Bill to be introduced in 1971 which would constitute also the Environment Protection Council and the Environment Protection Authority. Therefore, that State is alert and anxious to move in this field. In the State of Tasmania pollution controls exist, as the Senate standing committees found out. The Environment Control Section has been recently established under the portfolio of the Department controlled by the Chief Secretary and a Director of Environment Control is to be appointed. An Environment Control Bill has been prepared to deal with all the main types of pollution. This Bill is similar to the Victorian Environment Protection Act, to which I have made reference, and the licensing of scheduled premises, similar to the. .provisions of the New South Wales Clean Air Act, is being considered. 
That information indicates a very high level of activity and interest among the States. But obviously the States must be circumscribed by the constitutional limitations of their power. The Senate Select Committee found for example that there were water bodies - that is, rivers - that flow from State to State and that although a State can control the element of pollution within its own confines, when a water body travels interstate that States jurisdiction is limited and denied. Unless there is a close area of co ordination and cooperation many measures taken by a State U'" be ineffective. On the other hand a State may not be conscious of the need for control of water bodies and allows a stream to be polluted. That river flows into another State and then a great deal of damage is done to the State next door which might be taking quite intensive and extensive measures in order to control pollution. 
It was in those circumstances, as you know,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  because you were the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, that our Committee had the opportunity to recommend alternatives. It could have recommended the use of constitutional power to give ihe Commonwealth an overall disciplinary control of water pollution that would go, perhaps, to pollution of the environment generally. It was thought that by co-ordination and by calling upon all the available powers or fragments of power under many of the place ta of the Constitution, this would be effected. However, this Committee thought that it was much preferable that we should move in the realm of co-operative federalism coordinated with the States which are the administrative bodies and ultimately have the responsibility. 
Therefore, the role of the Commonwealth apart from the role within its own Territories should be one of coordination, stimulation and perhaps the provision of finance. That is why the whole intent and purpose of the recommendations of at '.east one committee was that the Commonwealth should move actively and should move early so that these activities of the States should not emerge unco-ordinated and undisciplined but in conjunction with the co-ordinating authority - and the Commonwealth was the only authority really available to do it - might move in unison so that wc get a common code and a common approach to this question, and those undesirable practices which we visualise and hope would he avoided would in fact be avoided. 
I am anxious that the Minister may seize the opportunity, because I know that statements have been made as to the activity of the Commonwealth in this field, to acquaint the Senate of what the Commonwealth has done and is doing in this field, how far, therefore, the reports of these Committees have been taken into consideration by the Government and how the resolution of the Senate that a tremendous urgency exists on this whole matter has been received in governmental quarters. 1 do not propose to take the matter beyond that, apart from showing that there is tremendous State activity and it would be a shame if the opportunity were lost by the delay, inattention or disinterest of the Commonwealth Government to co-ordinate all these available activities so that we might get what we call a national approach to the whole question of interference with the environment. This problem oan be handled only on a national scale. This is the time to do it. 1 am anxious that the Minister be good enough to tell us to what extent the Commonwealth has identified itself with these activities, what its contribution has been and to what extent it has attempted to co-ordinate all these State activities. 
 Earlier, a whole series of motions was circulated purporting to stem from the Estimates. The first motion moved was in relation to the environment. Obviously it stems directly and logically from the consideration of the Estimates by Estimates Committee B, as it states 'The Committee is of the opinion that the report of Estimates Committee B relating to slow progress', and so on. For that reason the Democratic Labor Party considered the motion on its merits and decided to support it. The other motions in the host that have been circulated in this form donot appear to us to be at all appropriate to the modes and procedures which have been followed in relation to the Estimates committees. All these motions are of substance and of great moment, opening up vast topics. We do not think that as these motions have come forward in this form at this time, purporting to stem from the Estimates committees but not stemming directly or logically from  them, the Senate is in a position to give them the consideration and investigation in depth that matters of such substance require. Let me read some of the motions. 
No, but they were circulated. 
 We have copies of them. 
 No, they were left on my table. They were circulated and subsequently collected from around the chamber. What that means, I do not know. 
 They are withdrawn technically until they are circulated. May I,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  ask  Senator Willesee  whether he proposes to move these motions or whether they have been abandoned? 
I am asking whether it is proposed to move all the other motions. 
1 am asking because 1 am discussing this one. in the context of all the subsequent motions. Is this one of a host of motions all of which were circulated as .being intended to be moved and subsequently collected from around the chamber? I have received no intimation that they have been actually abandoned. I lake it that it is proposed to move them and to circulate them in immediate anticipation of a particular motion being moved. I will therefore proceed with my contribution to this discussion on the basis that it is intended to move all these motions in turn. 
 That may be so. If  Senator Willesee  now cares to disavow them and to say that he docs not intend to proceed with them i will not continue the speech I am about to make, but in the absence of an assurance from  Senator Willesee  I take it that the motions already circulated and withdrawn will be re-presented and moved at the appropriate time. On that basis 1 draw the attention of the Senate to the type of thinking behind the motions. For example, I refer to the motion to be moved in relation to the Department of Civil Aviation, lt provides That there be set up an independent permanent air accident investigation board separate from the Department of Civil Aviation- ' 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party does not oppose the Bill and gives its support to the proposal. 
 There is some mystique about the phrase 'mendicant State'. It was coined many years ago in Queensland and it has become rather a millstone, in a sense, to Queensland. In the considered judgment of the economic and financial experts it was decided that Queensland should become a claimant State before the Commonwealth Grants Commission. As I understand it, that would be of very considerable financial assistance to Queensland and perhaps it could be canvassed to the advantage of that State. Because a State elects to become a claimant State under the Commonwealth Grants Commission, that does not make it, in any true sense of the term, a mendicant State. That is purely an emotive terms. I am not defending the attitude of the Queensland Government on these things. Naturally, I disagree with it politically. The matter has been considered and the action is taken, perhaps with some reluctance, because a State likes to think that in this period of its development it is in a position to sustain economic and financial viability, irrespective of Commonwealth support. Nevertheless, it has been decided in the best judgment of the economic advisers that Queensland should become a claimant State. I have no reason to believe that this will not be in the best interests of Queensland. Therefore, let us not be distracted from what is right and proper in the best interests of this State by the use of the emotive term 'mendicant'. 
I know that, like myself,  Senator Milliner  may well speak from a sense of State pride. I do not hold that against him. But I do not think it is right to describe the situation of a State that elects to become a claimant State as that of mendicancy. Queensland is a State that, in general terms, has a somewhat lower taxable capacity by virtue of the nature of the level of its industrialisation and primary industry, and the nature. of the State. It has particular financial problems which it has been considered can best be resolved to the advantage of the State in this way. Therefore, I repel the suggestions that the action taken in Queensland will denigrate in some sense the State and limit its sovereignty, although it may limit in some sense its economic and financial independence by virtue of the fact that there will be some Commonwealth scrutiny of its financial and economic activities, but in no sense can I see that this will be other than for the benefit of Queensland. The move has been made after long analysis and I trust that the judgment of the Government of Queensland is right and proper, and that this will be in the best interests of Queensland. 
I know that  Senator Milliner  and I, regardless of how we may differ on the method, both have at heart the best interests for the advancement of the State. While  Senator Milliner  sees in this move something that detracts from the sovereignty of Queensland, I see something that in a fuller measure and in time will give that sovereignty a wider and deeper meaning and significance, and greater reality. In those circumstances, we wait to see the results, perhaps with some concern but nevertheless not without hope, that this decision of the Queensland Government will operate to the advantage of Queensland and that the additional Commonwealth assistance that will be forthcoming will stimulate its industries and allow it to continue to develop as one of the greatest States in the Commonwealth. 
 Some regret is associated with the presentation and discussion of this Bill. It arises, as I understand the position, in circumstances in which the Senate some time ago after a series of debates in relation to one cause or another decided that certain officers whose salaries had formerly been fixed by regulation or in some other way should be fixed by statute. The proposition was put to the Senate that the fixing of salaries by regulation should continue until  a  certain date and that after that date such salaries should be fixed by statute. Apparently that date has arrived and the time has come when the legislature must move to fix the salaries in terms of the resolution of the Senate. Hence the Bill is before the Senate. 
However, the Bill does 2 things. Firstly it purports now to regulate those salaries by statute where formerly they were determined by regulation. Secondly, it purports to fix those salaries at a higher rate. I presume that the point to which  Senator 
Willesee has directed attention is not so much the method of fixation as the rate at which the salaries should be determined. It is to that point that I wish to direct my remarks. 
The Democratic Labor Party was a party to the proposition that the salaries should be fixed by statute; that they should be fixed by regulation until a certain time and t hereafter by statute. Therefore the principle of this Bill is supported by the Democratic Labor Party. The level of the salary fixation is a matter of considerable concern. The people involved are statutory officers. Their salaries are necessarily high because their offices arc of great moment and responsibility. As  Senator Willesee  has indicated, the schedules show that their salaries are high. 
Yesterday apparently there was a declaration of Government policy that in the prevailing economic conditions an indication should be given to the nation for restraint to be exercised as to the level at which salaries shall be fixed in order to assist to stem the process of inflation, lt is rather untimely perhaps that we are required to consider this particular Bill so soon after that decision was made, because it involves the position of honourable members of both Houses of this Parliament. 
The DLP feels that, following that intimation of the Government's attitude and because that intimation was an indication to the nation that an element of restraint should be exercised by those who have the opportunity to fix and determine salaries, the same principle should be applied, as far as lies within the competency of the Commonwealth, in areas of its own adminis' rat ion and its own ability to control and regulate. This Bill comes before the Senate against that background. For that reason, because that is the disposition of the Government which has been accepted for the benefit of the nation, we believe it would be a logical contradiction if, immediately after that disposition had been shown, the Parliament should pass a Bill which would disregard the principle espoused. 
I admit that obviously the inference can be drawn that in some spirit of vindictiveness or reprisal action is being taken in relation to this Bill. I assure honourable senators, as I assure the Parliament and the nation, that insofar as the attitude of the DLP is concerned nothing is further from our thoughts. It is very much in our wishes that the salaries appropriate to these very distinguished public officials should have been proceeded with unimpeded according to justice and relative to other determinations which have been made by arbitral tribunals and bodies that have the power to fix wages. However, we must face the realities of the situation. We must accept the logic, the inevitable and somewhat tragic logic, of the attitude at this time. It would be a departure from a principle so recently espoused if today we were to permit without intervention the fixation of these salaries at the higher rate while totally disregarding what is obviously the Government's disposition. 1 appreciate that in these circumstances the Parliament could be open to a charge of vindictiveness or reprisal. Certainly nothing is farther from the thoughts of the DLP. Whatever action we take in this matter is taken with the greatest regret, but the Parliament would involve itself in an exhibition of contradiction and inconsistency if it did not similarly apply within the area of constitutional ability the administrative responsibility available to it and if it did not apply the principle espoused within the last 24 hours in another area of its constitutional and administrative responsibility. 
For those reasons we feel that there is no alternative in the logic of the situation but to do what some senators are now disposed to do. lt has been suggested that if this Bill were rejected a vacuum would be disclosed in which no provision whatsoever would be made for those very distinguished public servants who are the subject of this Bill. That would be true. The alternative, therefore, is to provide by legislation for the fixation of their salaries at the existing level, or to use a term which has been applied, to institute a wage freeze in this area as in other areas. 
If these good people are asked to make this sacrifice, and it will be a very substantial sacrifice - I do not discuss here the quantum of their present salaries or the quantum of the suggested and perhaps now abandoned increase - we can only hope that whatever sacrifice they are required by statute to make will nol be lost sight of by the nation and that any restraint imposed upon them will be accepted by them, even though reluctantly, with good grace. If this restraint is imposed it is hoped that it will inspire similar restraints. Otherwise the whole purpose of the exercise would be lost and the exercise of yesterday and of today would go for nothing. 
We would hope that by virtue of this demonstration of attitude the Australian economy might very quickly be restored to a position where there could be a restoration of wage and salary equity which, for the moment, apparently is being laid aside in what are considered to be the higher interests of national economic and financial stability. That is our hope. It is something to which all honourable senators should dedicate their minds and to which the Government particularly should dedicate its mind so that the economy can very quickly be restored to a position where there can be a restoration of salar)' and wage equity at the earliest possible moment. 
It is very difficult to ask any section of the community to accept the sacrifice which is now being imposed on the people who are affected by this Bill, or other people who were asked similarly to make sacrifices so very recently. It is very hard to do. It would be a tragedy if, they having been required to make this sacrifice, it went for nothing. If this is to be an inspiration to the nation then let it be accepted in that way. Let the lesson be spelt out in all of those areas from one end of Australia to the other, from one level of income to the other, from one type of industry and employment to the other, so that the sacrifice of these people will not have gone unheeded and without value. 
Debate interrupted. 
This is a sad occasion. It must be considered a sad occasion that in a time of rising prices, in a time of raging inflation, the just additions to salaries and the reclassifications of salaries for wider reasons may have to be denied. Nobody can be happy about the situation, including not only those immediately affected but also those who have the unfortunate responsibility of doing this. Those of us who remember can take our minds back to the depression of 1932 when wages and incomes were cut across the board by 22i per cent under the Premiers Plan. That is a period of Australia's life that all of us try to forget and yet we must all be required to remember. This situation brings back ominous recollections of that period. 
In supporting the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition we do hope, and we hope sincerely, that this tragic situation will be quickly rectified and that these men who are required to make this sacrifice - men who assume tremendous responsibilities, whose salaries, I trust in the estimation of those who have the responsibility of determining them, are not unrelated to comparable salaries in the Public Service and outside it, of men performing similar tasks of heavy responsibility - will have restored to them very quickly wage and salary equity. Personally I have the very highest regard for men holding office in public corporations and men holding positions of high distinction in the Public Service - men who are dedicated to their tasks and who bring a tremendous amount of knowledge and personal sacrifice to the work of the nation. Nobody likes to be a party to this action, but if this has to be done it has to be done. I do hope that the people of Australia will respond to what is now being done here and will respond to the sacrifice these people are being asked to make and the sacrifice which others have been asked to make within the last 24 hours. If that response is adequate and if it is immediate then we may restore very quickly a position in which once again we can hand out to people their just salary and wage entitlements without having the corresponding detrimental effect of striking at the very heart of the economic stability of the nation. 
With those comments on this rather unfortunate situation, the Democratic Labor Party says with a great measure of reluctance, but in pursuance of a principle of restraint which has been espoused by the Government, which has been accepted by members of this Parliament as being consonant with the demands of national financial and economic stability, that it supports the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Willesee  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. However, we trust that the necessity for this action will not be of long duration and that very quickly what these men are entitled to in terms of work value will quickly and fully be restored to them. 
I ask for leave to move in an amended form notice of motion No. 13 standing in my name on the general business sheet. 
I recall, as the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  recounts it, the circumstances in which this matter was mentioned and reviewed once before. On that occasion the Australian Democratic Labor Party did indicate that it thought a shorter period would be more appropriate. The Bill now contemplates a shorter period, but a balance must be found, and the Minister has intimated that there are certain administrative requirements and that if an unduly short period was introduced in lieu of the 3-year period we could easily get a position where we would have to exercise the disciplines of the statute all the time, whereas with the longer period it is possible to get an accommodation to handle the position by administrative action to the satisfaction of all concerned. I take it that that is the position. I think to import into this Act a rigidity that would perhaps defeat the very ends which it was intended to serve mightbe undesirable. As the Minister has seen fit to reduce the period to 3 years, and as we think the case he puts up for setting his face against any reduced period, such as that suggested by  Senator Drury  in the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition is acceptable, we think that the Bill should be supported in its present form and the amendment should be resisted, and we will vote accordingly. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator Drury's)  be agreed to. 
It also shows the tremendous value of parliamentary committees, docs it not? 
The report identifies substantial trade, aid, political and defence interests in the Indian Ocean. It recommends certain initiatives on our part to protect these interests. I must say at the outset that many recommendations by the Committee are already under study by the Government or are in the process of being implemented. Indeed, the Government would be failing in its responsibility if il had not been conscious of the many political and economic influences in the area and the possible political implications of the increasing pressure of the Russians in the Indian Ocean. But while we must be conscious of our need for growing interest in developments, we must not be unreal in our approach to these matters.  Senator Wheeldon  said that we must forget gunboat diplomacy and a few fishing boats in our waters-- 
The Joint Committee has members from all political parties. 
It is perhaps not inappropriate that I should pay my tribute to the late  Senator Courtice  because after I entered this chamber in 1951 he was for many years my closest personal friend and parliamentary colleague and in those years I had the opportunity of estimating the worth of his character and of enjoying the warmth of his friendship. Over the years, by the sad concourse of circumstances, our political paths may have diverged but our personal paths never diverted. 1 kept in contact" with him during the years of his retirement.  Senator Courtice  was imbued with very 'firm principles and great idealism. He often told me of the experience of his own father in the darker days when unemployment was considered to be a personal disgrace rather than a community failure. He set himself out to achieve a situation in which every man would have not only the right to work but also the. opportunity to exercise that right, and he carried those ideals through a long career in community and public life. 
The late  Senator Courtice  was, from memory, a foundation member of the Queensland Cane Growers Association. To him was due a great deal of the credit for the importance of the industry which rested so much for its success upon the worth of that organisation. He was a gentle man yet a man of strong and firm character. He made a great contribution to public life in Australia. He embellished a family record that was already one of great' worth, for the Courtice family has produced in its time very many distinguished men. lt has produced one Rhodes scholar, a very distinguished scientist and men' of commerce.  Senator Courtice,  in his time and his way, added lustre to the record of that family. I had the deep and abiding pleasure of enjoying the friendship of not only the late  Senator Courtice  but also his wife and family. I pass on to those of his family who survive him my very warm regards, and my deep personal sympathy at a loss which is deep for them but only slightly less deep for his friends, who recall him with admiration and respect. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
I know that it is a cliche in a debate such as this to quote Dorothea Mackellar; but I think it is appropriate, for a more significant reason than that it is a rather apt quotation to describe Australia as a land of sapphire misted mountains, of drought and flooding rains. That confirms the point that was made by  Senator Murphy  and acknowledged by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, namely, that droughts, floods and other disasters are endemic in this country. 
One of the basic fallacies in our attitude to the whole question of the relief of natural disasters is that we refuse persistently and consistently to accept this as a fact of life in this country. Droughts, floods and bushfires are as much built, into the cycle of Australian life as are many other things. Until we recognise them as a permanent feature of our life and recognise that they should be met by permanent remedies - instead of always referring to disasters as if they spring suddenly and unexpectedly out of situations, as if they are never likely to occur and as if they occur only by some amazing chance, which seems to be our mental approach to this problem - we are never likely to find it necessary to devise a formula to handle them. Perhaps the most important consideration in Australia is that we must develop a new national mental altitude to these questions. We must accept these disasters as part of Australian life and we must move to accommodate them, to provide against them and to alleviate the consequences of them, both in a national community sense and in an individual sense. 
National disasters, of course, are not to be classified purely as those few things to which I have referred in making some denotation of the term. For example, I first raised this matter some years ago when I was campaigning on the Gold Coast in Queensland where there had been substantial erosion. The erosion of a beach which is the great commercial asset of a tourist area is as much a natural disaster to that area - to the traders who operate in the area, the land holders and the entrepreneurs who expend and commit their money there - as a major drought or a major bushfire is to another area. 
-Yes. Therefore we must widen our concept in all these matters. We must deepen our attitude. We must develop altogether new positions when we consider these matters. Another aspect that has to be rethought is this: We think of the relief of natural disasters only in terms of rectification or the compensation that follows the occurrence of a disaster. I most certainly do not consider that any such approach to matters of this kind is adequate. 
Let me refer to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's proposition that we do not want another bureaucratic authority, as he suggests is implicit in  Senator Murphy's  matter of urgency, to handle this matter. I regard the responsibility of the authorities in relation to disasters in Australia as involving also the necessary measures either to prevent their occurring or to ameliorate their consequences should they occur. Therefore I take it that dealing with erosion of the beaches on, say, the Gold Coast in Queensland is not merely a matter of filling sandbags and doing things like that in an effort to save property threatened by the erosion of the sea when the disaster occurs. 
It is a matter, with technical co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States and with finance from the Commonwealth, of seeing what engineering skills can be employed to avoid the occurrence of such a disaster. In other words, this must not be purely a negative matter. A body such as  Senator Murphy  contemplates would have at its disposal a great body of technical skill which would be available throughout the year and through all the years, would direct its mind and its attention to areas where disasters were likely to strike, and would move to avoid them so far as was humanly and technically possible. 
If an area was prone to bushfires it would receive particular technical or engineering attention in order to prevent a disaster striking there. The provision of groynes would receive attention in the coastal areas. Near the Gold Coast in Queensland the State of New South Wales, in its wisdom, decided to build a bar in the vicinity of the mouth of the Tweed River. That has had a very big and very disastrous effect on the movement of sand to the north and has resulted in a denuding of the sand on the major beaches north of the Tweed River as far as the town of Southport. This is something that can be rectified only by Commonwealth and State co-operation in the preventive sense. When that situation was examined within the secretariat, the national body, in co-operation and co-ordination with the States concerned, would attempt to devise engineering techniques which would satisfy the commercial and tourist demands of the State of New South Wales in the vicinity of the Tweed River while nol prejudicing the contiguous areas in the State of Queensland across the border. In the absence of such co-operation, it would be a matter beyond the constitutional power of any one authority to get co-ordination and co-operation. 
This is a matter in which the Democratic Labor Party has been particularly interested. 1 know that all parties represented in this chamber have, in some way or other, made their contribution and presented their suggestions by way of select committees, standing committees or other committees of investigation. This is probably the first positive motion of this kind that has come forward. I would like to quote - not because I want to make political capital out of it, but as a matter of historical record - what the Democratic Labor Party said in its policy speech in 1969. It was perhaps the first and only party in Australia to put forward a definite proposition on this matter for adoption by the people of Australia at a general election.  Senator Gair,  in the course of his policy speech in 1969, said: 
. we are now positive that only an investigation carried out by a joint parliamentary committee will produce the degree of attention and examination which this problem now warrants. 
I am disturbed at the way in which various emergency situations - requiring both State and Commonwealth liaison and action - have been badly handled in recent years. 
Drought relief is a current example of the confusion and time-wasting which often occurs. 
What Australia needs is a permanent secretariat, consisting of State and Federal officials, ready to anticipate and study natural disasters, evolve contingency plans and act as the co-ordinating body when asked to. 
That was a positive proposition. I am delighted that the proposition referred to in the motion is one that harmonises with a proposition that we have enunciated. I suppose we can assume that if the matter were referred to a parliamantary committee, whether it be a committee of this chamber or a joint parliamentary committee, there is little doubt that such a committee, deliberating, investigating and taking evidence, would recommend the establishment of some kind of a national co-ordinating body. One prime example of what would be likely to emerge from the investigations conducted by such a committee is the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. It investigated a somewhat similar proposition - the natural destruction by substantially human agencies of our water courses, our waterways and our littoral water. That Committee recommeneded that there should be a national body to co-ordinate the activities of the Commonwealth and the States in this field. 1 think that if a committee were appointed to investigate this matter it would come up with a similar proposition. Therefore I see no point in our retracing our steps and again putting the proposition that was put some years ago by the late  Senator Cohen,  which was debated in this chamber, that there should be Senate committees or other committees of inquiry. I think the time has come when we can take as a fact that the solution which would present itself to anybody now investigating this matter would be the creation of a national authority to co-ordinate with the States to handle the problems. 
Recently in Townsville there was a disaster of tremendous financial consequences, of very great community and social consequences and one which brought many personal disasters in its wake. Honourable senators and honourable members from another place visited those areas in their moments of sadness and disaster. I had the sad opportunity of doing that. Anybody who went there must have realised how unprepared, in the general sense, that area was for that disaster and how unprepared any similar area would be if a similar situation were to arise in the future. There were examples where the method of building - that is, the architectural and constructional method of erecting houses and buildings - proved  to  be inadequate in the conditions. Whether that was an actual defect in building construction I do not say, nor am I competent to express an opinion on that. The point is that in areas of that nature particular building techniques might be required and certain standards might have to be laid down. That is the type of thing which must, in the positive sense, be undertaken by a national body which co-ordinates with the State authorities. The matter is noi merely one of alleviating the consequences of a disaster when it has occurred; the matter is one of being equipped in every way to avoid those consequences, to meet them and to mitigate what otherwise might be immense damage. If authorities had given to builders their expert knowledge on the method of construction of buildings in those areas, if authorities had advised builders of the building techniques to be employed in those areas and if those techniques had been enforced by the disciplines of law. undoubtedly there would have been considerable mitigation of the damage suffered by many people.  As  it was, in an area prone to frequent cyclones, but fortunately not regular cyclones, people used the orthodox methods of construction. Then, no doubt because of the high cost of insurance against that type of disaster, many people were uninsured. f am sure that a co-ordinating body such as we contemplate would recommend methods by which people would be encouraged to mitigate against the possible consequences of natural disasters. Is there any reason why in an area that would be declared a disaster area, due to flood or cyclone, insurance premiums paid for protection against the consequences should not be taxation deductions? That is one thing that occurred to me. That is the type of positive thinking which I would like to see emerge from a body such as the one contemplated and from the existence of such a body. If such premiums were taxation deductions immediately the people would co-operate by insuring themselves within their financial capacity. They would receive a taxation rebate for the premiums, the same as life insurance premiums are taxation deductions. The people would be financially structured to mitigate against the financial consequences which, in many cases, are so disastrous. Because the premiums for such insurance were high very many unfortunate people were nol insured. 
 They should be lax deductible in the way life insurance premiums are tax deductible. People would be encouraged, within their reasonable financial capacity, to provide against the financial consequences of a disaster such as this. 
 I would suggest that an area in which there had been a regular occurrence of cyclones - not frequently but regularly - could be declared a cyclone area. That would be a matter of legal definition only. One can insure against storm and tempest. Many people did insure against storm and tempest but did not insure against cyclones. They thought that they were covered, but unfortunately they were not. 
 Yes, thing's of that nature. That is the type of thing that could be studied by a national body, one of whose tasks would be to devote itself to what is now an inbuilt part of Australian life and something which should be provided for, just as social security is provided for as an inbuilt part of Australian living today. Therefore we commend the mo' ion. We would hope that it would receive the support of the Senate and that, if carried, the Commonwealth and the States might co-operate to achieve the intention of the motion. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I refer to your own comment,  Mr President,  that some of these motions are under the control of the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  some are under the control of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and some are under the control of the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair). 
Leader of the Opposition and some are the direct responsibility of the Leader of the party which you represent. Finally, I wish to make it perfectly clear that the postponement or the rearrangement of the business of the Senate can operate only on the basis where there is a comity between the leaders of the parties. 
My point, with respect, is that 1 would imagine that motions standing in the name of an individual senator would be under the control of that individual senator. For example, there is a motion in my name on the notice paper. 1 would be very happy if it were under  Senator Gair's  control or under the control of the Party generally. It is a motion for the disallowance of an ordinance in relation to film classifications in the Australian Capital Territory. That happens to be a personal excursion. Therefore, I think the proper course would be to call on the individual senators in whose names the motions stand and for them to indicate whether they are prepared as individual senators to have their motions postponed and for priority to be given to another motion. 
Dealing with the general question, I refer to an interesting fact.  Senator Murphy's  motion, of which notice has been given, concerns the fixation and the determination of prices in various categories.  Senator Gair's  motion deals with the structure and determination of the prices of automotive fuels and lubricants in Australia. I repeat that  Senator Murphy's  motion refers to the determination of prices which affect the structure of costs and prices in the Australian economy, and so on. In other words, what is contained in  Senator Murphy's  motion embraces, with many other matters, what is contained in  Senator Gair's  motion. Therefore, the question arises as to whether  Senator Gair's  motion should not be entitled to rest on its initial priority and whether, by  Senator Murphy's  motion,  Senator Gair's  motion has not only been laid aside but also has been superseded. It also raises the question of whether, when  Senator Gair  came to move his motion in a few days or a few weeks, it could be held that this matter has already been determined by the Senate. That is a position that could well arise. 
Under the standing orders,  Senator Gair  might be precluded from discussing his motion because it would in essence have been discussed in the discussion of the matter contained in  Senator Murphy's  motion. I am sure that is a matter to which  Senator Murphy  has not particularly adverted. That is the difficulty associated with the supersession of a motion such as is now proposed in the case of the motions of  Senator Gair  and  Senator Murphy.  That is why perhaps more thought should be given to whether this motion should be given the priority which it is now suggested might be accorded to it, the Government being anxious to have this proposal of  Senator Murphy's  debated and disposed of. We should look at this matter. I think that honourable senators should be consulted as to whether they wish any of their motions to be postponed. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) (9.42)  -  by leave - It has always been my understanding that in terms of motions, the order of Government business was the prerogative of the Leader of the Government. If I am wrong, I can be corrected, lt would be disastrous for us to get into a situation built around misunderstandings.  Senator Murphy  moved a motion and therefore it stands in his name. He has indicated to mc across the table that he is perfectly willing to withdraw his motion and let it stand over. 1 understand that  Senator Drake-Brockman  has a statement that he wants to make. Then we will postpone all the motions and I will continue to the next order of business on the general business sheet. If that is the will of the Senate, we can do it that way. But if there is to be any opposition to  Senator Murphy  speaking to his motion, he has indicated that he is perfectly willing to withdraw it tonight. He will take his chance when we deal with general business tomorrow. My understanding - you will correct me if I am wrong,  Mr President  - is that it is the prerogative of the Leader of the Government to move for the arrangement of Government, business. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South Wales - Leader of the Opposition) - by leave - Now that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has opened up what we spoke about, I think it would be convenient for honourable senators if we both mention it. I had spoken to him the other day and we had arrived at what we thought was a reasonable arrangement for the business. He indicated that he was going to speak to  Senator Gair.  I assumed that he had done this. No discourtesy was intended to anyone.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson would not be guilty of discourtesy on any occasion, and I would not be guilty of it where I could avoid it. Certain questions have arisen as to how the business in the Senate is to be disposed of. This is not Government business. It is a business of the Senate and I do not accede to the proposition put in response to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson (hat the Leader of the Government has the disposition of the business of the Senate. That, is business of the Senate and comes on in a certain order unless the Senate determines otherwise. 
This should be the case with one of the individuals if he happened to have a motion on the notice paper. 
Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 2, standing in my name reads: 
That there bc referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs the following matter - The Report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee, dated August 1971. 
In the rather unusual circumstances as they have developed tonight my disposition would be to follow the lead which has been given by  Senator Willesee  in relation to bis notice of motion and ask for postponement of the consideration of this notice of motion standing in my name because apparently there was some general anticipation that this series of motions would not come forward for debate tonight. 
As I say, that was the genera] disposition. It is not improbable that honourable senators are not equipped to debate this motion tonight, unless they happened to anticipate that this would happen and have briefed themselves. Therefore, perhaps it is not appropriate that this motion be debated tonight. Yet 1 am reluctant merely to have it adjourned, because if that is done there will bc a whole series of adjournments and all other notices of motion under 'Business of the Senate' also will stand adjourned. 1 am persuaded to allow this motion to go forward for participation in debate by such honourable senators as feel disposed to do so, and, in any case, to let a vote be taken, because this is a type of motion that does not conclude the matter. It is for the reference to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs of the report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee. It is quite appropriate that that report should go to that 
Committee so that in a particular way honourable senators sitting in committee can scrutinise the report and perhaps bring forward suggestions on the degree of emphasis to be given to certain parts of it and the degree of priority to be afforded to certain of its recommendations. When the report from the Committee comes forward the Senate will be in a position, with adequate notice and fortified by that report, to discuss the matter at length. Therefore to some extent, unless honourable senators wish at this stage to expatiate at length on the contents of this very valuable report, 1 do not see any reason why this motion should be laid aside, I suggest that the Senate should allow this report, by resolution, to go forward to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Then, when the report of that Committee comes forward let us debate that report and the report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee itself, when the opportunity is presented. 
I merely say that this report covers a most important and developing field of law; that is, the field of administrative law. With the proliferation of administrative agencies in the community and with the aggregating and accumulating demands of society that more and more disciplines shall be exercised in the social order, a proliferation of administrative tribunals is inevitable and their operation can have a very big effect on the rights of citizens. The purport of this report is to discover whether the existing traditional common law or royal prerogative processes of appeal from the decisions of administrative tribunals are any longer appropriate in the modern age, whether other procedures should be devised, whether administrative tribunals themselves can any longer give to the citizens in the modern community that protection which once they were able to give, or whether there should not now be made available the services of what is called a public counsel, or what we familiarly call on ombudsman, to represent the rights, demands and entitlements of citizens to the administrative structure. 
The report does. That is a most important field. Whilst the report makes recommendations, the idea of the reference to this Committee of the Senate is that particular members of the Senate - it so happens that this Committee is structured substantially by members of the legal profession - will have the opportunity, in committee, to examine this report and to bring forward to the Senate recommendations as to the order of priorities and the degree of emphasis to be given, in their opinion, to the recommendations of the Administrative Review Committee so that the Senate can discuss their views and the report of the Administrative Review Committee at leisure and in depth and breadth. 
Although the discussion of this matter might be unexpected and might have taken the Senate by surprise and although very few honourable senators may feel themselves equipped to discuss the matter - more particularly the substantive report - with any particularity, I believe that the Senate could well resolve tonight, not in a casual way but in a brief manner, to refer this report to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, and let the Senate look forward to discussing the report when the Standing Committee's report comes forward in due course. For those reasons 1 move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs the following matter - The Report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee, dated August 1.971. 
I commend the motion to honourable senators. I ask them to carry it and to let the report be referred to the Committee. 
During the debate tonight on  Senator Murphy's  motion there was some discussion between  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and other honourable senators in the chamber regarding  Senator Murphy  bringing on his motion and attempting to transpose it above other motions on the business paper. The Australian Democratic Labor Party had occasion to be concerned that that procedure had been embarked upon without notice to its members.  Senator Gair  indicated that he had not been informed. I am reminded that during a casual conversation at dinner tonight - 1 thought it was some time earlier - I asked what would happen. 1 think it was  Senator Young  who mentioned that such and such would happen and that  Senator Murphy's  motion would then be dealt with. It was a conversation like that. It was a somewhat casual remark. However, to the extent to which that was an intimation to me and, therefore, to the Party which was not conveyed by me to  Senator Gair,  in the circumstances to that extent the Party was aware that  Senator Murphy's  motion probably would come forward. 1 think I owe it to the Senate, to  Senator Young  and to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson to indicate that that was within my knowledge. 1 think it should have been communicated at the time during the course of the debate. 
If that is so, I am prepared, so far as it is within my capacity to tender an apology, to do so. I regret that 1 have occasion to do it. lt was within my knowledge. It was such a casual conversation that it did not warrant a serious communication. But I did know that and perhaps had I intimated it at the time such a situation might have been avoided. I now tender any necessary apologies and offer any necessary explanations. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Broadcasting Control Board have any power to prevent the screening of television commercials which are considerably louder in volume than that of the programme being viewed at the time that such commercials are shown. 
Will the Board take steps to control the noise level of such television commercials which disturb the comfort of viewers. 
I move: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that the child's allowance payable in respect of dependent children under 16 years of unemployed persons should, where there are 3 or more children, bs substantially increased; that the payment for a dependent spouse should also be increased; and that a special allowance for student children 16 years and under 21 years should be introduced so as to reduce the inevitable pressure on such children to forsake or interrupt their studies by seeking employment in order to assist the family'. 
I do not think that the presentation of this amendment requires an address to accompany it. The principles governing it have been outlined already in the general debate and were referred to more specifically by  Senator Gair  when he foreshadowed the amendment which I have now moved in addressing himself to the principal motion. The only comment I would make is that unemployment strikes with particular harshness in larger families where the mar.gin between no income and some reasonable income, though inadequate, is slight and the situation becomes very desperate where a number of children are dependent on one breadwinner who becomes unemployed. We know that this type of child's allowance which is attached particularly to the unemployed received the attention of the Government in the last year, but so fast has been the growth of inflation, so rapid has been the deterioration, one feels that, with the accompaniment of inflation and the incidence of unemployment, this one section should not be asked to accept the double burden, lt it; for that reason that we commend this proposition to the Government. We ask that the proposal be implemented at the appropriate time. It should be implemented very rapidly because these people must go on bearing this burden until the value of money is restored and until full employment may be regained. We ask the Government to accept this amendment and we ask this chamber to commend it for implementation by the Administration. We present it to the Senate in the fond hope that it will receive the support of the Government and in the full expectation that it will receive the support of the Opposition. I commend the proposition. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
 I shall  speak  for a few minutes only. I am indebted to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  for giving mc this opportunity. This  is  an important Bill dealing with a matter which has been raised by my Party and  by  me in the Senate in more recent  times. It  deals with the infusion of foreign money, particularly in the field of  hire  purchase companies, and reports  of sums of money  coming from Hong Kong  and other places, in respect of which questions have been asked and general concern expressed. 1 agree with  Senator James  McClelland that in Australia we are building up a financial empire parallel to that of the associated banks but which, unlike the banks, is not subject to any substantial central legislative control. Hire purchase companies have an immunity because of the operation of the Constitution. Whether they operate interstate or intrastate they generally have an immunity now with no substantial discipline or control of their operations. 
In such a system where the hire purchase companies are assuming more and more significant and important functions, the absence of a discipline over them in this field or of their operations through the merchant banks, which are not controlled by the Banking Act, means that the whole of the economic discipline may well be side stepped and avoided. Therefore, it is highly important (hat some consideration be given to trying to bring bodies such as these within the ambit of the appropriate economic disciplines that our modern society must be able and prepared to exercise. It could well be that where there has been a vacuum of constitutional power in the past, such vacuum might now be filled by the decision in the concrete pipes case where the High Court suggested that perhaps the Commonwealth's corporations power under the Constitution has never been fully explored, much less exploited. It could be that in the operation of that power authority might be discovered through which a discipline could be exercised over this other financial empire which is operating now and which is aggregating such enormous amounts of committed moneys in our community. 
The general question of the ownership and control of some of our major resources will come under the early scrutiny of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control of Australian resources. It could well be that the extent to which foreign ownership or participation has moved into this most sensitive and important area of our national life, the area of money and credit operation and control, will come within the ambit of the investigation of the Committee. Of all the areas in which Australian ownership and control is significant, this is possibly the most important. As this legislation indicates the importance which we attach to the substantial Australian ownership, control and management of the financial and credit resources as they are operated through the banks, it is equally important that the same sort of authority should be discovered in the other area of national finance and credit. As I have said, I am sure that this subject will come under the scrutiny of the Senate Committee. [ am a member of that Committee and I do not want to anticipate its investigations, but as part of its deliberations there could well be an examination of the possibility of legislative power and the exercise of that power within the constitutional power given under the head of corporations. If it is found by the Committee that this matter has reached dangerous proportions, or may reach proportions which will give us immediate or future cause for concern, this power may enable the Committee to suggest methods by which there could be some control in this area. 1 know that it has been suggested that it is very difficult to take action in this area, but a few years ago the Democratic Labor Party in Queensland al a State conference put forward the suggestion that there should be a gradation in scales of company tax so that as a public company had more or less Australian participating equity, so the rate of company tax should vary. In other words, if a public company had 50 per cent of Australian equity the company tax would be X per cent. On the other hand, if the Australian equity fell to 35 per cent the company tax would go up to X plus 4 per cent, and correspondingly it would become lower as the Australian equity increased. That, in itself, would be an inducement to Australian equity and Australian investors to participate. Also it would act as a warning sign to overseas investors that if they invested in Australia they would be subject to this type of disability, and if they attempted to gain control of an Australian company they would do so at their own cost and at that price. For the reasons I have mentioned the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. We think it is appropriate, that it is condign and that it is most opportune. If an investigation by the Parliament of the wider area of control of resources generally,  and particularly the control of national credit and banking, reveals that it is necessary for disciplines to be found which can be exercised in this area which is of fundamental importance in modern Australia, we hope that with the appropriate goodwill of the government of the day that course will be followed. The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
As this matter comes up for debate  1  am reminded that over the years it has been a constant subject of concern to  Senator Willesee.  In the many years that I have known him,  Senator Willesee  has always exhibited a keen interest in the Public Service, in its development and in its operation, and more particularly in the Post Office. The motion that he has brought forward is part of the exhibition of his concern that the Public Service, in the interests both of those who comprise it and of the role it plays in the community, should be at all times appropriately and efficiently structured, and that it should always bear the most modern image it is possible to attach to it. 

 Senator Willesee has suggested that it is time the Public Service was looked at by somebody, and he has mentioned one of the more recently established standing committees of the Senate. The reference which he has suggested should go to such a committee is extraordinarily wide. I could not imagine a reference that was wider in its terms than the one he has proposed. It relates to the structure, recruitment and management of the Public Service. An investigation into the structure of the Public Service would be, in itself, a tremendous exercise because it would involve an analysis of the whole of the Public Service organisation. It would require an examination of comparative structures of public services in other countries. It no doubt would involve an examination, with expert advice, of the commercial structures of great corporations so that any worthwhile ideas might be incorporated into the Public Service. That alone would be an exercise of immense proportions. 
An investigation into the management of the Public Service would go to the whole system and would involve the structure of the Public Service in the sense that there might be a suggestion that the present method of departmentalisation might be abandoned, that some other alternative method might be adopted, that the management of the Public Service might move from a board to a single commission or that it should be operated in some other way. The question would arise whether Public Service personnel should have a representative on the board. All of these are matters of very great moment. 
I think it is time that the Public Service was looked at. It would be a very good idea for the Public Service to come under periodic and regular scrutiny by some appropriate body because it is undoubted that practices have developed which have become old fashioned and undesirable and which are economically unsustainable and indefensible. Such a check could be done  by periodic reviews and examination of the Public Service. It becomes a question of what is the appropriate type of body to conduct such an investigation. On page 4697 of the notice paper, notice of motion No. 2 under General Business is as follows: 
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the structure, recruitment and management of the Commonwealth Public Serv ice and the citizen and industrial rights of its members. 
I presume that at some stage the Opposition considered that the appropriate investigating body would be a select committee of the Senate. I do not know whether one motion has been superseded by a subsequent motion. Obviously the Opposition itself is not fixed in its own mind on the more appropriate type of body to conduct art investigation of this great magnitude and of such immense proportions. I. do not think that either body suggested is the appropriate body to do it. The terms of reference would be so immensely widethat they would require attention by experts in that field who perhaps, if the job was done properly, would have to be drawn from the British public service or the American public service and then, with the assistance perhaps of experienced men from some of the States, one might constitute a top body of inquiry which would draw upon personal identification with the operation of public administrations in other English speaking countries such as Canada, America and so on. Such people would bring their knowledge not merely as advisers to a committee of the Senate, but would act judiciously in the final determination of what the committee's recommendations should be. Any inquiry at a lower level of expert structure than that would be highly undesirable because it might do only a second class job for the Public Service and would certainly not achieve the purpose which so worthily  Senator Willesee  has in mind. 
If a proposition were placed before this chamber at some time in the future that there should be a body - not a parliamentary body - of inquiry which would be called into being with a charter which would require a similar body, after a lapse of 5, 7, 8 or 10 years, to reinvestigate the matter,I personally would support it because I believe that the Public Service must be kept under constant and expert scrutiny by a body outside the administration itself. It is not sufficient that that scrutiny should involve the bringing of ideas purely from this Australian milieu. Instead it should attract the ideas which would come from the invitation to distinguished people associated with other public services to join the body of inquiry. This Parliament should be enthusiastic about such a suggestion. I would be extremely disappointed if the only investigation held into this proliferating public federal admi nistration in Australia was an investigation of this nature with all the limitations of time, the necessary limilations of personnel and the acknowledged limitations in expertise of the honourable senators who would comprise such a committee or, for that matter, even a select committee. I would regard that as a totally inadequate body to undertake thistask. We would achieve a result on which people might rest inadequately, and which would not give us those guidelines and pointers to the future for the Public Service which we feel should be a clear indication for the future planning of the public administration. 
For those reasons, while 1 support the concept of an inquiry into the Public Service I do not think that either a select committee, or more particularly a standing committee, would be the appropriate body to do so. If  Senator Willesee  on the appropriate occasion and in the appropriate form were to put forward an idea for a top level inquiry by a commission or some such body into the Public Service, I would be very happy about it and enthusiastically would give it my support. My Party feels that it cannot support the proposition now before us. Therefore we find ourselves in opposition to the motion moved by  Senator Willesee. 
It is perhaps appropriate (hat at a reasonably early stage of the debate somebody should endeavour to present the attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party because the attitude which we adopt in this matter may well be the determinant in the vote taken in this chamber. The proposition which is before the Senate is extremely serious. I am concerned because this is the third occasion in a very short time when a similar motion has been presented to this chamber. 1 recall a motion moved against a recently deceased honourable senator, a motion moved against an honourable senator who has recently been defeated or resigned and now a motion against this honourable senator. All of the honourable senators concerned have been Ministers. This is one of the most serious matters which can come before the chamber, apart from a censure motion against or a vote of no confidence in the Government. Those motions are not altogether available in this place. This is a censure motion against a member of the Government, a member of the Executive Council and a member of the Cabinet. If charges of this nature are to be levelled they must be levelled with great circumspection and they must be supported with evidence which is virtually incontrovertible. 
I know that on the occasion on which a censure motion or a vote of no confidence was moved against the now deceased honourable senator - his name will be well remembered by honourable senators here - it was led by 2 distinguished members of the legal profession. The only evidence which was tendered on that occasion might be described as inference resting on hearsay on hearsay. It was a body of evidence which would have been inadequate to sustain a charge on a simple offence. It would have been incompetent to support a charge of misdemeanour. It was totally inadequate on which to rest an indictment and monstrously inadequate on which to impugn the integrity and honour of a member of the Senate and of the Executive Council. I thought that at that time. Therefore I feel that when charges of this nature are levelled they must be levelled with circumspection and they must be supported with conclusive and compelling evidence. It is against this background that I make my few comments on the motion. 1 must say this: Whether a charge is sustainable or whether it should be sustained does not necessarily rest on the competence of the person making the charge lo sustain or on his entitlement to make it or perhaps on his own situation of delict. But it is appropriate in this context to draw attention to the circumstances under which this charge is made and the source from which it comes - the Australian Labor Party Opposition. On this charge  Senator Murphy  rests upon a strict reliance on the traditions and principles of the rule of law. He has demanded that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  in the function and administration of his office should have a scrupulous regard for those traditions and that observance and should always and at all times totally comply with them in every detail. That possibly is a fair proposition. 
 Perhaps there is no difference. There is no difference, either, in what I am going to say. But that is the basis on which  Senator Murphy  lays his charge against the Attorney-General.  Senator Murphy  says that the Attorney-General as the first law officer of the Crown should observe the entrenched traditions of the office strictly and without qualification. But the position of the Australian Labor Party in its known attitudes, its announced attitudes and its statements in this place has been that the rule of law no longer must be observed. In other words, the Australian Labor Party says: 'We charge you,  Mr Attorney-General,  because you have not observed the rule of law, though we ourselves condone its breaking and its disregard and we would completely destroy it'. In that situation there must be a total lack of real integrity in the basis of the charges laid. There must be a total lack of sincerity in the presentation of the motion against the Attorney-General. That situation concerns me greatly. Without qualification the distinguished honourable senators of the Opposition who have spoken have made statements like: 'Well, all laws do not have to be observed. One can afford to break certain laws if, in one's concept, they would be broken'.  Senator Wheeldon,  himself a member of the legal profession, points to actions which resulted in the Bill of Rights and actions taken throughout history which resulted in other great reforms. The honourable senator condones the actions of those who stepped outside the then processes of the law in order to sustain their oppostion. That may be right. That may be  Senator Wheeldon's  opinion. But the Opposition has consistently laid down the proposition that in certain circumstances people are entitled to step outside the rule of law. 
Outside the strict law, what we call the legal law, the social law, the municipal law, the constitutional law and the criminal law. The Opposition is saying that one may step outside that law if in one's concept one should step outside. But when the Opposition charges the Attorney-General it says that he must observe the rule of law strictly and without qualification.  I  want to know why there is this dichotomy in the thinking of those who charge the Minister. That is I cannot understand. If the law is to be obeyed and scrupulously regarded by the AttorneyGeneral it must be, in logic and in equity, obeyed and scrupulously regarded by everybody. Yet the Opposition considers itself entitled to advocate the stepping outside of the rule of law but is not prepared to give one inch to the Attorney-General. Is that the position of the Opposition? If so, why the double standard? That is what I want to know. If the motion moved by the Opposition against the AttorneyGeneral, that he must without equivocation and qualification observe the strict rule of law, is sustainable then the Opposition must adopt the same standard. If the Opposition abandons that standard it cannot expect the Attorney-General to observe it and cannot require him to observe it. What is the position of the Opposition? It cannot have things both ways. I say to my friends who sit on my right: 'Which way do you want it?' If they want to justify people stepping outside the rule of law then let them withdraw their charge against the Attorney-General if they fee that in his judgment he has stepped outside the law. But if they feel that the AttorneyGeneral should observe the law then I ask every Opposition senator who has spoken to retract their statements and say: 'We require strict observance of the rule of law'. Which side is it to be? This chamber is waiting for the Opposition to take its stand. Personally, 1 shall bc intensely interested to see which side they take. This argument appears to revolve round the prejudicial effects of statements made hy the Attorney-General on the outcome of a prosecution which has been launched because of a violation of the National Service Act. Terms such as 'this lawless conduct' have been used by the AttorneyGeneral. The conduct referred to by the AttorneyGeneral obviously does not refer to the violation of the National Service Act, which is the matter that honourable senators say is likely to be prejudiced by the Attorney-General's course of conduct. The Attorney-General says that it is the evasion of the processes of the law, the refusal to answer a summons and then the evasion of the service of the warrant of arrest which create the situation of lawlessness. The question is whether the Attorney-General has said something likely to prejudice the substantive case - that is, the violation of the National Service Act - and this has no relevance at all in the remarks which he has made. They were not directed to that matter. They can have no bearing on it. lt is a matter of fact that the AttorneyGeneral stated that this young man for reasons best known to himself considered himself entitled to disregard a summons of the court and then to evade the warrant of arrest. That is a violation of the rule of law. lt is a violation of the processes of law which he considered he was entitled to do. That may be all right. But whether the comments of the Attorney-General in any sense can have any prejudicial effect upon the hearing of a substantive case or only in relation to that matter is another question altogether. 
The Attorney-General has not only duties which embrace not only this young man in question but also a responsibility in relation to the community which must be observed, too. 1 know that references were made by the Attorney-General to the position of the Australian Labor Party in condoning, encouraging or supporting - whatever verb may be used - the conduct of this young man. Has the Attorney-General trespassed not only his entitlement but also beyond his duty in making such a reference? After all, the Australian Labor Party is the Party in official opposition. It is part in that sense of the processes of government. The Leader of the Australian Labor Party is described as the Leader of Her Majesty's Opposition. 1 should imagine that the Attorney-General, vested with the total administration of the Commonwealth law in the technical sense, has a duty to point out to those who with him have a participation in the affairs of government their duties and their responsibilities. I think, therefore that if the Attorney-General calls on any section of the community - it may be a conservation group, the Australian Labor Party, the Australian Democraic Labor Party or any other group - to help him in the administration of the law, or at least not to frustrate him in the administration of the law, it is part of his duty to do so. I cannot see anything condign or anything improper in that being done. 
This is quite a serious matter and it is one that should attract with deep concern the attention of the Senate. There are those in this place who protest concern for civil rights and hold, for example, that parties under interrogation should not be subject to pressures by police or improper entry and search by investigating authorities. I agree with all those propositions. But the Attorney-General has said that everybody must obey the law and those people must obey the law.  Senator Cavanagh  has so often and with such relevance and sometimes very great effectiveness raised propositions and proposed amendments in respect of regulations where individual rights have been interfered with. He has been insistent on compliance with the rule of law in the theoretical and in the pragmatic sense. He and others have been most scrupulous in this respect. Therefore, when he rises in the Senate today and says that a person can step outside the law his remarks contradict so many other attitudes that he has taken here. I want to know the reason for this fundamental contradiction. What concerns me about this matter is that it is not so much the principle as the Act which is involved. If it concerned the avoidance of a summons and an arrest warrant under a traffic Act or some other Act, we would have had none of this heat at all. The heat all stems from the very Act in question. What concerns me is that the Attorney-General may be under charge in a technical sense such as this and on technical grounds, when the real dynamic behind this motion may be what I would say is completely undue concern and an absolute oversensitivity in relation to the National Service Act; and the terms that I use are mild. 
In those circumstances, I do not feel that any case has been made that could be supported by a body of competent jurisdiction properly applying its mind to the facts and to the circumstances of the situation to level these charges against the AttorneyGeneral, much less to sustain them to the point of acceptance. Although I entered the debate somewhat early it was in sufficient time to have heard many of the arguments presented. I do not feel that those arguments sustain the proposition which is now before the Senate. For those reasons I state that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will resist the motion as presented by the Leader of the Opposition. 
That is the matter in your name. I was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to which this matter was referred. We have brought in a report. When one transfers an item above another item it can only be because there is an urgency about it which warrants that action being taken. For example, as 1 look through the orders of the day - quite apart from No. 2 - I see that Order of the Day No. 18 relates to the adjourned debate on the report by the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. 1 imagine that perhaps in the modern context that is much more important and urgent than  Senator Murphy's  Bill. .1 know of nobody under sentence of death. 1 know of nobody likely to be sentenced to death or executed. But every day death sentences are being imposed on this community through drug trafficking. I think that, as a question of importance and priority, that matter should have priority over  Senator Murphy's  Bill. That illustrates the type of thing which happens if something is transferred from the bottom of the business sheet to the top because, quite justifiably some person is intensely interested in the presentation of the matter and a decision on it. 
No. 1 think I would have used the same argument. I did not do it by private arrangement. 
With  Senator Turnbull's  matter, yes, but not ours. 
Yes, the honourable senator has asked just now but not earlier. He made an arrangement with  Senator Turnbull  and he asks the Senate to endorse that arrangement. But, as 1 say, that would amount to an individual rearrangement - person to person - of the business sheet. This would be an undesirable practice. I think that  Senator DrakeBrockman's  proposition is very important. This matter not only attracts the attention of the professional lawyers in the chamber but also it is a matter of very high policy. In the absence of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  I think it is highly undesirable that we should proceed to taking the debate to a vote. Unfortunately 1 shall be unable to be here tonight. As one who spoke on this matter and who was a member of the Committee which looked at the Bill on reference 1 should like to be here. Unfortunately I cannot be here tonight. That is another personal reason why I would like to see the matter deferred. For those reasons 1 cannot find myself in accord with the proposition advanced by  Senator Murphy.  If  Senator Turnbull  still does not wish to proceed with his order of the day then I suggest that we should go down the business sheet in chronological order. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It is appropriate that I should direct it to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson because he was the distinguished leader of a parliamentary delegation, of which I had the privilege of being a member, to the Council of Europe. It was an occasion when Australia was given the oppotunity to speak, through its delegation, at the Council of Europe. Since then we have assumed full membership of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. With that prelude,  Mr President,  1 direct the following question to the Minister - 
 Senator Mulvihill  was another distinguised member of the delegation, as was  Senator Davidson.  I ask: May I presume that the Minister is aware of the announcement by the Secretary-General of the OECD,  Mr van  Lennep, . that, firstly, a commission of that body will shortly be visiting Australia to make an assessment of tht Australian economy and, secondly, that the OECD will be making an assessment in the near future of the New Zealand rural economy and at a later date of the Australian rural economy?, Does the Minister not consider that art assessment of the rural economy should be made by a suitable Australian commission, as has been urged in the Parliament' and elsewhere by the Australian Democratic Labour Party over many years and which has always been resisted by the Government and the Opposition? 
I was in the happy position of playing a dual role in that I was the leader of the delegation and then I had to break off from the delegation to take up certain responsibilities in my capacity as Minister for Supply. I must admit that I became very ill and my wife became very ill also whilst we were in London. I had to cut my visit short in order to return to Australia. 
I would like to give some thought to the question put by  Senator Byrne.  I think that it is a wonderful thing that a commission from the OECD is coming here. Having said that, I would like to put to study and contemplation in my own right the points raised by  Senator Byrne  in relation to an examination of the rural scene. I will respond to this question during the next sitting week of the Senate. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the move by the Government. In the first place, it reflects the attitude of the Government in creating a new Ministry and appointing a Minister to it to have within its purview this among other pertinent and appropriate matters. We must realise that we are living in an affluent society, but a society that is becoming rather sterile in which the concentration is on material things to the exclusion of other things which are very much more important. We must be particularly alert that we do not create a society which will be rich in material resources and which will be denuded of depth in cultural matters. 
There is a great repository of artistic skill in the various fields of art in this country. But we must realise one thing: In spite of the availability of air travel, we are still a long way from the traditional cultural centres of the world. It is, after all, from these wells that countries of Western culture have drawn and have been enabled to enrich their own cultural backgrounds. But, of course, we are quite close to the cultural centres of the East. It is to be expected that as a nation which is close to Asia not merely will we draw from these wells but that the Asian cultural influences will have tremendous impact on this country. Already I think it could be said that they are. We are particularly equipped to make an estimate of what is the effect of non-Australian cultural influences on our society. With the influx of so many citizens from Europe over the past 20 years, we have already seen a great diversification of our culture. We have seen names, obviously of recent European origin, acquitting themselves very well in cultural and art competitions and obviously making a tremendous contribution to the cultural and artistic achievements of this country. 
But I agree that one of the most important things is that we should develop our own indigenous culture and our own indigenous arts. This will not be something that springs from the wells of our own particular Australian milieu. It is a development that we can expect will draw in some sort of an amalgam from the cultural influences which surround us. Therefore, we can expect that, properly organised and properly disciplined in the professional sense, there will be a tremendously diversified cultural explosion in Australia. 
For these reasons we welcome this action by the Government. We are particularly pleased with the personnel who have been appointed to this Committee. By their short biographies, obviously they are people who are wonderfully well equipped and who will bring not only skill and experience but also dedication and enthusiasm to their job. We can anticipate that, in the years to come, the effects of this action by the Government will be reflected in the enrichment and the diversification of our culture. We should be happy that we have been parties to and have been present at what might be called the initiation of this new activity which we hope will be extraordinarily fruitful in the future. I commend the Government for its action. We will look forward to giving, and 1 think that honourable senators should attempt to give, this Committee and its activities all the support that it is possible to provide. We, with enthusiasm support the proposition. 
 It  is not my intention to speak at any length at this stage of the Bill and in the Committee stage a long, protracted and detailed discussion of this extremely complex body of what might be called evidentiary law may not be particularly fruitful, but  I  should like to make one or two observations. This is a statutory attempt to introduce an evidentiary code which was proposed originally by ordinance. The Senate having raised its voice against that method, the matter has been introduced by way of a Bill to merge into the statutes. The Bill deals with many propositions relating to the adduction of evidence in courts - criminal and civil. I do not suppose there is a field of law which is more complex or which, to the layman, seems more frustrating and illogical. As a matter of fact, the law of evidence often appears to be extremely frustrating and extremely illogical to practitioners in the art of law. If the object of legal examination is to attempt to adduce the truth and to arrive at fact every precaution must be taken to ensure that the evidence that comes forward is evidence which can be relied upon, which comes from the proper source and which can be convincing and finally compelling in its operation. 
Over the years an extraordinarily complex body of evidentiary law has grown up with principle following principle and with qualification following qualification until it is now emerging that the whole body of evidentiary law has become somewhat formalised and ritualistic. If that is the position we finally reach the situation where the ritual may be more important than the substance and the rules more important than the end to be achieved. I know from appearing in courts where one has lay clients or there are lay observers that they cannot possibly see why certain questions may not be asked. It seems to them as a matter of cold logic that the asking of a question and the answer, one way or the other, would tend to establish the truth or falsity of a proposition. It is almost impossible to convince them that justice is being done when the opportunity to ask that particular question is denied by the court or is not available under the rules of evidentiary law. As a matter of fact it often appears to the lawyer that the cause of justice is not being served by that denial. 
For that reason, with these situations developing and expanding from year to year, the legal profession has felt that the laws of evidence would have to be overhauled substantially. This arises from a number of considerations, some of which were mentioned by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in his second reading speech. As an example, it was said that the laws of evidence had to be stringent, that they had, if anything, to lean on the side of sensi'ivity rather than the side of blunt.ness when dealing with non-professional people on juries who would be inclined, quite without warrant, to place undue emphasis on evidence that was not complete persuasive and which was not entitled to credibility or even to credence. Therefore, courts had to err on the side of severity in the adduction of evidence, limiting it rather than providing extended opportunities for its adduction. 
As the Minister said, as we live now in a more sophisticated and better educated community when jury trials, apart from the coram jursidiction, are subs'antially disappearing, with lay people bringing their minds and jugments to matters in courts, because these people are better equipped and better educaed and are able to make a better assessment, even within the refinemen'.s of evidence as it is presented, it is not necessary to surround the adduction of evidence with all the formalism that formerly was attached to it. It can now be left to the common sense, education and experience of those people who bring their minds to it to make their own dissection, acceptance or rejection of the evidence adduced. Therefore, the tendency of the law has been rather to lay the emphasis upon the adduction more liberally of evidence which formerly might have been rejected, and a person bringing his mind to bear on the establishment of facts or arriving a* a decision about a situation should go to the question of weight. That is, if the evidence under the old principles would not have been strictly admissable, if it comes in under some new principle it is left then to these new qualifications found in the modern community to say, under judicial direction, that it has this weight or has not that weigh'. The purpose is. to alert the jurors or lay people to that situation. That seems to be a more rational, logical and, certainly, more modern approach. 
We must always be careful that our laws do not become like the laws of the Medes and Persians, immutable, totally unchangeable, until it becomes almost ritualistic and the real purpose of arriving at the truth is lost in the formalism of the law. Nowhere, perhaps, do we find more of what appears to be artificiality than in the law relating to the adduction of what is called 'hearsay evidence', which is evidence purporting to be given by somebody who does not speak of his own personal knowledge or identification of the incident to which he testifies. There is a principle of the law of hearsay evidence that it is generally inadmissible, and over the years a whole host of complex and refined qualifications have grown up. Any textbook now will probably recite from decided cases perhaps 10 or 12 principles which are called 'qualifications of the hearsay rule' and which would allow to be given evidence which otherwise, on the broad principle of the hearsay rule, would be excluded. All this has tended to complicate the law and to make directions in certain cases by judicial presiding officers to juries very difficult for jurors to bring to their minds to that they make a. fair evaluation of the situation. 
New approaches such as this approach in the Australian Capital Territory reflect changes that have been taking place in England over more recent and even more remote years, changes which have tended to bring the laws of evidence into a modern format and to make them more appropriate and relevant to the modern community. One matter that concerns me is that some of the principles now being embodied in our review of evidentiary laws are principles which were written into English law perhaps more than 30 years ago. It is a matter of concern that, if those principles have operated in England for so long, we have been so tardy in establishing them, accepting them and writing them into our Commonwealth or State law. Surely if our British cousins are able to give their minds and their legal examination to these matters it should not be so long after that we should pick up the work they have done, establish its worth and carry it into our own municipal law or, alternatively and better, that we ourselves should be conducting this type of examination - this kind of legal scholarship - and coming up with our own suggestions. Perhaps the Atorney-General will be able to put me right on this, but I never thought that Australia stood in the forefront of legal pioneering. 
That is right. The amalgum of law and equity was not adopted by New South Wales for a century and a half. 
Yes. So it is strange that what we might call 'legal experimentation' is much more an accomplishment in New Zealand than it has been in Australia. I think the whole world is indebted to that dominion for the introduction of the principle of testators family maintenance and many other legal principles. New Zealand over the years has produced many eminent jurists- men like Salmond and others. To my recollection Australia has never been in the forefront of legal experimentation and pioneering, but I see no reason why we should not be in that position. As a matter of fact, it is only in more recent years that some of the States have decided even to create legal review committees to review statute law and to discard some of the old statutes which, either in their drafting or in their principles, had become outmoded, and to review them, repeal them or even re-write them. Again, I see no reason why there should be this constant tardiness within the legal profession. I include in that the public authorities associated with the law and the private legal profession. 
Tremendous work is being done now, voluntarily, by members of the private legal profession. A matter referred to here in recent times was the advent of a criminal code for the Federal territories. The work on that was done substantially by practitioners in Queensland from the private Bar and practising solicitors, with the distinguished assistance of legal academics. Because Queensland was a State that had a criminal code of very great moment, tremendous authority and prestige, as well as many years operation, perhaps it was thought appropriate that that State should be entrusted with the attempted presentation of a more modern code, embracing the new principles, including psychological principles and matters such as that, for operation in the territories. But as I say the legal profession is doing a great deal of work and it is gratifying to see that a code such as this is now being presented to the Australian Capital Territory. 
An examination of the principles here will possibly be done more appropriately and in greater depth during our consideration in Committee, but I wonder whether the Committee, in the rather casual approach that it must necessarily give to a matter like this which comes before a chamber so busy with other matters, in an atmosphere of politics and other things, is the appropriate body at this time to examine in necessary depth a matter of this nature which primarily, substantially and ultimately is technical and technological. It may be matter that could be referred in detail to the Legal and Constitutional Committee, where perhaps the lawyers of the Senate, sitting in the appropriate atmosphere, might examine it in conjunction with a consideration of State codes of evidence. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was speaking on the general question of the modern amendments and developments of the evidentiary code which are taking place throughout countries with the principles of English law. I do not intend to continue my remarks for very long on the second reading because I know that honourable senators are more interested in the detailed examination of the provisions of the Bill in the Committee stage. I was regretting, at a time when the Commonwealth has deemed it wise to look at these evidential provisions for the Federal Territories, that at the same time there has not been an apparent attempt to write uniform evidentiary codes throughout Australia. For example, Part VI of the Bill deals with the provisions in relation to the admissibility of statements in documents. Clause 28 (1.) provides: 
Where direct oral evidence oE a fact or of an opinion would be admissible in a proceeding . . . 
That is what is written into this provision. When we look at a similar provision in relation to the admissibility of documents in evidence written into the Queensland Evidence and Discovery Act of 1962, we find that there is no reference to the expression of an opinion in a document. One can see the value of that, for example, if it will enable the admissibility of medical reports, which would involve not merely the oral evidence of the doctor but the evidence of the facts stated in them. In these circumstances medical records may very often embrace the opinion which ultimately stems from the recitation and assessment of the facts. I think it is not inappropriate that this provision for an expression of opinion as part of a document should be admissible subject to the terms and conditions of the section. But a similar provision does not appear to be made in the Queensland statute. 
To my mind that highlights the principle to which I was addressing myself, that it is to be regretted that with the constant consultations that now take place beween the Federal Attorney-General and the State Attorneys-General - regular conferences do take place on matters of uniformity - on a matter as important as this uniformity could not have been arrived at. The Attorney-General may be able to tell me - I would be indebted if he would - what developments are taking place and what consultations are taking place in this area of the law. There have been successful consultations in relation to company law and similar matters. But as I say, at a time when law reform committees are being constituted and operating it is a shame that the initiative should not be taken by the Commonwealth, not merely to write a provision such as this into the law but to see that it is embraced by the States and becomes a uniform national provision. More particularly still, a national code should emerge. 
As I say, the real application of the Senate in this field obviously will occur in the Committee stage of the debate. I do not see a great deal of reason to pursue general principles any further on the second reading of the Bill. I think we all welcome the advent of this evidentiary code which is perhaps embraced more particularly now in statute. I remind honourable senators that the Attorney-General promised that this would be done when we raised with him previously some difficultiesin relation to this evidentiary code. I am indebted to the honourable senator for the action he has taken. I am sure it will attract the attention of many distinguished lawyers in this place. While I may think that perhaps such a discussion in such a short time and in the context of this debate in this place may not be as valuable as a document such as this, which requires particular and detailed scrutiny in depth, might be entitled to attract, nevertheless I would imagine that the deliberations of the Senate will be of great value to the Attorney-General and of great value perhaps in improving, so far as is within our competence, the provisions now contemplated. We support the Bill in general terms. 
This departure which is contemplated in the Bill is most important.  Senator Murphy  has approached its extension with some concern. The basis of  Senator James  McClelland's concern apparently rests on the fact that it is a new provision applied in a criminal jurisdiction. He feels that more experience should have been gained in the application of this principle in the civil jurisdiction. That may be an appropriate comment, but surely enough time has gone by to have observed the operation of it in the civil jurisdiction. As it has operated also in criminal jurisdictions in the States which were mentioned by the Attorney. General  (Senator Greenwood)  and has operated in England, there must be now a great volume of experience available as to how it has operated in all those places where this extended law exists. 
It does not operate in all States of Australia but only in the ones mentioned by the Attorney-General. For example, it does not operate in Queensland - at least I do not think it has been applied there to criminal proceedings. I propose to cite from An outline of the Law of Evidence', second edition, by Rupert Cross and Nancy Wilkins in relation to records admissible in criminal cases under the Criminal Evidence Act 1965. The book states at page 125: 
In any criminal proceedings, where direct oral evidence of a fact would be admissible, any statement made by a person in a document which is, or forms part of, a record is admissible as evidence of that fact provided the following conditions are satisfied: 
The record relates to any trade or business end was compiled in the course of that trade or business. 
The record was compiled from information directly or indirectly supplied by persons who have, or may reasonably be supposed to have, personal knowledge of the matters dealt with. 
To put the matter in context I read the explanation, which states* 
The Criminal Evidence Act, 1965, was passed in order to obviate the principal effects of the decision of the House of Lords in Myers v. Director of Public Prosecutions according to which motor manufacturers' records were inadmissible at common law as evidence of the numbers on cylinder blocks placed in engines bv workmen who had long since ceased to be identifiable or who have any  recollection  of the matter. If the workmen had been identified and proved to have been dead, the records might have been admissible as statements made by deceased persons in the course of duty. 
Although its wording is, to a large extent, similar to that of the Evidence Act, 1938, set out in the previous article, the scope of the Act of 1965 is much narrower because it is confined to records kept for trade or business purposes, lt does not. like the Act of 1938, extend to statements made to solicitors or police officers by potential witnesses who have died or gone abroad, or to letters containing relevant assertions. Such statements, as distinct from records, will generally only be admissible in criminal cases as agreed statements of fact, discussed in article 49. Even then, the requisite consent is only likely to be forthcoming when the evidence is of no great importance. 
The conditions of admissibility are more liberal under the Act of 1965 than under that of 1938, in three respects. First, the fact that the supplier of the information recorded was a person interested does not render the record inadmissible though it may affect the weight to be attached to the record. Secondly, the Act of 1965, unlike that of 1938, allows for the reception of records where the information is supplied indirectly to the person compiling the record. Thirdly, to be admissible under the Act of 1965, the record need not be a continuous one. 
In the Act of 1965, 'document' includes any device by which information is recorded or stored. This is wider than the wording of the Act of 1938 under which document' includes simply books, maps, plans, drawings and photographs. It is doubtful whether either definition is apt to cover all computerised records. As I understand it - the Attorney-General may care to correct me on this - apparently this extension to the criminal law is not in any way apart from the discretion given as cited by the Attorney in his last comment. There is no circumscription of this as against the principle applied in the civil jurisdiction. Apparently in England there is a limitation on the information; it must be information which, as has been said, is much narrower, because it is confined to records kept for trade or business purposes. If, therefore, we are looking at the experience of this provision operating in other jurisdictions, the experience in England would be of very great moment, but if the English Act is so much narrower and confined in that area the English experience would not be particularly pertinent or compelling. 
The fact that the Act has operated now for 6 years with some experience would not necessarily be a cogent fact persuading us to the adoption of a similar principle in our law. As I read it - perhaps the Attorney would be kind enough to indicate to me whether I am correct - there is no particular qualification or circumscription of this principle in its application to the criminal jurisdiction. It is as wide in the criminal jurisdiction as it is in the civil jurisdiction, unlike its English counterpart. That might well affect the attitude that could be taken in relation to this matter. 
I am indebted to the, Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  for his comments but, with respect, the Attorney-General directed his mind to what he called the hedging provisions which protect persons affected by this clause from any element of unfairness or anything of a prejudicial character. I agree with that but what I am directing my mind to is the are.a within which this type of evidence can be given, and not the protections that are given if the evidence is purported to be presented. 
As I say, the English law does not extend the whole of the availability of this type of provision in the civil law to the criminal jurisdiction. It seems to hedge around it. It ties it down expressly to the. Criminal Evidence Act 1965. lt is confined to records kept for trade or business purposes. If my reading of the provision is correct it is an extraordinarily limited application of the principle. After all, in the searching of commercial records we can see very many reasons why this may be a condigne principle in that limited area. As a matter of fact, as stated in this book to which I made reference, the 1965 amendment to the Criminal Evidence Act stemmed from a decision of the House of Lords in Myers v. the Director of Public Prosecutions, according to which motor manufacturers' records were inadmissible at common law as evidence of the number of cylinder blocks placed in engines by workmen who had long since ceased to be identifiable or to have any recollection of the matter. I suppose that is a very practical reason why, within the area of trade and commerce, such a provision should be applied in the criminal jurisdiction. 
Yes, I think that would be right. I think it is very reasonable, very logical and very compelling. But I would be pleased if the Attorney-General would give us a further comment as to whether, in the absence of any such circumscription and in the application of the principles generally over the criminal field and over all areas of operation, he would still consider that so extending it merely with certain qualifications and protections would be a proper course to pursue and whether perhaps he should not reconsider this matter in the light of information from Great Britain as to the operation of the Criminal Evidence Act 1965 with the limited extension there given; that is, whether that is proof of some value or whether it is inadequate proof. I do feel that this is a most important principle. If we are to take the initiative in this extension it will certainly be a very big leap forward. It will be a very much bigger leap forward than Britain made at that time in 1965 after 30 years. 
Or backwards, whatever it may be.. I appreciate the comments of the Attorney-General but very often it is rather like the old situation when an accused was not allowed to give evidence on his own behalf and then he was permitted to give it. Some people said that one finally finished up operating almost prejudicially to the accused by permitting him to give evidence. The same thing could happen here. We may appear to be giving an advantage to a person but we may be giving a disadvantage. On the other hand, we might be depriving a litigant of legitimate access to records which would exculpate him or at least give him a chance of success. 
That is what the Attorney-General said - that the denial of this provision could operate to the prejudice of an accused. I think that was the Attorney-General's proposition. I agree with that. But we must not think that this provision will tell always against the accused, lt may tell in his favour. The Attorney-General says that deleting it may be prejudicial to the accused; whereas, in fact, at times it could be of benefit to the accused. I think that was the AttorneyGeneral's proposition. He may be quite right. We are being asked to take this big leap forward - it would be a very big leap forward - in the absence of some element of certainty and in the absence of some information as to why in Great Britain as far as they were prepared to go was to operate within this very limited and very logical field. So I would be a little concerned about supporting the proposition. I do not say that finally and definitely; but I would have some very deep concern about supporting it in these circumstances. 
This Part of the Bill is a very big departure from the traditional altitude to the husband-wife relationship and communications between the 2 spouses. 1 would have felt that as this is such a major departure the Senate and the Parliament would have been owed a total examination and that a collection of philosophical and legal comments on the subject should have been provided for the Senate. We can do our own researches. We can have our own views. Practitioners who have had long and distinguished careers in law have spoken on this; they would speak from their experiences. But their comments may well be brushed aside on a closer and deeper philosophic and social examination of the situation. 1 feel that we should have been asked to make this radical departure only when we had before us, perhaps at the instance of the Government, papers presenting a collection of judicial opinion, judicial experience, academic opinion and things of that nature. It may not be thought that that lies within the province of the Government. 
The Attorney-General, in his second reading speech, condescended in particular detail, but really  in an  explanatory way, to point out the variations in the law but he did not give the philosophical or social bases on which it was suggested that the variations be made. As the departure is  a  very radical one I feel that it should not be left to the resources and the researches of individual senators but that the subject should have received examination by the Government and that we should have been provided with the source materials. Obviously if a departure such as this is to be embarked upon something must have stimulated the Government to make it. It would be stimulated either by the experience of the Crown's officers or by the examinations of the academics or the social philosophers who have placed their views before the Government. I think that the Government should have acquainted the Senate with what prompted it to make this departure. As I have not had the opportunity to make the necessary research or to form a firm conclusion I am reluctant to be a party to the departure. I know that the Attorney-General has been asked to and has agreed to defer consideration of certain parts of the Bill until a later hour. I am afraid that  if  my proposition  is  accepted consideration would have to be deferred until  a  very much later hour so that there could be  a  study of this base material. 
 I understand the position. That is one reason why I am most reluctant to agree to this extension,  in  the absence of  a  deep examination of the proposition. I do not know whether the Attorney-General might care to comment on the suggestions that I have placed before him. 
 Of all the cases which might attract one to resist the abolition of capital punishment this is possibly the most conspicuous because it is a situation where there is extreme vulnerability in the case of the victim and virtually a total immunity in the case of the perpetrator. As I say, that might well induce one who is opposed to capital punishment to resist its abolition in this particular case. However, I do not fe.el that one can select particular exceptions. I suggest as an example the. hijacking of an aircraft. There may not be the same immunity from punishment but possibly there is an ever greater vulnerability. If one puts emphasis on vulnerability as against immunity I think that one would say that of the 2 cases capital punishment should be retained in the case of a hijacking rather than in the case of an assault on  a  policeman. 
Yes. I do not want it to be thought that there is any callousness of attitude, particularly in relation to the police. I am sure that every honourable senator in this place is particularly sensitive to and aware of the work and the courage of the police and of the danger into which police duty necessarily takes members of the police force. Therefore the Senate is not being callous and saying: They can take the risks and we will deny them the protection which the law could give them.' I certainly would not like anybody to think that that dictates my attitude in this matter. It is primarily to make that clear that I rise. But I do not mink that one can go on making particular exceptions. If the philosophical principle is there then I think it has to be given legislative expression. We still do not appear to have resolved the basic question of the purpose of the exaction of capital punishment. It has been referred to as capital punishment. Is it punitive? 
That is right. But I do not know that we have altogether discovered the real purpose. Is it to be punitive or is it to be deterrent in concept? One of the great dangers to which  Senator Hannan  drew attention when he spoke of most horrifying circumstances and to which the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  drew attention earlier is this: It can have the effect of clouding the calm, objective assessment of the position. About 18 months ago I was in the House of Commons when the Bill dealing with the abolition of capital punishment was presented. I could stay for only a limited period but the Bill was presented by a most distinguished bevy of members of the House of. Commons. It was brought in by the Home Secretary, then  Mr Callaghan.  It was spoken to by  Mr Quintin  Hogg, the former Viscount Hailsham and by  Mr Duncan  Sandys. One thing which impressed me was the. calmness and the lack of emotionalism in the discussion which took place in the House of Commons. It was a sensitive matter. Tt was a matter which might well have evoked the emotive response of every member of the House as could the matters which  Senator Hannan  and  Senator Wright  brought forward. But in the calm objective committee atmosphere of the House of Commons the matter was discussed with complete objectivity. I think that that is the only way in which this matter can be or should be discussed. 
No. The honourable senator raised very emotional circumstances which would certainly produce emotive response in a person of ordinary sensitivity and sensibility. If one went into these matters one could build up a totally emotional atmosphere which might completely destroy the ability to approach this situation in an atmosphere of calm intellectual ism. I think that that is how it has to be approached. While realising that in this case a person might be persuaded to resist abolition, I do not think that an exception can be made in particular circumstances. If this is an instance in which an exception should be made I am afraid that I cannot support it, even in this case. In those circumstances I do not support the amendment as propounded by  Senator Wright.  I can see the merit, the apparent logic and many other qualities in  the amendment which would induce the honourable senator to present it and other honourable senators to support it. But in the total balance I find myself unable to be with him in the acceptance of this principle and this proposition. 
On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party I join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate, and the Deputy 
Leader of the Opposition in the Senate in extending our condolences to the widow and family of the late  Senator Kendall.  I had the pleasure of serving with  Senator Kendall  in this place for some years. As has been said, he was a quiet man who had 2 particular interests. At all times he projected and sustained them in this chamber. He had an abiding interest in the future of Papua New Guinea on which he was particularly well-informed and to which he directed his attention and the attention of the Senate on many occasions. By virtue of his love of the. sea and his association with it he was intensely interested in the maritime industry of Australia. In a field in which there is perhaps not enough knowledge and energy  Senator Kendall  always brought to deliberations on that matter his knowledge, experience and interest. He acted virtually as assistant Whip in this place for many years. He was a man of quiet dedication and high principles. He served his country with great distinction in the Navy in war and sustained that interest in peace. I feel that  Senator Kendall's  passing is the severing of one of those links which become more precious as the years go on. On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and for myself personally I convey to those who survive him our deepest sympathy. 
A Bill which involves the operations of the Tariff Board always is a most important measure because those operations are extremely important. In the. disciplined Australian economy the Tariff Board occupies a key position. It is increasingly conscious of the power, authority and role it plays in the Australian economy. From operating purely in relation to an individual industry and giving it protection almost ad hoc, the Tariff Board over more recent years has seen its duty as lying in a more general and wider field and in laying down the general principles in relation to the imposition and operation of tariff policy which is related to the functioning of the whole of the Australian economy - the efficiency of Australian industry and the healthy operation of the Australian economy generally. Although inefficient industries are highly protected they should not, as it were, be dragging against the economic pulls towards national prosperity, full employment and the creation of national wealth. In part this Bill stems from the determinations and recommendations of the Tariff Board following references to the Board as a result of determinations by the Special Authority imposing intermediate tariff rates on knitted garments, knitted outer garments and woven shirts. Of course it goes on to deal with other matters. 
The comments of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in his second reading speech on this Bill were extremely illuminating and referred to certain general propositions which are of particular importance. The Minister said that the Tariff Board found that the industries' most common disabilities were those which flowed from the high cost of raw materials supplied by the local chemical industry, the high cost of Australian labour and the limited size of the Australian market. Possibly the second two components he mentioned cannot be overcome. The labour cost in Australia is high because of the nature of our national economy and our national life. Allowing for the undue acceleration of that factor through inflation, the labour costs always will remain high. Also, the limited nature of the Australian market is something which must remain with us while our population remains at the present level. 
The first component in these particular garments is the high cost of raw materials supplied by the local chemical industry. 
The Minister could comment on this. I think it is a fact that the great bulk of the raw materials which are processed in our manufacturing industries are imported. I often think, like  Senator Webster,  that we do not give enough credit to the primary industries which have provided a great deal of the export earnings with which Australia purchases the raw materials which are processed in our secondary industries. I think that secondary industry as a whole does not sufficiently recognise its dependence on the earning capacity of primary industry. I am sure that  Senator Webster  agrees with that proposition. 
I thank the honourable senator. Therefore where the cost of the base material is so significant as to affect the whole operation of the application of the tariff structure in particular cases it becomes a matter of very great moment. It is not the intention of the Democratic Labor Party to debate this Bill at any great length because its introduction follows a detailed examination by the Tariff Board. The Democratic Labor Party anticipates a further important step that is going to be taken; that is that rather than continue to impose a high tariff barrier against goods coming from cheaply manufacturing countries the Government is going to attempt to find an accommodation with such countries so that there shall be a rationalisation of their exports on the basis of price and quantity. Undoubtedly, that is much more in consonance with the Kennedy Round and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade than is our brutal imposition of a high tariff irrespective of any other consideration. Insofar as it is the Government's disposition to try to handle this matter by negotiation with the exporting countries, I think it is most commendable that that should be the approach. Therefore, the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. We hope that from the indications of the attitude of the Tariff Board and the indication of the disposition of the Government it may be possible to make our contribution to the much freer flow of international trade and to put at the disposal not only of this country but of all the nations of the world, many pf which are poorer than our country, the consumer goods which are so very badly lacking and completely beyond their present means to purchase. I support the Bill. 
I have only one or two comments. I take  Senator Murphy's  point that the procedures before committees should assimilate some judicial procedures, while not slavishly following them. The senator and I have made the proposition that if judgment is to be passed on a decision of the committee not to publish evidence, it is a very difficult position if the Senate does not have the body of evidence before it in which either to uphold that position or overrule it.  Senator Cavanagh  suggests- 
 This extremely valuable report comes before the Committee for further examination, certain sections of it having been discussed and adopted already. Item 8, with which we are now dealing, is extremely important and will have increasing importance as the committee system develops and as the committees themselves proliferate. Therefore it is extremely important that, if it is necessary to lay down guidelines, a formula or a code, it should be done as soon as possible and with the greatest precision - if with precision is considered the desirable way in which these rights should be determined. 
When there is an over-presentation in detail of a code of rights there is always the possibility of interpretation destroying the rights which are not stated explicitly. Perhaps part of the strength of the British constitutional system has lain in the vagueness of the constitution and the indefinite and unspecified rights which, in a crisis, in some way can be discovered and implemented. Therefore, whilst I agree with  Senator Murphy  that some guidelines are necessary, I would not be anxious to have them denned too clearly or delineated too specifically because if they were there might be a process of exclusion by an over-strenuous or over-severe interpretation. 
It is regrettable that we are again considering this report, which came from the Standing Orders Committee in August 1971, while there remains on the notice paper the following motion in my name: 
With a view to the Standing Orders Committee being as representative as possible of the composition of the Senate at any time, the Senate resolves that: 
Standing Order 33 be amended by leaving out the words 'seven Senators' and inserting  in  lieu thereof Mie words 'such other Senators as may be appointed by the Senate'; and 

 Senator Gair be appointed a member of the Standing Orders Committee. 
If the Senate is to embark upon a delineation of its rights and privileges in relation to the conduct of its business, it is most appropriate, even highly important, that the Standing Orders Committee be as rep resentative as possible, and it is quite unreal that the Standing Orders Committee should not have as one of its members a representative of a significant party in the Senate. 
No. That does not specify that  Senator Gair  should be appointed to the Committee. It merely says that there should be an additional senator on the Committee. After all, the Standing Orders designate that the Opposition and the Government shall be represented on the Standing Orders Committee. We are asking specifically that  Senator Gair,  representing the Democratic Labor Party, be appointed to the Committee. It is not merely a question of increasing the number of members by one; it is a question of increasing the number by a specified one with reference to a particular party. I understand there has been an objection to that proposal. To me it is quite unreal and quite beyond understanding that the Standing Orders Committee would be affected by the intervention of anybody or by the disposition of any honourable senator. 
The Committee should be as embracing and as representative as possible. The DLP has 5 senators out of a total complement of 60. It represents a substantial portion of the national electorate. It speaks for a substantial portion of the Australian people. It plays its part in discussions on the deliberations of the Committee. Therefore I think that it should be represented honestly, fairly and adequately on the Committee. I commend the motion standing in my name and I hope that it is resolved by the Senate as soon as possible. I leave it at that, but I do rely on the good judgment and the proper disposition of honourable senators to see that the position is rectified as soon as possible. If the Standing Orders Committee is to embark upon a delineation of its powers and a reconsideration of the Standing Orders, we should ensure that the body which carries out that function will be as representative as possible. 
I was very interested in  Senator Murphy's  observation, with which I agree, that the Privileges Committee in its deliberations should assimilate itself with the procedures of a judicial tribunal. That is a proposition with which I agree. We are dealing with very precious things, with the rights and liberties of people. A body which is not a judicial body by creation but which is operating judicially should, when it is so acting, as far as possible assimilate its procedures to those of a judicial tribunal. That is the proposition I, advanced in the Senate last year when I attempted to have revoked the punishment imposed on 2 journalists who had not been given an opportunity, in terms of judicial procedures, to show cause why they should not be punished. On that occasion the rest of the Senate, including honourable senators on my right and  Senator Murphy,  voted against my proposition. 
 Senator Murphy  may not have been here. The argument advanced against my proposition on that occasion was that I was over-precious in trying to discover a resemblance between the procedures of the Senate sitting judicially and a judicial tribunal properly constituted and called by that term. Yet tonight it is suggested that the Privileges Committee should operate along judicial lines as far as possible' That was all I asked for on the previous occasion. I do not know why my proposition was not accepted on that occasion. On the facts presented on that occasion, I do think there was a denial of natural justice. My proposition was denied by those who now put forward exactly the same proposition. On that occasion  Senator Greenwood,  in a very explicit and detailed examination in response to my presentation, pointed out that sometimes the House of Commons operated, as I suggested on that occasion the Senate should, along different lines. I think that if he were to address himself to the proposition tonight, as J am now, possibly he would re-present that proposition. I cannot understand why the Opposition should take this stand now when in a particular case the very sensitive matter of natural justice, in my connotation, was being attacked and assailed. On that occasion I was not supported. If the view now is that the Senate should have proceeded judicially, and that the Committee of the Senate should have proceeded judicially, I do hope that in future guide lines will be laid down so that people in a similar position will get the protection that was denied these individuals on that occasion. I think that these gentlemen are now entitled to be very concerned that apparently they were judged on that occasion on principles different from those now being enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  Yet the vote was against my motion and them on that occasion. 
I wish to make one reference, because it is very relevant, to the protection of witnesses and the privilege generally afforded to those who appear before committees. I refer to standing order 308 in its original form. It stated: 
The evidence taken by any Select Committee of the Senate and documents presented to such Committee, which have not been reported to the Senate, shall not be disclosed or published by any member of such Committee, or by any other person. 
That standing order was amended on 7th April 1970. The amended standing order reads: 
The evidence taken by any Select Committee of the Senate and documents presented to such Committee, which have not been reported to the Senate, shall not, unless authorised by the Senate or the Committee, be disclosed or published by any member of such Committee, or by any other person. 
I can see the basis for the new form of that standing order. What I am unable to see is this: If, for example, a committee should decide that certain evidence should not be published and if an individual member of that committee, thinking that the matter should be published, refers it to the Senate, by way of appeal as it were, the Senate is asked to sit in judgment on the decision of the committee. On what will the Senate base its judgment? It has not the transcript of the proceedings before the committee, the evidence or anything else. It is asked to make an appellate judgment on a matter in relation to which it is denied the material on which a judgment can be based. Is there any way in which that standing order can be operated? How would the Senate operate in those conditions? If a member of a committee says: 'I think certain evidence given before the committee should be published', the Senate would have to ask: 'What evidence?' The member of the committee would say: T am not allowed to tell, but I am asking the Senate to form an opinion and to say that it should be published'. How could the Senate possibly make  a  judgment on the matter? 
It may have been altered but I am sure the honourable senator will see how fatuous it is to attempt to give the Senate the opportunity of making a judgment when it does not have before it the materia] on which to make a judgment. How could the honourable senator, whom I know directs his mind calmly to many matters which involve the process of judicial definition, make a judgment in those circumstances? 
How could the facts be before the Senate? It is an offence to publish the material unless directed by the Committee or by the Senate. The committee has said that the material is not to be published. That is the first prohibition. The Senate can override the decision of the committee, but the Senate has no material on which it can consider the matter. Can anybody tell me exactly how that standing order will be operated? When the standing order was to be amended I did intend to move an amendment, but unfortunately I was not in the chamber when the standing order was dealt with. It went through at great speed, almost like lightning, due to other business falling away. I was not able to put my proposition. 1 seek the opportunity to do it now. I would be interested to hear the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  or the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  They might assist me because my approach to this might be inaccurate. I am unable to see how the Senate, vested with this power, could possibly exercise it. The Senate is asked to overrule a decision of a committee when the evidence on which it could make a decision is denied to it. How is that to be done? Obviously this is another matter which should come before the Standing Orders Committee for review. A further rewrite of standing order 308 is desirable and is called for quite explicitly and quite definitely. 
I repeat that the DLP is not represented on the Standing Orders Committee. I hope that the Government will give me the opportunity to move the motion standing in my name so that if there is to be a review of the Standing Orders in any way the Senate, in its most representative capacity and representing all parties, should through that Committee be able to give the matter the scrutiny which it deserves and which is called for. 
I feel that I must comment on the proposition suggested by  Senator Cavanagh.  This is what he is propounding: He says that if a member of the committee feels that evidence, the disclosure of which has been forbidden by a committee, should be published he. comes into the Senate and says: lt is my opinion that the evidence in relation to John Brown given before this committee should in fact be published. I ask the Senate's ratification of my opinion.' The Senate may have a totally different opinion, but it has no evidence on which to form an opinion. Is the Senate then to accept  Senator Cavanagh's  opinion or otherwise? That would be anything but a way in which the body asked to make a decision could possibly operate. Another member of the committee may say that he thinks the evidence should be published or should not be published - expressing an opinion differing from that of  Senator Cavanagh.  Should the Senate endorse his opinion, sight unseen, or endorse  Senator Cavanagh's  opinion, sight unseen? With respect to  Senator Cavanagh,  it is a proposition that is unworthy of the processes he usually brings to the consideration of questions such as this. 

 Senator Cavanagh may form his opinion which he brings to the Senate on the evidence he has heard or seen in examination. He may say, 'In my opinion, this evidence should be made public'. The Senate is asked to endorse or not to endorse that opinion in the total absence of the documentation of the evidence on which he formed his opinion. In other words,  Senator Cavanagh  is saying that the Senate can take his opinion or reject it, on his say-so. That would be a totally unacceptable proposition. I am sure that on reflection even  Senator Cavanagh  will not continue to propound it. There is only one way that in justice and fairness the matter can be resolved. It may involve the liberties and rights of citizens of this country. If the Senate is to make a final deliberative decision on a matter that might effect the. liberty or the good name of any person appearing before or party to a proceeding before a committee, it must have the evidence before it so that it can make that deliberative decision. I cannot see in standing . order 308 where that opportunity is provided to the Senate. For the process that  Senator Cavanagh  advances to be the one on which the Senate would rest in such a serious matter is an idea that is totally incomprehensible to me. I am sure it would be totally unacceptable to the Senate or any person who has regard for the ordinary concept of civil individual rights. 

 Senator Brown, do you wish to speak? 

 Senator CAVANAGH (9.18)- I thought I had completed the clarification until it was confused again by  Senator Byrne.  This necessitates my reclarifying the matter at the present time. This involves the question of why we permit publication of something we do not know about. I say that that never happened except because of circumstances in which the Standing Orders conflicted with the law. It cannot be conceived by  Senator Byrne  that the Senate should make a decision on an opinion. Of course, we are doing that every sitting day. I may say, 'In my opinion, the Bill is wrong and it should be amended in clause 6. The Australian Labor Party says it should be amended' - because of one reason or another. A member will come before the Committee of the Whole and will say that in his opinion the evidence is so grave and affects so much the public interest of Australia that it should be published. Then we will decide whether the evidence of companies defrauding, etc., is of such public importance that it should be published. The Senate forms its opinion whether it agrees that it is of such importance that it should be published or whether it does not agree. 
That is the whole question - whether the evidence is of public importance. That is the whole basis upon which we work in the Senate and it is nothing unusual. I now turn to the question that is related to the recommendation the Committee is bringing down. Again, the recommendation is of some protection to witnesses. 
Perhaps 'he few remarks that 1 propose to make should have been made in the debate on the second reading, but I was not here. I merely say that last week the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  was in Brisbane where he was to meet with practising members of the Queensland Bar. He did this and very valuable consultations took place. Those distinguished gentlemen raised matters which indicated a concern as to the contents of the Bill. They welcomed the proposal which the Attorney has now placed before this chamber that the Bill should be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I do not believe that the reference should be in any particular formal sense; it should be rather to give the committee an opportunity to consult - nor to call evidence or interrogate witnesses - the learned gentlemen who propounded the report from which the evidence code emerges. It would have the opportunity also to consult members of the private Bar and of the Law Councils of Australia. This could be fruitful and it is a very sane and wise way to approach this important matter. What happens here could become an evidentiary code for the whole of Australia, including the States. Therefore it is vital that it be considered now in 'he best atmosphere possible and given the greatest possible examination. I welcome the approach now proposed by the Attorney-General. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In the case of an attempt by another company to take over an Australian domestic airline operator, what general authority resides in the Department of Civil Aviation or the Minister to affect the outcome of such a manoeuvre? What, if any, approval, permission or consent is required from the Department or the Minister to the transfer of the operating licence, the hypothecation of contracts, the transfer of assets, the transfer of a franchise or licence and the use of airport facilities? Does the Department require any proof of administrative and technical competence in the prospective new operator? If the Minister is not in an immediate position to answer these questions will he prepare and lay down a paper detailing the role which the Department, or the Minister is, by law, required to play or may play by the exercise of departmental or ministerial discretion? 
I move: 
That  Senator Gair  be appointed to All the vacancy on the Standing Orders Committee. 
Honourable senators will recollect that recently the report presented by the Standing Orders Committee recommended the increase of the personnel of the Committee by one. I think that this was in contemplation that the Australian Democratic Labor Party might well fill, or should fill, that vacancy. Honourable senators will recall that standing in my name on the notice paper under General Business is notice No. 5 which states: 
With a view to the Standing Orders Committee being as representative as possible of the composition of the Senate at anytime, the Senate resolves that - (1) Standing Order 33 be amended by that - (1) Standing Order 33 be amended by leaving out the words 'seven senators' and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'such other senators as may be appointed by the Senate'; and 
Yes, it has. My motion continues: 

 Senator Gair 
 bs appointed a member of the Standing Orders Committee. 
That motion has never come up for discussion. lt has in fact been superseded by the decision of the Senate on the report of the Standing Orders Committee to increase the personnel by one. 
I am indebted to honourable senators. I join with  Senator Murphy  in welcoming the attitude of the Government and of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  I rise particularly to thank the Attorney- 
General for the intense personal interest and the elasticity of mind that he has displayed in his approach to this question. 
Yes. The AttorneyGeneral was in Brisbane recently and I arranged for him to meet senior members of the Bar in Queensland, including  Mr Peter  Connolly Q.C., recently  President  of the Australian Bar, 2 senior leading criminal counsel and another general counsel. I was present also. Those members of the Queensland Bar raised very important considerations as to the content of some elements in the proposed code of evidence. They were considerations which the AttorneyGeneral took very seriously and which he indicated that he would take to heart. It was obvious that this matter would require much deeper study than it had been given. With all due respect to the honourable gentlemen who comprised the committee headed by  Mr Justice  Fox, as the Attorney said, different people have different approaches. The significance of this body of evidentiary law is that it could well emerge as a standard code for Australia. That is why we must be particularly careful about it. We know that there is developing in the law a uniformity throughout the whole of Australia. This is something which is now being sought and there will definitely be a trend towards the adoption of a uniform application of codes and principles which initially are enunciated and perhaps legislated here. That is why I think that now and in the future we must be particularly careful as to what we legislate or regulate here because it is likely to flow through the whole legal system of Australia. The Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs will find that its task will be of no mean proportions. The gentlemen of the Queensland Bar to whom I have referred have indicated that they would be prepared to co-operate with the Committee, and I expect that they will do so. Perhaps they will be invited to come before the Committee and to indicate more specifically their views on certain aspects of the proposed laws of evidence. In those circumstances I think the reference to the Committee will not only be fruitful but also, in the light of the discussions which have taken place, the concern which has been expressed and the queries that have been raised as to various provisions, is essential. For those reasons I join with  Senator Murphy  in welcoming the motion proposed by  Senator Greenwood.  I thank the AttorneyGeneral for the personal interest he has shown in this matter and for his preparedness to take the steps necessary to ensure that the body of evidentiary law that emerges will be an acceptable code that could well become standard for Australia. I support the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr President, the whole approach of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to this matter has been one of complete objectivity. We wish to show no preference to either of the participants in this commercial battle. For this reason and activated by what we think is genuine national public concern and the public interest, we thought that this matter should come under not merely the scrutiny of the Government but the scrutiny of the Parliament itself. There being an appropriate body, in the form of one of the standing committees of this chamber, ready to receive such a reference and equipped administratively and in terms of its personnel, we thought that this reference should be made to that committee, namely, the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. 
The terms in which the motion has been couched indicate and, I think, reflect substantially this objectivity.  Senator Murphy  has propounded a series of amendments. We ourselves were disposed, in pursuance of this attempt not only to be but also to reassure the society that we are totally objective in our approach, to make, by leave, a small amendment to  Senator Gair's  motion in respect of sub-paragraph (a), lt would read: 
The ascertainment of the degree of nonAustralian ownership whether direct or indirect of the Issued share capital of Ansett Transport Industries. 
At a later stage  Senator Gair  will ask for leave to insert those additional words, which means that the extent of nonAustralian equity capital in Ansett Transport Industries would come under equal scrutiny with that of Thomas Nationwide Transport. That again would reflect the objectivity we would hope for in discussion, approach and reference. So' far as  Senator Murphy's  proposals are concerned, we adopt that part of his sub-paragraph (a) which refers to the financial structure of Ansett Transport Industries. 

 -Yes. Mr President. Senator Gair will be prepared to ask for  leave, if necessary, to amend his original motion to insert at the point I have indicated the words I have detailed. Our motion will then incorporate the idea embraced in  Senator Murphy's  subparagraph (a), that the reference should include investigation of Ansett Transport Industries in relation to its component of foreign equity capital. But we do not see any point in adopting the whole of sub-paragraph (a) because we feel that it is substantially embraced within paragraph 1 and other paragraphs of our original motion. 

 Senator Murphy in sub paragraph (b) refers to advantages or disadvantages to the public, and so on. We consider that our sub-paragraph (b) completely embraces that proposition. It refers to whether the exercise, if successful, might be prejudicial to the aviation industry, and what, if anything, might be done to minimise the prejudicial effects. We cannot see that  Senator Murphy's  proposition advances beyond- the point in our motion. We do not see that it adds or subtracts anything from our proposal and therefore we see no reason to substitute  Senator Murphy's  sub-paragraph 
for our sub-paragraph (c). 

 Senator Murphy's sub paragraph: (c) is in substantially the same terms as, if not in terms identical to, our sub-paragraph 
. Sub-paragraph (d) refers to the manner of the proposed takeover. This again is substantially mentioned in our subparagraph (a), in which reference is .made to the ascertainment df the degree of nonAustralian ownership, whether direct or indirect, of the issued share capital, of Thomas Nationwide Transport and the financial participation of non-Australian financial interests in the attempted takeover operation. We again feel that that area of reference is sufficiently wide, to embrace the element of concern which is felt by the Opposition and expressed in the more specific proposal embodied in  Senator Murphy's  sub-paragraph (d), and perhaps (c). Therefore we do not feel there is anything which would add substantially to our proposal, beyond the insertion of the reference to the non-Australian component of the issued share capital of Ansett Transport Industries. 
The next matter relates to television. We specifically drew (d) in the terms which honourable senators will read, having consulted the statute. We drew it in very precise terms and in a very mild manner so that in no sense could Parliament have been construed as in some authoritarian way attempting to stand over the Minister in the exercise of his discretion, but merely adding the weight of his considered opinion after investigation which might assist the Minister when he comes to the exercise of his ministerial discretion. In those circumstances it is a matter of very great moment. We therefore feel that because our sub-paragraph (d) is precise in terms of the statute and mild, we should not abandon it in favour of the proposal of  Senator Murphy. 
In respect of paragraph 2 of  Senator Murphy's  proposed amendment,  Senator Gair  indicated by interjection that the proposal it contains would normally flow from the deliberations of the Committee, no doubt as part of its investigation. In the course of examining the operative and available law and administrative procedures, suggestions would be made and I see no reason why there should be a specification of something which is normal, natural and will flow almost inevitably from the deliberations undertaken before the Committee reaches its decision. Therefore we do not find ourselves able to embrace paragraph 2 of  Senator Murphy's  proposed amendment. 
We do see that  Senator Murphy's  paragraph 7, a machinery proposition, is a salutary provision, perhaps completely necessary. It reads: 
The foregoing provisions of this resolution shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Standing Orders or in any previous resolution of the Senate. 
As an abundance of caution that suggestion might be included and at the appropriate time  Senator Gair  would ask for leave to incorporate it in his own initial motion. The attitude of the Democratic Labor Party is that we would seek leave to make first a textual amendment so that the reference to Ansett Transport Industries would be included in sub-paragraph (a) of our proposal. At the appropriate place we would add paragraph 7 of  Senator Murphy's  proposal. Other considerations might be canvassed in a more ompendious motion, but the main object is to draw national attention and to express through Parliament national concern about this matter. 
I think the terms of our original motion are sufficiently embracing, comprehensive and adequate to enable this to be done. To try to specify in too much detail might destroy the whole purpose and perhaps the chance of success of the undertaking. I am concerned at  Senator Turnbull's  observation because the Senate has expressed its concern on the question of foreign participation in the ownership of Australian resources and industry as has been said in the reference to a select committee of the Senate. That being so, it would seem to be a contradiction of the expressed will of the Senate if now, when there is a specific motion to invoke the scrutiny of the Senate, we should say: 'No, it is sufficient for the Government to scrutinise it'. The Senate has in the general field expressed its desire that the whole matter should receive the attention of the Parliament. 

 Senator Murphy's paragraph 7 rather highlights the fact that this is a matter of concern to the Senate. A general reference has been made by the Senate to one of its select committees and it seems most appropriate and completely logical that this specific reference in a more limited field should similarly find ils home within a Senate committee. I particularly do not feel in any sense that the Parliament is trespassing in any way, if 'trespassing' is at all the right word, on the powers or authority of the Executive Government. It seems to me not only a right of the Senate but a duty to refer this matter to a standing committee. 
I was also intrigued by  Senator Turnbull's  confidence in leaving this matter in the hands of the Government because, as I understood him, he indicated that the Government is sympathetic to the Ansett complex. Therefore he is prepared to leave the decision on this matter to a government which he indicates is partisan in its approach. 
Quite incorrect, but that would be the senator's disposition. That being his disposition, it seems to me that it would be much more logical for him to say we have the warrant as a Parliament to look at this matter, and not with the partisanship of the Government which he alleges and I do not acknowledge towards Ansett Transport Industries. For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party will take a stand on  Senator Murphy's  proposal in the terms and manner I have indicated. 
I wish to make one more observation to the Minister. A very severe time limit has been laid upon the Committee in which to present its report. In the meantime, no doubt, there will be great activity at the commercial level and in inter-company manoeuvres. Obviously the Government therefore will be called upon - perhaps quickly - to exercise discretions, to issue permits, to transfer authorities or, in some way, to translate or sign contracts. We do not think that the Government should proceed to do such things - unless there is an inevitability about the situation and it is impossible for the Government to do otherwise - while the Committee is deliberating and before the Committee has brought in its report. I do not think that there should be any precipitate action by the Government. Such a proposition could not be embodied in the motion. It is also not a matter to which the Committee could give its mind or attention. But I do feel that the Minister should be invited to indicate whether he will await the deliberations and the decisions of the Committee before he issues the necessary transfer licences or permits or in any way assists, as the Government will be required to assist, the execution of this manoeuvre and the finalisation of the ownership of the company concerned. It is for those reasons that the Democratic Labor Party has taken the stand I have indicated on the proposed amendments. My Party adheres substantially to its motion and it will seek leave at an appropriate time to make the textual amendments to which I have drawn attention. 
The debate which has been initiated by the Australian Democratic Labor Party on this very important matter has resulted in speeches being addressed to the Senate chamber by Government supporters and supporters of the Opposition. The approach of the Government on this matter has been one of cairn consideration. While not being prepared to accept the Democratic Labor Party's propositions, the Government has attempted to analyse them. This approach has been adopted by  Senator Cotton, Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae.  While  Senator Rae  can find merit in the general attitude and disposition which supports the presentation of this motion he can also find in it possibilities and implications that would be, to his mind, undesirable and which have not been plumbed in sufficient depth to allow him to support the motion. My colleagues and I respect that approach to the debate on this matter. 
From the other side of the chamber - from the Australian Labor Party - on a matter which should be completely nonpolitical we have heard nothing but an intemperate attack on the good will, the good faith and the integrity of the Democratic Labor Party in bringing forward this matter. The Australian Labor Party is not able to, nor does it, disagree with the substance of the proposition or what is intended by the motion. Because the Australian Labor Party cannot say that the Democratic Labor Party is wrong, it says that the Democratic Labor Party is right but for the wrong reason. In other words, the Australian Labor Party is suggesting that the Democratic Labor Party is advancing this motion purely for political purposes and not having in mind any honesty of purpose or any real intent to handle the problem at issue. The Democratic Labor Party has been more interested in this matter than in any other group in the Parliament and it has been interested for a longer time. An examination of the record of my Party in this chamber over the last few years will reveal that this matter has been under the constant scrutiny and attention of the Democratic Labor Party. lt is all right for the Australian Labor Party to ask why the Democratic Labor Party moved today and not before. My reply to that question is: Why did the Australian Labor Party, as the official Opposition, not move first on this matter? 1 go back to 16th September 1969 . when the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  presented in another place the guidelines for foreign investment. They were almost simultaneously read in this place. The guidelines laid down on that occasion embraced a takeover code in most specific terms detailed by the then Prime Minister. After  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson had adressed himself to those propositions the adjournment of the debate was taken by the late  Senator Cohen.  In other words, at that point the Australian Labor Party had the carriage of the matter if it wanted to investigate it or examine it in depth. From then on nothing was done about it. To my knowledge this matter has not been debated by the Australian Labor Party since then. The official Opposition is so recreant to its trust, to the responsibility which it assumes and to the position and prestige which it claims in this Parliament that a matter which it now says is of vital national importance has not attracted its attention. 
I can understand the embarrassment, concern and chagrin of members of the Opposition when the Democratic Labor Party takes the initiative and captures the imagination and support of the whole Australian nation in drawing national attention and parliamentary attention to this important matter. I can well understand the embarrassment of the Australian Labor Party because in this matter, as in so many other matters, the Democratic Labor Party has once again taken the initiative. It was my Party which moved for the appointment of a Senate select committee to consider the whole question of the foreign control of Australian assets. It was my Party which made particular reference of the Ansett-TNT takeover proposition to the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade. It is my Party which now brings this matter up and wants it to receive immediate attention. 
Having disposed of the Australian Labor Party, which is completely in the rearguard of parliamentary initiative in this country, I turn now to the more important matters raised by  Senator Rae.  The action the Democratic Labor Party seeks will be more or less in the nature of an interim injunction. When one fears that a cetain situation is going to develop, one moves in quickly with some sort of a stay order until the matter can be examined in depth. When this matter was first raised and started to be a matter of public concern and when it attracted the attention of the Democratic Labor Party certain economic conditions were prevailing which, while they gave rise to concern that the present position might develop, were not of the acute nature which is now so apparent and so evident. Things have changed. With the rate of interest as it is in Australia today and with the exchange rate as it is there is every inducement and every opportunity for the circumvention of any action we may take to try and prohibit Australian assets passing into foreign control. That being the position there will be people who will try to take advantage of the situation. 
The announcements have been made on this subject. First of all there was the announcement of the appointment of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. It is quite probable that that committee will in due course bring down firm guidelines to govern this matter. Those who are interested in coming in before the door is closed are likely to move now. We know that there is always great parliamentary reluctance to legislate retrospectively to handle a situation. The second announcement was by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  that he proposes to lay down a White Paper on this matter. That again is going to alert those who want to circumvent any lines of economic and financial discipline that they must move now if they are going to move at all. 
We have had recent manifestations of this type of thing. The matter which was raised publicly by  Senator Kane  in this place of the attempted takeover by the International Telephone anl Telegraph Corporation of one of the big food complexes in Australia is that type of exercise. When the alert has been given and the red signal is being raised it is likely that there will be a spate of this type of approach. It is therefore vital that the Parliament should at this time move as it can to try to impede those who in due time would circumvent what we have in mind. 
 Ultimately it comes down to the same thing. If one purchases the share capital of a company to the point where one controls it surely that is a takeover. It is a matter of technical terms, but ultimately such action can result, in the complete ownership and control of the beneficial interests of a company. Whether it is a raid on the share market which results in virtually complete ownership and control or a firm takeover offer in the technical sense it amounts to the same thing in the ultimate. It is in an endeavour to try to stifle this type of procedure and to impede this type of assault on Australian resources that the Demoncratic Labor Party is moving on this occasion. The motion contemplates, to use the term  Senator Kane  used, a 'complete freeze'. 
I do not want  Senator Rae  or the Government to examine this motion in the most technical terms. It is an intimation by the Senate of concern in principle. When it comes to a clear definition of what is meant by a 'public company' or other terms like that, I suppose a motion of this nature is somewhat ineffective and inadequate. But that is not the purport of an urgency motion of this character. The more specific delineation will come at a later stage. The intention of this motion is to draw the attention of the nation and the Parliament to the fact that the resources held by public companies in Australia are now vulnerable and there is a great possibility that they will be captured in a large measure by interests outside of Australia. I do not think one would expect the terms to be technically specific in this type of motion. It is for that reason that we have not sought for them to be technically specific. If the terms of this motion are considered by the Government to be rather harsh in that they contemplate a complete freeze of all proposals of this nature by prohibition, interruption or impediment, I ask the Government to examine - the Senate having intimated its deep and urgent concern in this field - as the motion contemplates, whether the appropriate legislative and administrative machinery is available or, if it is unavailable, whether it can be created. Once it is created, if it does not freeze the attempted takeover of all companies, at least it should give the power and authority to handle particular cases where malice is involved. That is an interpretation of our proposal which is available. We put the matter at the highest level and we will receive the support of the Australian Labor Party at that level. If the Government opposes this proposal and is not prepared to abide by the concern expressed in the Senate, in the fullest terms, at least it should look at particular cases, examine the legislative and administrative machinery to see what can be done and then operate in relation to those particular cases. That is an appeal, and I think  Senator Georges  at least would agree that we are entitled to ask the Government, if it does not agree with this proposal, to do what I have outlined. This debate has gone on for some hours. I merely say that the Democratic Labor Party has been interested in this matter for a long time. The allegations that this is some sort of a political manoeuvre to advance the candidature of a candidate or to obtain public acclaim are wrong. I draw the attention of the Senate to a speech I made on the Banks (Shareholdings) Bill 1971 which appears at page 261 of the Senate Hansard. I said in that speech: 
This is an important Bill dealing with a matter which has been raised by my Party and by me in the Senate in more recent times. 
My comment was sparked by the suggestion that money from Hong Kong would be used to obtain ownership and control of a hire purchase empire in Australia. This would have been an extraordinarily dangerous situation because the finance and economic empire is on a parallel with the banking empire, and therefore the credit resources of Australian could be vulnerable to external attack. I went on to say that the Democratic Labor Party had been interested in this matter for a considerable time, and I continued: 
I know that it has been suggested that it is very difficult to take action in this area, but a few years ago the Democratic Labor Party in Queensland at a State conference put forward the suggestion that there should be a gradation in scales of company tax so that as a public company had more or less Australian participating equity, so the rate of company tax should vary. In other words, if a public company had SO per cent of Australian equity the company tax would be X per cent. On the other hand, if the Australian equity fell to 35 per cent the company tax would go up. . . . 
So a long time ago there was evidence of the Democratic Labor Party's aversion to this problem in a most practical way with a very practical solution. It is an indication of our continuing concern in relation to this matter. We have raised it all along. We have taken the only practical steps so far taken. When  Mr Gorton  was Prime Minister the Government knew of (his problem and did nothing; the Australian Labor Party knew nothing and did nothing; we knew and we acted. I commend this proposal to the Senate. In order that a vote may be taken on this matter, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the  question  be now put. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
In the case of an attempted take-over of an Australian domestic airline operator by another company, what general authority, resides in the Department of Civil Aviation or the Minister, to affect the outcome of such a manoeuvre. 
What, if any, approval, permission or assent is required from the Department, or the Minister, to (a) the transfer of the operator's licence, (b) the hypothecation of contract, (c) the transfer of assets and (d) the transfer of franchises, licences, etc.. for the use of airport facilities. 
Does the Department require any proof of administrative or economic competence in the prospective new operator. 
Will the Minister prepare and lay down a paper detailing the role which the Department or the Minister is by law required to play, and also the roles they may play by the exercise of Departmental or Ministerial discretion. 

 Senator COTTON- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Thereis no specific provision in the Air Navigation Regulations or any other legislation administered by the Department of Civil Aviation which directly, empowers the Minister or the Department to prevent the takeover of a company holding an airline licence under the Regulations. 
(a) In the normal case of a takeover of a company there is no change in the legal entity which holds the licence, but only a change in the persons holding shares in or controlling that company. Airline licences issued under the Regulations are not transferable and, inthe case of a company takeover, the licence would normally remain in the name of the company taken over. 
The reference to hypothecation of contract is not clearly understood in this context. 
No permission or consent of the Department of Civil Aviation or the Minister is required in the case of the transfer of assets of an airline, except in the case of TAA. Section 21 of the Australian National Airlines Act requires the approval of the Minister for the disposal of any property right or privilege by the Commission where its value exceeds $100,000. 
Leases of land and buildings within airports to airlines and other tenants usually contain a convenant by the tenant that he will not sub-let, assign or part with the possession of the premises, except with the consent of the Director-General of Civil Aviation. The legislation in some States provides that such a clause must be read as meaning that the consent of the landlord cannot be unreasonably withheld. Airline operators are entitled to the use of other airport facilities, such as runways, taxi-ways and navigational aids, by virtue of their payment of air navigation charges and they cannot be denied the use of those facilities. 
In relation to the issue of an operating licence, the Director-General is required to take into account the following matters: 
Interstate Operations - 
Whether the applicant has complied with or has established that he is capable of complying with the provisions of the Air Navigation Regulations, or any direction or order given or made under those Regulations, relating to the safety of operations: 
Intrastate Operations - 
Matters concerned with the safety, regularity and efficiency of air navigation and to no other matters; 
Operations within, to, or from a Territory, 
Whether the applicant has complied with such conditions as the Director-General considers necessary. 
In considering the matters referred to above, the Director-General would have regard to the administrative or economic competence of the prospective operator insofar as this impinged on these matters. 
The matter of Ministerial and departmental discretions is a far-reaching subject which would require considerable research and time to study in detail. Unfortunately, the resources needed to engage in an investigation of this nature cannot be made available at present, but the request will be borne in mind and considered for implementation when the opportunity occurs. 
I think that the point which has been made by  Senator Cavanagh  has tremendous validity. After all, this is not a matter to be lightly dismissed. The right of a citizen to petition the Parliament is a very precious right and it is a right which must not be eroded. The only channel from the ordinary elector direct to the Parliament is by way of a petition through his parliamentary representative. He may wish his petition to be brought to the attention of the Parliament in a particular way, through a particular member and at a particular time, insofar as those things are practicable. Therefore, I think that a member of Parliament should be identified with the petition and the petition should be particularly and specially identifiable with the ordinary functioning of the Parliament. I know that reconciliation must be found between the preservation of the electors' rights and the smooth, efficient and effective functioning of this chamber. I think that that reconciliation might well be found in the formula which has just been suggested. The one proposed by  Senator Cavanagh  has, I feel, a lot to commend it. With due respect to your report and suggestion.  Mr President,  I think that after further consideration you may well see the merit of  Senator Cavanagh's  proposal which I personally would bc prepared to support. 
I agree with  Senator Murphy  that an early opportunity should be afforded to discuss the report. From a quick glance at the conclusions and recommendations of the Committee ii appears that the Parliament ought to give early scrutiny and perhaps the Government should give early attention to some of the proposals and recommendations. Presentation of the report in such a short time is much to the credit of the members of the committee concerned. Standing committees were created expressly for this sort of purpose. This Committee has provided a classic example of the manner in which the 2 types of committee, the standing committee and the select committee, should operate. This was a reference within a short compass of time, and as the subject matter was appropriate for a standing committee it was so referred. One of the recommendations is that a wider examination of some aspects of this problem be referred to the Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. That is an appropriate illustration of the harmony existing between the 2 types of committees. 
As there are matters involved which call for early parliamentary scrutiny and attention, it would be appropriate if an opportunity were given for an early debate on this subject, more particularly as another existent committee may take it upon itself to examine further aspects of the matter. Perhaps the opinion of the Senate should be discovered quickly as to whether this is an appropriate course. This should be done while the committee is still in existence and is embarking on its wider investigations. I support  Senator Murphy's  suggestions. 
The matter before us is of extreme importance and of very great urgency. For some time now all honourable senators have been concerned about the emergence of disastrous pockets of poverty in the increasingly affluent Australian society. It has been a matter not merely of political concern; it has been a matter also of personal concern. I know that individual senators feel very strongly about it. That a motion of this kind should be moved is appropriate and, in certain circumstances, it should attract the support of the Senate. What  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said is correct. To create a select committee to which the matter would be referred would be to impose a very heavy burden on the body of senators already available for committee work. 
The Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control has recently commenced operations. Its work will be particularly heavy. It will take a considerable time to complete its hearings. Standing committees and other committees are already occupying all the time that honourable senators are able to give to them. There is still a long queue of subjects of a very embracing character before many committees. I was one honourable senator who queried the desirability of referring certain types of matters to standing committees. I regarded the committees as a repository for references of a limited character, such as the proposed take-over of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd. You,  Mr Deputy President,  are  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade, which is dealing with that matter. I thought that was the appropriate type of topic to refer to a standing committee. In the wisdom of honourable senators many matters of a major and extensive character have been referred to the committees. 
The motion seeks to refer the matter of poverty to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. That Committee already has references on the most important subjects of repatriation and the introduction of a national superannuation scheme,  lt  also has a reference concerning certain petitions. Some of the honourable senators who serve on standing committees would be required to serve on a select committee, if it were established, to deal with this matter. A particular type of inquiry is now proposed. It would scan many aspects of Australian life. A tremendous economic investigation would necessarily be involved. That would require technical, sociological and academic contributions. There would have to be an onsite inspection of areas in which the poorer people in the community live. The inquiry would have to extend into their housing accommodation, their social ambitions and their acceptance or resentment of the conditions under which they live. I could imagine that the committee would not sit in the splendid isolation of Canberra but would be required to move from place to place and to have protracted and numerous investigations on-site in relation to the physical conditions in which people live. That would cover an enormous spread of time. As this is a matter of acute urgency, I think that not only would that course be inappropriate but rather it would defeat the purpose of the inquiry if the matter were to be referred to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare in these circumstances. If no other alternative were available, my Party and I would most certainly support the motion. If no other investigation were contemplated or available, I think the matter should be referred to the Committee, irrespective of all the disabilities to which I have referred, such as the additional burden on senators and the availability of individual senators. 

 Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson has drawn the attention of the Senate to a statement made by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in the House of Representatives, in the presence of the Cabinet and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  that the Government is aware of the situation and that the Minister for 
Social Services is making or has made certain submissions to the Prime Minister for an immediate inquiry into the subject of poverty. With due respect to the work of honourable senators, a body of investigators, adequately structured in personnel, adequately supported by technical assistants and without the commitments that honourable senators necessarily have politically and in the sphere of parliament, would be much better equipped to examine this matter with the speed and in the depth which is now required than would a Senate committee. I do not know what form of inquiry is contemplated by the Minister or what form would be accepted by the Government. By interjection,  Senator Douglas  McClelland indicated his concern that perhaps such an inquiry would not be a public inquiry. Would I be correct in saying that? 
 I think that is a valid point. In view of the announced intention of the Minister for Social Services, which apparently is finding acceptance in the Government, I think we can anticipate a fairly early announcement on whether the Government is prepared to do anything or whether it proposes to do anything. No doubt the Government will indicate in more specific terms what it intends to do. Therefore, I think it would be inappropriate for the Senate, on such a long standing motion as this, to create a select committee on the eve of an announcement that another body of investigation is apparently in early contemplation. I think there should be an investigation. If nothing else were available we would support the motion but I think the sensible thing to do in the circumstances - and I will move accordingly in the course of my submission - is to adjourn the motion. 
-It should be adjourned, but not indefinitely to a time after this session of the Parliament concludes. My suggestion is that the motion should be adjourned and if that suggestion is supported, a motion for resumption of the debate to be made an order of the day for 25th May could be moved. That is the next available Thursday. In that time the Government may have announced its intentions. 
Thank you,  Senator Murphy.  That is the attitude of my Party. If a motion is moved that the debate be adjourned and the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for Thursday 25th May in the anticipation that in the meantime the Government will come forward with a specific announcement as to the creation of body of inquiry, its nature and the terms and conditions under which it will operate, we will be content. 
Yes. If the course I have proposed is not satisfactory to this chamber, if it is too restricted, too limited or too circumscribed, it will still be available within the sitting times of this session on Thursday 25th May to ask that the matter be brought forward again so that the Senate can resolve whether in the circumstances it should not proceed to create a select committee. If  Senator Murphy  is disposed to move in the direction I have suggested we are prepared to agree. That is our proposal. 
The adjournment of the debate on this motion stands in my name. The motion calls for an extensive inquiry by the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment, a Committee which has received some attention tonight because of the heavy work load it now bears. In view of the concern expressed in the Senate during an earlier debate, it appears to me that it would be somewhat illogical if we were to proceed and present the Committee with this additional burden of investigation. I know that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  is solicitous in this field and that the motion has been on the Notice Paper for some time. We of the Democratic Labor Party also are solicitous in this field. I propose to suggest a certain course in which  Senator Murphy  may be. able to concur. I had a word with him about it. Rather than have this matter remain on the Notice Paper or, alternatively, have it referred in some sort of theoretical fashion so that it stands in the long queue of matters awaiting attention by the Committee, I propose that the motion be discharged from the Notice Paper at this stage, with an intimation that if  Senator Murphy  wishes to bring it on again during the next session he will be able to do so, and that the Senate will consider debating it earlier than if it merely came back to us in the ordinary course of events. 
I commend that course to  Senator Murphy.  It would clear the business sheet and would prevent the mere registration of this matter as another subject of inquiry by the Committee. This course would allow us still to underline our concern about the proposition. I think that course would be satisfactory to all honourable senators. 
 I move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should establish immediately a National Rural Finance Corporation as a means of providing long-term low-interest loans and the funding and re-financing of rural debts, including an interest-free and non-redemption period for the debts so funded. 
I had not anticipated that this motion would come forward for debate in view of the important matters preceding it on the notice paper. I refer to the 2 motions for the creation of select committees to which important matters were to be referred. Those 2 motions have been stood oven This motion is not of the character of those 2; it merely calls for the Government to consider the establishment of a financial institution structured to handle the situation of rural industries. For a long time there has been a great deal of concern in the rural sector because the structure of the financial system and the banking overdraft system have not been totally equipped to meet the financial commitments and the immediate money needs of various rural industries. The Democratic Labor Party has been giving consideration for a long time to this aspect of the whole question, realising just how parlous has been the developing conditions of the rural industries. 
I made those introductory remarks merely to show that we regard this matter as important. I did not know that this motion would be called on so quickly and honourable senators may not be equipped tonight - I am in the same position - to deal with it at great length and in the depth required. I draw attention to the fact that it is an urgent matter. I wish to impress that view upon the Government. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
It is not my intention to intrude at length in this debate at this stage. I think it would be much more appropriate for the report of the Joint Select Committee cn Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legis lation to be discussed at a later time when honourable senators have had an opportunity to study it. I rise merely because I had occasion to present a minority report on a certain segment of the Committee's investigations. My minority report appears at page 51 of the committee's report and it concerns a dissent to paragraphs 164 to 167 of recommendation 17. The dissent relates to the question of the eligibility of unmarried male and female members of the Services to pass on rights to others on the same basis as married male personnel can pass them on to their dependants under the existing scheme and will be able to do under the proposed scheme. 
I have attempted to canvass the reasons that have prompted me to dissent from that recommendation. One factor I have pointed to is that the Commonwealth Actuary has advised that according to his computations, no additional cost would be involved in the proposed scheme. He has worked on the basis that all personnel are in fact married and will pass on rights in succession to their survivors. As I remarked at the end of my dissenting report, I hope that the fact that I am myself unmarried might be accepted as promoting my interest rather than persuading my judgment. I think that this is a matter of very considerable concern in a period when we are emerging into equality of the sexes. In terms of work value and in general social terms, I think it is important that, where we get the opportunity of projecting this concern in specific legislation or in the implementation of policy, we should attempt to do so. I subscribe to the whole of the report with the exception of that dissent. I commend the report, and my own dissent in this area, to the attention and solicitude of :he Senate. 
 I associate the Australian Democratic Labor Party with the sentiments that have been expressed by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  in conveying the sympathy of this chamber to those who survive  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Windsor and in presenting an address to  Her  Majesty the Queen expressing our sorrow as a chamber of this legislature. 
The Duke of Windsor was one of the outstanding figures of our time. He was called to high office and that involves assuming tremendous responsibility. We remember him in his country as one who came here when a very young man, entrusted again with high responsibility. Those of our older generations will recall with a great deal qf pleasure his vivacity, his elan and his identification with those parts of Australa which he had the opportunity of visiting during his journey to this land in the 1920s. He was a man who carried out his duties with gaiety and with those qualities that endeared him to people and which were capable of engendering tremendous affection. 

 His death marks the passing of an era, with changes in the British Commonwealth as country after country assumes a different situation in relation to the mother country. With the passing of the Duke of Windsor, we see the end of a period which was marked by the great glory of the British Empire. Therefore we can look back with nostalgia on his life and on his participation in the affairs of his country and of the British Commonwealth. On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, I join in the expressions of sympathy to the Duchess of Windsor, who survives the Duke, and the members of the Royal Family. We join in the motion for the address to  Her  Majesty the Queen. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That (here be referred to the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, the following matters: 
The means by which 'isolated school chil dren', that is, children who for geographic reasons have no reasonable daily access to an appropriate school - 
can be afforded equal educational opportunity with other children not so situated; and 
can be provided with an education suitable to the children's talents and interest, which will equip them . for employment in the occupational field which they select; 
The means by which these disabilities can be overcome whether by an extension and deployment more widely of schools or institutes of tertiary education, the provision of financial aid to such children or otherwise. 
At this late stage of the sitting of the Senate in this sessional period it is not my intention to speak at length. The Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill is most important for Queensland and Australia. Although the Institute of Marine Science will be established on the far north coast of Queensland it will not be an institute which will be confined purely to an examination of the marine life in that area. But that will be one of its prime concerns because of the richness of that life and its variety and because of oceanographic and other features. This Institute will be available for marine research for the whole of Australia. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  in his second reading speech drew attention to the fact that marine scientists may resort there in general for investigations and to conduct research. Therefore this is a matter of national import. We in Queensland are naturally pleased and proud that the Institute has been set up in our State. Northern Queensland is particularly complimented that the Institute has been set up in that part of the Commonwealth. At this time, in general terms, Australia is carrying out the very important job of making an assessment of its national resources. 
In this chamber various committees have been established to investigate many aspects of Australian political and administrative life. These committees are moving in the direction of establishing what is required by Australia for Australians at this period of our history. Committees are examining our social services programme, our financial programme, our financial structures, our legal and constitutional relations, domestic law and matters of that character. Now we have a committee which is examining the ownership of Australian resources. The Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill in establishing an organisation such as this Institute of Marine Science is a Bil] which again tends in the same direction. It is to establish an body which will examine the marine resources of Australia and, more particularly, this part of Australia. If we propose to plan the future of this Commonwealth as it should be planned for the next 100 years it is important that al this stage an assessment be made over all aspects of Australian life. 1 welcome this Bill, apart from its intrinsic and individual merits, as a Bill in consonance with the new national approach and the approach taken in this chamber. 
I point out that the ambit of the operations of the Institute will not only be confined to the littoral waters, the bays and estuaries, but also will reach out to examine the deep waters which lie off our coast, the fish in those waters, the flow of the currents and the tides and all those things which have an effect upon marine life and which also have a profound effect upon Australian commerce and, to some extent, its relations with other countries. We know that Austrafia has not been particularly alert in mobilising the marine resources which lie around this vast continental shelf. We know that other nations have been more alert to the possibilities and potentials here. At times we have had trouble in policing areas which are within our constitutional jurisdiction. Yet it has been rather difficult to justify some of our actions in the light of our own disinterest in these very rich resources with which others are more acquainted than we are ourselves. An Institute such as this will in part, set about to remedy the situation and give Australians an awareness of this new area of riches which surrounds the continent. We are indebted to the Interim Council which made the necessary preliminary investigations on which the legislation is founded. I am somewhat at a loss in relation to a statement contained in the 
Minister's second reading speech. Perhaps he would be good enough to give his attention to this matter for a moment. Apparently there are still matters which require investigation and recommendation. The Minister, in his second reading speech stated: 
The  Bill does not of  course  deal with the equipment which will be  essential  to the work of the Institute. The nature of that equipment is a matter for discussion and decision by the Council and the Director of the Institute; 
In the Minister's second reading speech the word 'Council' is used in 2 ways. There is to be the permanently established, final Council which will control the Institute and there is the Interim Council. 
 Yes. I was just wondering whether it is the Interim Council which is to go into the matter of equipment or whether it will be left to the Marine Council when it finally operates. If it is the former - the Interim Council - as far as I can see it is functus officio. Therefore 1 imagine that its ability to do this work has ceased and that it will go out of operation. Therefore it cannot be entrusted with the work which the Council is to do. When the Minister replies in this debate he might be kind enough to inform me of the actual position. I am delighted to see that the Institute is to co-ordinate and expand the activities of many other bodies both public and private which already operate in this field. I have had the opportunity of being at Mourilyan Harbour and seeing the investigations being carried out into the starfish and the Great Barrier Reef by dedicated marine biologists who are doing a magnificent job. But it is a job which is being done in isolation. There is nothing more difficult for an academic than to feel that he is working in intellectual isolation. But now with this Institute which is being created, a unit such as that at Mourilyan Harbour and interested private organisations will have an intellectual academic home at the James Cook University to which they can resort as one family investigating these important matters. 
The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Commonwealth Fisheries and Extension Services Division, no doubt the Queensland 
Fisheries Branch and appropriate departments in that State and, perhaps, departments in other States will contribute to and work in co-operation with the new Institute. I imagine that it has a magnificient future and opportunity to do a worthwhile job for Australia in the discovery, expansion and protection of our marine resources. I do not wish to protract this debate. I welcome the advent of this Bill. The amount of money provided is a very substantial sum. I am sure that the Institute will prove a worthwhile national investment. The Bill is welcomed enthusiastically by the people of Queensland. It will be particularly welcomed by the people of northern Queensland because, quite apart from the unit itself, it will stimulate the interest of the Australian people in northern Queensland which, geographically, is somewhat remote and where, sometimes, there is a feeling of isolation. I think that the advertence to the peed for an Institute such as this is probably some years belated. The Council has done a magnificent job. On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labour Party I express our indebtedness to the distinguished members of the Interim Council who made the necessary preliminary investigations. I am sure that they will be gratified that, substantially, their findings and recommendations are being carried into legislative effect by this Bill. I do hope that the Institute will nourish. I am sure that it will prove of immense value to Australia. 
Not formal. 

 - Mr President, I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to restrict increases in prices of certain goods and services resulting from the making of industrial agreements and for purposes connected therewith. 
lt is a sad privilege that is mine today, speaking on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to identify the members of our Party with the motion of condolence extended by the Senate to the family of the late  Sir Owen  Dixon. In the concept of all Australians and particularly in the knowledge of those who are intimate with the law. the late distinguished jurist was one of the great lawyers of the British legal jurisdiction. He was considered to bc the greatest common lawyer of his day and, as  Senator Murphy  has said, perhaps the greatest lawyer in the English speaking world. We are inclined sometimes to think of members of the judiciary as somewhat remore figures who have little other than a theoretical impact upon the history and destiny of their country. But more particularly in Australia, where we operate under a written Constitution, where we have this great problem of the separation of State and Commonwealth powers, the impact of the judiciary in determining the course of this nation has been immense and the influence of the late  Sir Owen  Dixon perhaps had no equal in the effect it had on the interpretation of the Constitution and in acquitting that Constitution to the modern Australia and to the movement of Australia into the modern world. 

 Sir Owen Dixon was not only erudite in the law; he also had a very deep affection for it. That became evident to anybody who had the privilege of appearing before him. It was a love that he transmitted to all members of the profession, lt will be one of the fondest memories of members of the Australian bar that they were privileged to know and to appear before this great jurist. The Democratic Labor Party, in common with Australia, mourns the passing of this great Australian who, in every field of national endeavour, made his contribution at a distinguished level. We extend to those who survive him our very deepest sympathy. 1 trust that the portrait of  Sir Owen  which hangs in one of the lobbies of this Parliament the only portrait I can recall hanging in these halls of a Justice of the High Court who was not at some time a member of this Parliament - will be transferred to a more public position so that those who see it and who may not know may ask who this man was. Thus the history and the story of  Sir Owen  Dixon will be more widely transmitted to the nation. I join with  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and  Senator Murphy  in extending condolences to those who survive this great man. 
I do not wish to prolong the debate, but  Senator Webster  asked me whether I could mention an instance where there had been a replacement of indigenous forest by an exotic pine plantation. My attention has been drawn to a report in the 'Canberra News' of 23rd September 1971 which stated under a heading 'Bush Replaced by Pine': 
The New South Wales Forestry Commission confirmed today it would convert 34,000 acres of bush, on the Dividing Range east of Canberra, into pine plantations. 
 The Conversion of bush in the vicinity of Palerange and Tallanganda State, Forest would take a considerable time, a spokesman for the commission said. 
The spokesman would not comment on the charge this would mean destroying the natural environment. 
In a letter to the "Canberra Times', yesterday, V and R. Routley attacked the commission's plans, saying they would create 'biological deserts'. 
They criticised the replacement , of eucalypt forest by a single exotic species which "little indigenous life could exploit. 
I suppose, :it. is. a. matter of interpretation. However, ; that : is the type of thing, with which .. we  are  concerned. . : . (;  :.,:-&gt; ut 
I direct a question to the Minister for Works. In doing so I appeal to the Minister's concern for precision and accuracy, which is traditional in this chamber. During his reply to my colleague  Senator O'Byrne  who asked a question about  His Excellency  the Governor of New South Wales,  Sir Roden  Cutler, the Minister inadvertently indicated that the question had been asked by myself. Will the Minister be good enough to indicate that it was not I who asked the question? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party approaches this Bill from a point of view of some concern. In the first place, I indicate that we support the amendment which has been moved on behalf of the Opposition by  Senator Mulvihill.  That amendment expresses an opinion of the Senate without affecting the fate of the Bill. We propose, in the Committee stage, to propound an amendment to clause 9 of the Schedule to the Bill. This will be an operative amendment and, if it is carried, it will affect the fate of the Bill. 
The question of the development of Australia's natural resources consonant with the protection of the Australian environment is becoming of tremendous significance. This type of confrontation or conflict is becoming significant in every country, but perhaps nowhere more so than in this continent where there is now this tremendous drive for the exploration, exploitation and development of our natural resources. The resources of this vast continent, which are lying substantially untapped in terms of their development, are now receiving the attention of entrepreneurs, prospectors and developers. If we do not move now to ensure the elevation of environmental concern to a very high national position, the opportunity will inevitably and irrevocably be lost. That is why with a Bill of this nature we are disposed to propound an operative amendment in terms of our concern for the preservation of the environment. 
The Democratic Labor Party takes very great pride in the fact that, although the growing interest in environmental protection is of somewhat recent origin and has certainly reached great dimensions only more recently, years ago it was the first political Party in Australia to insert in a national policy speech a programme of national conservation. This cannot be denied us. It is a concern we expressed early. We placed it among those very cherished items which naturally must be limited when writing a national policy speech, and we believe that we pioneered the national concern which is now so evident. 
In addition, the DLP, with honourable senators from other political parties in this chamber, had the pleasure and privilege of serving on 2 conservation committees of the Senate - The Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution and the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. The findings of those select committees were presented in this chamber and commended to the Government. The report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution was the subject of a resolution of this chamber, a rather unusual procedure, that it be taken into urgent consideration by the Government for early attention and action. Since then the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  has made a statement on the subject; but I should like to see a more recent statement showing what steps have been taken to implement or to adopt, or to adopt with qualifications, the recommendations of that Committee. 
With respect to  Senator Keeffe,  I do not think that would be correct. I understand that  Mr Howson  made a statement. Our recommendation was that there should be concurrent legislation and co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States to discover a national plan for the conservation of water. I believe the Senate should be informed periodically of the fate of reports of this Senate and its committees, and particularly to this report since it was the subject of a particular resolution of urgency by this chamber. I had proposed to move that the Leader of the Government in the Senate be required to report periodically on the fate of Senate committee reports, but I understand that there is a motion of that character standing in the name of the Leader of the Opposition. 
In relation to this Bill the DLP proposes that before development takes place and before softwood replanting is allowed to supplant indigenous tree growth, be it eucalypt or other indigenous forest, the matter be considered from the point of view of environmental control and protection. The amendment which I shall propose for the DLP in the committee stage of this Bill reflects decisions which were taken over a period of time and more particularly by the Federal conference of my Party in April this year. I think 1 should indicate to the Senate now the amendment we propose. 
It is clause 9 of the Schedule, which is the agreement. We shall submit that clause 9 as it now stands in the Schedule and which sets out the terms of the proposed agreement between the Commonwealth and the States should be deleted and replaced by the following clauses: 
The State shall ensure that planting during each year ls carried out efficiently and in conformity with sound forestry, environmental and financial practices. 9a.  -  The State shall ensure that natural forests shall not be cleared for planting softwoods unless the particular proposed clearing has beforehand been the subject of an environmental impact study made by an independent expert on behalf of the Australian Forestry Council and the Council after considering the report of the said study has approved the particular clearing. 
The DLP is quite conscious of the fact thai the moving of such an amendment and its acceptance by this chamber will have the effect of not allowing the Commonwealth to subscribe to the projected agreement. That agreement then in altered form would have to be resubmitted to the States, to see whether the States in concord can accept it. We are conscious of that, but we regard the matter as being so important that we consider that should be done. We are conscious of the fact that this is not now an agreement merely to be signed and ratified by the Commonwealth through legislation but that it is a projected agreement which is still in the stage of Commonwealth-State discussion though agreement has substantially been reached. The proposition we have in mind reflects the actual decisions taken by the 
Federal conference of the DLP which I shall take the liberty of reading to the Senate, since they are informative as to our thinking on this subject. We referred to the environmental crisis in Australia, and among the priorities we determined were the following: 
requiring that the presentation of an environmental impact study he a condition precedent to the approval of any development, 
the adoption of the principle that pollutors (be they Governments, manufacturers or private individuals) be responsible for the cost of cleaning up their own pollution, 
the widespread establishment of national parks and nature reserves (including historic sites) particularly - for recreational and educational purposes - along the coast and in close proximity to large centres of population, but also - and of no less importance - for scientific study, habitat for wild life and the simple preservation of wilderness and: 
the retention so far as possible of what relatively little remains of our natural forests and landscapes instead of destroying them whether in order: 
to sell wood chips abroad or 
to mine for minerals of transient value (so often for the benefit very largely of overseas investors) or 
to drown large tracts of land under the waters of uneconomic hydro-electric schemes or 
to replace natural forests by specially planted exotic forests which would better by planted on farm and grazing lands no longer economic; 
Those are the parameters which our Party considers should occupy the attention of those who are parties to redevelopment or parties to the planning of exotic forests be they of pine or some other tree type or species. 
The object of this Bill is to continue the agreement by which the Commonwealth provides money to the States for the planting of forests in order to produce reserves of timber which can be used for commercial building purposes. In that process it is found necessary to clear land, to destroy indigenous growth and sometimes to plant areas where there is no indigenous forest growth but which could be used for some other purpose, that is, a plain or undulating land not being close and growing eucalypt forest. We are concerned that this matter should receive the attention of the Parliament and that our point of view should be known, and that it should be indicated to the States that we are concerned in this. We have taken the lead, particularly in this chamber, for the protection of the environment, and the States should be told by this method that we hope that they would be parties to the incorporation within any CommonwealthState agreement on their side of this recognition of the need for environmental reference in any agreements which may he entered into for the provision of finance to supplant indigenous growth by exotic forest planting. 
Now I shall refer to more specific matters. The purpose of the first amendment is to ensure primarily that the principles which were set forward not only in our deliberations and in the decisions taken by our conference, but in the announcement by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, are observed. I think the formulation of views such as this while denying oneself the opportunity of carrying them into practical legislative and administrative operation is to be deplored - if that is to be the attitude of the Government. Secondly, our amendment emphasises the importance we attach to environmental matters in any question of redevelopment. We do not think for one moment that consideration for the environment should of necessity and inevitably surmount every other consideration. We know there must always be found that reconciliation between the legitimate need to explore natural resources and the protection of the environment and sometimes one or the other may have to be sacrificed. The important thing is that the environment shall not be disregarded, that it shall be given its due place and at least shall be a matter of concern when a judgment has to be made. 
The third matter raised in the amendment again indicates the importance we attach to environmental matters and draws attention to the fact that our Party's policy for so long has been in the forefront in drawing national attention to these matters. We understand, of course, that the development and expansion of a softwoods industry is a natural part of our national economic growth and part of our commercial operations. It does supply a national and an international need. It is part of our trade pattern. We are using the opportunities provided by our land and our climate to grow certain exotics which are marketable and we cannot afford to overlook the opportunity. Therefore, we do not in any sense set our face against the development and use of land for the planting of exotics for this purpose. But again it is a question of finding the proper balance and the wanton laying aside of concern for the indigenous timbers cannot be accepted or tolerated just because of the demands of trade and the commercial demands for the development of an industry. 
We feel that already there has been a heavy denudation of our natural forests and this process must be impeded if it cannot be stopped. Recently in our Federal conference we carried a resolution that we wanted to retain as far as possible what relatively little remains of our natural forests. We know that all States are concerned and have passed legislation declaring natural forests and have surrounded them with all types of prohibitions on entry, on use and on the lighting of fires, and have expanded fire services, because this is a diminishing national asset which is extraordinarily precious and is virtually irreplaceable except over a long period of time, as nature has demonstrated to us. We are conscious of those things and that is why we take this very firm stand in relation to this Bill. 
I am informed that in New South Wales - I am not from that State - there are particular problems which have led the New South Wales Forestry Commission to undertake to destroy certain natural forests to enable the planting of monterey pines. I am informed also that in one case the New South Wales Forestry Commission contemplates the elimination of a natural eucalypt forest on the Boyd Plateau in the western Blue Mountains some 65 miles west of Sydney to enable the planting of pines for eventual milling at Oberon some 40 miles away. That no doubt can be justified in some sort of commercial terms. 
Yes. If that is the situation and the paramountcy of commercial exploitation is the only consideration affecting the minds of those who make the decision then I think it is to be deplored. The purpose of our amendment is to require an impact study on the environmental consequences of this disturbance, replacement or elimination before permission is given to replace indigenous plants with exotic plants of whatever character and for whatever purpose. It appears by no means to be an unwanted presumption to require that to be done. After all, if any commercial exploiter in any field is going into a new enterprise the first thing he will undertake is an impact study. Whether he is seeking to sell a line of soap powder, to develop a new machine or a new technique he will make an impact study, particularly in the field of public relations and advertising. 
It is a study of the effect the project will have on the local environment, the local fauna and the local flora. After all, when one replaces a eucalypt forest with a pine forest it is not merely the replacement of a eucalypt with a pine. It is also the disturbance of the ecology of the area and the disturbance of the habitat of animals. 
Yes. It involves the disturbance of the habitat of the creatures who live in the eucalypt forest. It may be, for example, a koala bear which is one of the inhabitants. So an impact study is not merely a study that looks at whether one will conserve as much water by the growing of pines as by the growing of eucalypts but the whole effect on the environment and the ecology of the area. Surely it is not too much to say in this new concept of environmental concern that is developing all over the world that this is a matter that should be taken into consideration in any developmental project where there is a danger of disturbance of the ecology or the environment by the contemplated commercial venture. In New South Wales recently the State conference of the Democratic Labor Party opposed the development of the Boyd Plateau on the ground that it would be better to include the land in the proposed Kanangra-Boyd National Park. I do not speak with great authority about it, but our conference did, and there were men .there who were intimately associated with the area and who knew something about it. Apparently there was a reasonable and available commercial alter native to the projected development of the Boyd Plateau. Surely that was the type of thing that could well have been the subject of an impact study by a body equipped to do it and to whom the study could have been entrusted. 
We agree that the development of the wood chip industry for export, particularly to Japan, is a matter of very great commercial consequence but we must remember that in the development of this industry, which may be of long or short duration because we know that commerce is subject to the vagaries of international relations and things of that nature, it may well be that when we have developed the industry at the cost of our eucalypts we will find that the trade has collapsed or disappeared and the eucalypts have gone never to be regenerated or recovered. That in my concept would be an extraordinarily bad bargin. I have raised the question of using plain and undulating land instead of forest land for the development of these exotic pine forests. The Democratic Labor Party feels that the Commonwealth should lay down as a matter of principle, so far as it lies within its constitutional power to do so, that the use of land for pine plantations should wherever possible be in areas of this kind rather than in areas which would involve the displacement of the natural flora. Therefore the Democratic Labor Party propounds this amendment. It is an operative amendment. I notice in the Bill that, while this agreement has apparently reached the point where it is substantially an agreement entered into between the Commonwealth and the States, clause 3 states: 
The execution, on behalf of the Commonwealth, of an agreement between the Commonwealth and a State substantially in accordance with the form contained in the Schedule to this Act is authored. 
I do not quite know how that clause was to be read if the Bill went through in its present form. It would mean that we would adopt, apparently, the agreement in the form contained in the Schedule which is part of this Bill. But if a State, being a party to the general understanding, legislated that schedule, provided it was substantially in accordance with the terms of the Schedule, it would be a party to that agreement and we would be bound in some way by the so amended Schedule. I do not canvass that. All I say is that obviously contemplated in clause 3 of the Bill is the possibility that either the Commonwealth in the passage of legislation or any one of the States at the same time and in the same way may see fit to vary in some particular the agreement embodied in the Schedule of this Act. That appears to be contemplated in clause 3. If that is so, there is nothing untoward in our making some adjustment to the agreement as it now appears in the existing Schedule. If that amendment is accepted and the Schedule is amended we say that we are prepared to subscribe to this agreement but with a qualification. When it goes back to the States any one State may say: 'We will so legislate in terms of your variation', or it may not. Correspondingly, if the State of New South Wales, on looking at this Schedule and this agreement, as we are looking at it today, decided that it should insert something, I presume we would have to look at the matter again here. So I take it that the whole matter is still inchoate and is still a matter of agreement between the States as to the final form in which the agreement should emerge, or alternatively if one of the States adopts it substantially but with some variations then the Commonwealth would adopt this Schedule and the 2 would run together, for what this is worth. 
lt is a most unusual clause and I am not quite able to discover what is the purport of it. At least it does indicate that there is room in this Parliament for us even at this stage to make a variation to the agreement as it is recited in the Schedule. In that case the States would have to look at it and see whether they are prepared to concur in that agreement in that new form or, as I say, legislate in other terms with the 2 agreements running along together substantially in concurrence. Nevertheless, we will propound our amendment to the agreement in terms of the circulated proposal which provides for the insertion of new clauses 9 and 9 (a). I know that the current agreement runs from 1967 to 1972. Just what the financial consequences would be if this Bill were held up, I candidly am not aware at the present time, but I have little doubt that the financial consequences would not be irremediable. Even though there were some delay in obtaining total Commonwealth and State concurrence there is little reason to believe that the matter would be held up and that any further moneys which were needed in any sense or for any purpose would not be provided and would not be available. 
So far as I can see, the agreement has not yet expired and therefore the Bill perhaps is not of that urgent nature that requires immediate passage to prevent the supply of money from completely disappearing and the whole of the projects being suspended. For those reasons, the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill in principle. It supports the expression of opinion embodied in the amendment propounded by  Senator Mulvihill  on behalf of the Opposition. The Democratic Labor Party will present its own amendment to clause 9 of the Schedule at the Committee stage. We trust that we shall have the concurrence of the Senate in that proposal. I understand we will receive the concurrence of the Opposition and I trust we will also have the concurrence of the Government. 
I intimated during my second reading speech that at the Committee stage I proposed to move an amendment to clause 9 of the Schedule annexed to the Bill. I take it to be, in effect, an amendment to clause 3 of the Bill which refers to the Schedule. I now move: 
In the Schedule, leave out clause 9, insert the following clauses: 
The State shall ensure that planting during each year is carried out efficiently and in conformity with sound forestry, environmental and financial practices.  9a. - The State shall ensure that natural forests shall not be cleared for planting softwoods unless the particular proposed clearing has beforehand been the subject of an environmental impact study made by an independent expert on behalf of the Australian Forestry Council and the Council after considering the report of the said study has approved the particular clearing'. 
During my second reading speech  1  indicated the general basis on which we propounded the amendment. We are indebted to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  for the observations he made when closing the second reading debate in which he revealed his personal association with this industry, somethings of his own skill in connection with it and his interest in its welfare. When such knowledge is presented to this chamber - too briefly, unfortunately - we should all be grateful that the Minister was so well prepared and so well informed.  1  say that because  I  am not able to accept his observations as to the consequences of the proposed amendment, if it is written into the Bill, and the criticism be levelled against it. 
The Minister said, firstly, that it would be in some sense a denial of co-operative federalism. What is apparent in this Bill is that the executive government of the Commonwealth and the executive governments of the States have conferred and have agreed to the writing of a new agreement to operate when the existing agreement terminates with the effluxion of time. That agreement is not yet concluded, and it is clear therefore that this is not a Bill for an Act which will confirm an agreement already entered into, ft is a Bill to which Ls annexed a schedule, a proposed agreement which though it may receive the joint assent of the participating parties is not yet a concluded agreement. I am not able to concede that it is purely within the province of the executive governments to conclude agreements of this character when they require legislative sanction whether on the part of the Commonwealth or on ,:ne part of the States, and merely to present a parliament, be it a provincial parliament or the Federal Parliament, with a fait accompli and require that parliament to give it legal authority and legislative operation. I cannot concede that in this case. Obviously an agreement of this character, because it has to receive legislative approval, will be an agreement made by the Parliaments of the Commonwealth and the States. The fact that we are presented with what is virtually a draft agreement, not concluded, and with these extremely interesting words, to which  Senator Cavanagh  indicated he proposed to refer later on, in clause 3 - 'the execution on behalf of the Commonwealth of an agreement between the Commonwealth and a State substantially in accordance with the form contained in the annexed Schedule' - obviously indicates that it is contemplated by the Bill that this would not necessarily be the final form of the agreement for either the  Commonwealth  or a State. Obviously the way is open for the Parliament in either case to express its own view and if it found it necessary or desirable to indicate in some way how the proposed agreement should be varied. 
That may be the interpretation. 
 I am indebted to the honourable senator who proposed to make some observations on this. That may well be the interpretation to be placed on it. It would be quite improper, on my reading, to deny this legislature or one of the State legislatures the opportunity and the right to scrutinise the agreement and, if necessary, to find a reason to impose its own ideas and let it go back for further consideration. The Minister said, and I indicated this in my second reading speech, that if we carry this amendment and if the amendment is then carried in another place the proposed agreement will have to go back to the States for them to rethink it to see whether they are prepared to accept this approach by the National Parliament. The States would then say whether they are prepared to renegotiate on that basis or whether they adhere to their original proposition as contained in the Schedule. Then it would be a matter for renegotiation and further discussions to see whether some accord could be discovered along the lines that this chamber is now pro proposing should be the proper basis on which the agreement should be written. Therefore I do not think that this Parliament should be expected, and  1  would not be a party to it, to surrender its right to scrutinise this agreement merely because the executive Government has seen fit in these terms to negotiate it. 
As the Minister said, there are men in this place skilled in this field who have brought their ideas to bear. Surely those ideas quite rightly can find some fruitful operation and the effect of their presentation can find expression in an amendment carried in this place. Since the time whe the 1967 agreement, the last agreement and the presently operating agreement, was concluded a completely new concept has emerged in the thinking of the whole world, including Australia, on the significance of environmental control. Surely that is a new concept the real importance of which is only now becoming apparent. It would seem that if that was not a concept embodied in the original agreement it is because it was not at that time considered to be of the importance that it is considered today to be. Therefore it would appear completely logical that we should write this new concept, if we have the opportunity, into the agreement to be concluded. That appears quite logica! and I would hope that the States would accept it in that way. This is not an attempt by the Commonwealth to impose its will on the States. I am unable to accept that as an interpretation of the action that my amendment proposes to take. 
This is the Commonwealth, through the Parliament, expressing its view on what should be in an agreement in pursuance of which revenue is to be appropriated and money made available to the States. I cannot accept that as other than a proper exercise of co-operative federalism. I can find no validity whatever in the argument of the Minister that this is a denial of cooperative federalism and I do not think the States would regard it as such. If, for example, instead of our moving in this matter this agreement had come before the South Australian Parliament and it proposed a step such as my Party's amendment proposes, would we regard that as an attempt by South Australia to impose its will on this Parliament? 
I would not interpret it in that way. 
I would not interpret it in that way at all. Surely a sovereign parliament is entitled to express its view, its opinion and to give it legislative form on a matter on which it is required cooperatively to legislate and in respect of which it is to provide funds. Surely that is not an imposition of the will of the Commonwealth on a State or vice versa. The Commonwealth may have had a fairly limited role in the field of forestry development, which has been exclusively within the province of the States. Nevertheless the provision of funds in this case is of Commonwealth interest and concern and flows from Commonwealth revenue and that gives us an entitlement to speak our mind in this matter. That is what we are now asking the Senate to do. 
I was not aware that the wording was so obscure that it would require that. 
That would not necessarily prove the point, with due respect. Nevertheless, it may still be obscure. What we propose is that the environmental consequences of the operation of reafforestation shall be investigated. That is what we ask. We are not asking that the investigation be entrusted to an irresponsible body. The body to which it is to be entrusted is a body to which  Senator Cotton  has referred. He referred to its charter, its status and the effectiveness of its operation. Surely if that body is asked, as an additional function within its existing charter, or as an additional head of its directive, to take into account the environmental consequences and if the body has the status and competency stated by  Senator Cotton  surely there should be no concern in this place as to whether that body should be entrusted with this additional responsibility. 
What do you mean by that question? 
We are seeking a study of the environmental impact of proposed development, redevelopment or reafforestation.  Senator Webster  may not have been here at the time, but earlier in the debate  Senator Cotton  raised that matter and we spoke of the ecological consequences. For example, if we are to replace an indigenous forest with an exotic forest there will be a disturbance of the native life - flora and fauna - within the eucalypt forest which may not be able to live within the pine forest. That is an illustration of the type of impact we feel such a disturbance might have, and it is the type of impact we are hoping this body will investigate. If on the balance of advantages the disturbance is so grave and so great that it would not warrant a proposed venture there should be serious consideration given to whether the project should proceed. That is the type of investigation which appears to me to be completely logical and wise and it is certainly in consonance with the new sensitivity of this nation in relation to environmental protection and the general conservation of flora and fauna and natural resources. Therefore I am somewhat at a loss to know why the Government should not be prepared to accept this amendment. We know that the consequence of it being accepted would be that the agreement would have to go back for reconsideration and perhaps renegotiation, but I do not know that the States would not quite readily be prepared to accept this proposition. After all, it would involve the conservation of State assets and ecology and way of natural life. 
I do not have the list here; I have given it to Hansard. I have mentioned already where in fact that was taking place in New South Wales. I was briefed on that but I forget the names of the places. The Boyd Plateau is one I remember- and  one to which  Senator Cotton  referred. 
You heard how  Senator Cotton  described it. I imagine that those who would be familiar with it and who would be interested in the amendment that we propose may have had another description and another analysis of the reasons for its present condition and the possibility of its retrievability. I would imagine that there could well be another interpretation of the whole position, but that in fact is going on and it is something we should strive earnestly to avoid. 1 certainly think the State governments should try to avoid that situation arising. If they accept this proposition then I think it may well conserve their resources; I think it has all the elements of wisdom and prudence in it. 
Unfortunately, I cannot read the mind of the Premier of Queensland but I suppose that any impediment to the ordinary processes of government is not always welcome even though it may be wise. Nevertheless, perhaps after further consideration the Government may see the wisdom of this proposal. I would have little doubt that this would not in any sense impede a proper renegotiation of this agreement with this new principle embodied in it. It is only a new principle; that is all. All the agreement is saying is that when it is being renegotiated there is one new factor to be taken into account, and we think it should be taken into account. I think the Government should have no concern in that regard. If the Government rests on the basis that this is an imposition of Commonwealth will on the States, I think that is inaccurate. If it is believed that it is a denial of co-operative federalism, I think that is inaccurate. As a matter of fact, it appears to me that it is a prime example of co-operative federalism. It is one element in a series of contracts between a number of parties on the one side and the Commonwealth on the other. 
I ask  leave of the Senate to make an amendment. I preface my remarks by saying that yesterday the Senate was gracious enough to accord me leave to bring in a Bill described as the 'Prices Limitation Bill 1972' and to take it to the first reading stage which was passed by resolution of the Senate. Due to an oversight there was an insertion in that Bill which I wish to delete. I ask leave of the Senate to delete from clause 3 of the Bill, which is the definition of 'industrial agreement', the words in the last 4 lines of the definition. After the word 'Commonwealth' where it occurs in the fourth last line of the definition 'industrial agreement' I ask leave to delete the words: 'But does not include an agreement, arrangement, understanding, award, order or determination the making of which arose out of, or took place in  the  course of, conciliation or arbitration proceedings before such a court or tribunal'. I ask for the graciousness of the Senate to delete those words so that the Bill in the form in which it was proposed and inadvertently not presented may proceed to further stages and pass through this chamber in the form in which we desire. 
 It is a private members Bill to restrict increases in the prices of certain goods and services. 
I think that there has been a slight misunderstanding. This course of action was agreed to.  Senator DrakeBrockman  is correct. But I think I said that I would discuss the matter with my colleagues. Whilst an announcement has been made about a rural bank, until it becomes a reality we would prefer to retain this order of the day on the notice paper. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
That General Business, order of the day No. 20, be discharged from the notice paper. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
That General Business, notice of motion No. 3, be discharged from the notice paper. 
I would like to speak briefly to this motion. I remind the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  that it might be wise for him to indicate to the Senate that it was agreed that when motions are put aside by agreement they will be listed, and when the new notice paper is compiled they will be considered for early inclusion in that notice paper. Honourable senators who otherwise may have some reservations will know that these motions are being protected in this way. In relation to this motion, we feel that as the Senate Estimates Committee are to be recalled into operation for this year it would be untimely to try to effect the end that is proposed in the motion. But it could be resurrected with these other motions next year. 
These may be a misunderstanding. This relates not to motions which are to be kept on the notice paper but to motions that will be discharged and whether they should be resurrected in order of re-presentation or by 'arrangement following discussion. 
As the member of this chamber who was responsible for proposing the referral of an inquiry into telephone directories to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment, I am naturally interested in the activities of the Committee and its deliberations and recommendations. I am particularly interested in the extent to which the recommendations have been accepted by the Government and put into operation and to learn that, in addition, initiatives of the Post Office, not canvassed by the Committee in its recommendations, have been incorporated in one of the newly published directories. In view of what the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  describes, quite properly, in relation to the reference to the Committee in the opinion of the Post Office as the rather low level of public interest in this matter, I can only imagine that I must be much more sensitive to irritations and frustrations that the ordinary run of the public because personally I have found constant irritation and frustration in trying to discover quickly in the telephone directory the information which I want. It is my personal experience that other people to whom I have spoken have had the same difficulty. I thought that I was probably reflecting a substantial body of opinion. I am slightly disconcerted to find that apparently the opinion was not as widely held as I had occasion to believe. However, I do not think that a reference of a matter such as this to a standing committee is perhaps the most appropriate type of reference which can be made. 
I have had occasion in this chamber before to draw attention to major references put down to these committees which were more appropriately subjects for investigation by select committees - ad hoc committees. Standing committees seem to me to have a different function. I think that the investigation of specific matters within a slightly limited area which allow for a rather prompt response and a quick report by the committee are certainly the most appropriate types of reference which can be put down to standing committees. I think that this investigation was of that type. I think the holding of the investigation and the presentation of the report has been worth while. The recommendations which have been made are salutory. I think that they show some advanced thinking. Without being an expert in the field, 1 know that there are technical difficulties. I would have liked to have seen a much greater use made of the multi-coloured page system so that this would become a standard practice. Information relating to telephone inquiries would be on mauve pages, other information on pink pages and still other details on yellow pages. Immediately there would be a colour dissection of the directory. I understand there are some technical difficulties in relation to that but at least there is a 2-colour system. That in itself will be of great value. 
Without unduly prolonging the deliberations of the Senate there is a further point in this field which I should like to make. We have to realise that the Post Office is basically a commercial undertaking. It is already subject to very heavy demands from overhead expenses. We know that insofar as the system may not flow smoothly, to that extent there will be a great labour demand with a consequential increase in costs. If the burden of involvement by the Post Office in the ordinary routine of discovering numbers and answering queries can be eliminated, there will be a great financial saving to the Post Office. Therefore any of these suggestions which are incorporated in the new telephone book which might eliminate the frustrations of members of the public who might have them because of failure to obtain service from the Post Office will react to the advantage of the Post Office in a public relations sense. 
Secondly, they will relieve the Post Office of having to supply unnecessary numbers and staff to answer queries which will not necessarily arise if the directories give the information and present it in a form which is quickly comprehensible and readily available. Insofar as these recommendations if carried into the new telephone directory might obviate the difficulties to which I have referred, I think the whole investigation has been worth while. I think it has been very wise to separate the general postal information pages and put them at the back of the directory. As a telephone directory is primarily, but its name, to be used for telephones those who go to it should not have the difficulty of thumbing through a lot of pages containing information in another field of Post Office operations. I think the recommendations are very salutory and should be implemented. 
I thank  Senator Laucke  and the other members of the Committee for the investigation. I thank them for the promptitude with which they conducted it and for the skill with which they have brought in their recommendations. I express my appreciation of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  and his Department for the readiness to adopt the recommendations. I await the outcome now. I hope that honourable senators will feel some benefit resulting from the exaggerated frustration of one of the few people who really felt that the Post Office directory was rather inadequate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Minister aware of growing concern among Service personnel and their wives and families that the delay of the Government in announcing its policy in relation to the report of the Joint Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation indicates that the Government is not disposed to accept the recommendations of the Committee? Is he further aware that the delay in the declaration of policy in this respect can have a serious effect on the recruitment of personnel and on the re-enlistment of those who are presently serving in the armed forces? Finally, is the Minister in a position to indicate whether the Government is likely to make an early announcement as to the acceptance in whole or in part of the report of the Committee? 
in reply - May I, in concluding the debate, thank the Senate for the consideration it has given the motion. I appreciate that members of the Senate are conscious of the depth of the problem and I appreciate the unanimous support which the motion has received. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I  address my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I say by way of prelude that my question refers to a matter which is the substance of notice of motion No. 11 standing in my name under the heading Orders of the Day' on page 6382 of the. Senate Notice Paper and is related to the establishment of a rural finance corporation.  I  understand in asking this question that  I  am within the Standing Orders of the Senate. As I have said, this is a matter relating to a notice of motion. 1 ask the Minister whether he is in a position tq inform the Senate whether the Government will be making an announcement at an early date on the Government's decision to establish a rural bank, the creation of which was forecast recently by the Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr Anthony,  which has been the announced policy of the Australian Democratic Labor Party both inside and outside the Parliament for some years, but which has been consistently rejected by all other parties in the Senate when the Democratic Labor Party has moved by resolution for such creation? 
I move: 
That there bc referred to the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, the following matters: 
The means by which isolated school children, that is children who, for geographic reasons, have no reasonable daily access to an appropriate school - 
can be afforded equal educational opportunity wilh other children not so situated; and 
can be provided with an education suitable to the child, en's talents and interests, which will equip them for employment in the occupational field which they select. 
The means by which these disabilities can be overcome whether by extension and deployment more widely of schools or institutes of tertiary education, the provision of financial aid to such children or otherwise. 
I am indebted to the Senate for the opportunity which has now been given me to present this motion for consideration by this chamber. This is one of a series of motions which have come before the Senate and which indicate the interest of the Senate in matters relating to the education of children. In a number of cases these have taken the form of a reference to the newly created standing committees of the Senate so that the matters can be investigated in depth. Such a motion related to handicapped children - I think it was put by  Senator Fitzgerald  - and was the subject of a report by a select committee. There was a reference to teacher training which was considered by a standing committee and was the subject of a report. There is a reference already in my name to the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts to which it is proposed to refer this matter in relation to the education of deprived children, that is, children who come from certain economic and geographic areas and who by virtue of some degree of intellectual starvation or lack of communication within the domestic environment, arrive at school somewhat disadvantaged when compared with their contemporaries. The Committee is already directing its attention to that reference. 
This is a similar reference, lt relates to children in isolated areas. This is a matter of very great consequence, particularly to anybody who moves in the country such as honourable senators who represent the Australian Country Party and who know that in the remote areas of Australia this is of importance and great concern to the parents of children living in those areas who, for financial or other reasons, are not able to see that their children receive an adequate education which will equip them for the role they are to play in  life  according to their disposition and talents. Recently I participated in a seminar at Dirranbandi in the south-west of Queensland along with the Leader of the Opposition in the other place,  Mr Whitlam, Mr Killen,  M.P., and the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr King.  In spite of all the other problems which are of great concern to those people who are gravely distressed because of the economic recession in the rural industries, a matter which was occupying their minds with great intensity was the deprivation of educational opportunities which they felt, rightly, should accrue to their children in these areas. This is something which is manifest in these more remote parts of the continent. 
As a consequence of this, there is a body called the Isolated Children's Parents Association - the ICPA. It has a federal executive and is constituted on a very wide basis. It is dispersed over the whole continent, particularly the eastern part, and is very active in its attempts to secure some measure of educational equity and justice for children in these parts of Australia. This Association is composed of very good people who are devoting their time and energy to see whether this great disability can be overcome. Only last week they travelled to Canberra and interviewed members of all political parties, including my own, and placed their propositions before us in a personal sense, propositions that they have placed many times by correspondence. The work and research which  have been done by that Association indicate, firstly, the dedication of the people who are doing it; secondly, the depth of their concern, and thirdly, just how grave the problem is. 1 spoke to the general secretary,  Mrs Edgley,  who comes from Bourke in western New South Wales. I told her what was proposed in this regard. These people are most enthusiastic that this matter should be discussed by the Parliament, and even more enthusiastic that it should receive scrutiny from the appropriate committee of the Senate which, in this case, is the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. They are concerned at the delay which has taken place in attention being directed to this problem. 
Only this morning I received a letter from this good lady to whom I had indicated that I proposed to present the motion which I am now presenting to the Senate and of which I had then given notice. She indicated her concern by saying that at this stage she would prefer that I proceed by way of an urgency motion rather than by this motion. This is not an indication that she thought that the method which I am now pursuing in inappropriate but that it is so urgent that perhaps an urgency motion might be the way of bringing it immediately before the Parliament. However, the opportunity has arisen within a few hours to present this motion and this is still the more appropriate way in which this matter can most effectively receive parliamentary attention, examination and scrutiny. That is why 1 present the motion to the Senate as I do now. 
The position of isolated children is desperate. When we speak of isolated children I do not want it to be thought that we speak of the sons and daughters of very wealthy sheep graziers or beef graziers of whom some cynic might say: 'They should have enough money themselves to provide education for their children'. The children to whom I refer are not necessarily by any means children of that type of person. They are the sons and daughters of people who live in these country areas. The parents may be occupied in quite humble avocations. They may be workers, artisans, small shopkeepers, those employed on properties as shearers or in occupations which do not bring tremendous financial returns, as well as the sons and daughters of the rural settlers in those areas. We know that, in view of the recession in the rural industries, many of this latter group are people who, whatever might be thought of their traditional economic position in the community, today no longer enjoy that position and are finding tremendous difficulty in financing their properties and many other things, including the education of their children. 
Debate interrupted. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Order! It being 9 o'clock, the time has expired for the consideration of motions. 
Motion (by  Senator Drake-Brockman)  proposed: 
That consideration of motions be further proceeded with until the arrival of the Ordinances and Legislations (Notification) Bill from the House of Representatives. 

 Senator Willesee - I discussed this matter with  Senator Drake-Brockman  and we thought that this was the most expeditious way in. which to handle it. I do not know what other speakers will say, but because this is a reference to a committee and the committee will be doing the work, it may be possible to get the reference off our plate if we exercise a little discipline. I will be speaking on behalf of my Party, and I will speak for about four or five minutes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Debate resumed. 
 I am indebted to the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  and to the Senate for giving me the opportunity to continue this debate. I am extremely sensitive of the remark that has been made by  Senator Willesee  and the motion which the Senate has now carried. We shall proceed with this matter until the arrival of a very urgent measure from another place. I think it would be a shame if, because of protracted speeches on this matter, this debate was not concluded before the arrival of the Bill and bad to be postponed. Therefore, I do not propose to speak at any great length. 
 I think  Senator Wright  for his suggestion. The point is that I might speak unduly long, the Bill would arrive and other speakers would then be precluded from participating in the debate and possibly we might not conclude the matter. As  Senator Willesee  has said, the object of this exercise is to have the whole matter examined in depth by a standing committee of the Senate. Therefore, it is not necessary for us to canvass the question here in detail because the object of the reference is to ascertain the facts. Any facts which I might put before the Senate - and I shall do it very briefly - are facts which have been gleaned by these good people from statistical evidence to justify the reference and the proposition I am putting. Of course, on examination more facts will be gleaned, more statistics will be accumulated, no doubt propositions will be examined, solutions will be discovered and, we hope, recommendations will be made. However, I will refer to some matters. If I may be permitted to read from documents which have been presented to me by the Isolated Children's Parents Association, I will indicate what are the matters that that Association considers might well come before the committee. First of all, there is the definition of an isolated child, and it falls into a few categories. Those categories are: 
Those children beyond daily reach (removed by distance) of any school facilities, i.e., those who must do correspondence lessons fulltime in the home . . . 
It goes on in more detail. The next category is: 
Those children in thinly populated areas who could be conveyed to school daily, but their numbers per road are insufficient to warrant provision of school bus. 
Again further details are given. The next category is: 
Those children attending small primary schools in villages where no secondary school is available and distance to nearest secondary, school is beyond school bus range. These children on reaching secondary level must board away or do secondary correspondence lessons fulltime under supervision of primary school master. . . . 
Those children attending a small secondary school where one teacher supervises up to 35 pupils in 5 or 6 grades. 
Further categories are: 
Those children attending central high school where there is no full high school within daily reach by bus. . . . 
Those children travelling excessive distances (by private car and then school bus) over unformed/unsealed roads, where such travelling imposes excessive hardship on parent or child. 
Then there is further detail extrapolating that proposition. The last category is: 
The child from isolated areas who needs remedial education at special schools (available only in capital cities, and in some cases only interstate), . . . 
Those are the types of children and the types of situations to which the Committee will be asked to direct its attention and upon which it will be asked to recommend. The submission from the Isolated Children's Parents Association goes on to speak of the provision of accommodation, the cost of accommodation and what may well be provided. That is the important thing. If children have to leave a local area and seek schooling in a more remote area, they must be accommodated. Therefore, there is a question of what type of accommodation should be provided - whether it should be provided by the erection ot hostels in regional areas or whether it should be provided by the subvention of the cost of accommodation provided in hostels or in private homes or institutions. That is another matter which is quite germane to this inquiry and which the Association considers should come under scrutiny. 
No parent will willingly send a child to boarding school before it is essential. Most parents prefer their children to attend a local school up to the grade where it is possible, or even to do the work by correspondence. But, of course, that imposes tremendous strains on parents. In these days when very often there are depressed conditions in rural areas, mothers as well as fathers are working to run the property. Therefore, it is extremely difficult to try to conduct, on some basis, a correspondence course for a child. That again is another matter to which the Association suggests the Committee might give its attention. 
It is suggested, and it is submitted, that perhaps a correspondence supervisor allowance could be made available to a parent, and the Association suggests a figure of $400 per annum. If a mother is required to teach a child for 6 or 7 hours a day she is virtually doing the work of the Education Department. I shall give a few figures to indicate how severe is the occurrence of this situation. On the figures supplied to me, as at 22nd April 1972 there were 1,795 correspondence pupils in New South Wales. In Queensland 194 mothers supervised, 30 families employed domestic help and 40 families employed governesses. There were 241 fulltime correspondence pupils, 7 of whom were doing a secondary correspondence course. 
In Western Australia there were 477 correspondence pupils on a fulltime basis. In South Australia there were 206 fulltime correspondence pupils in homes; the number of mothers supervising those pupils apparently was not known: there were 26 families with governesses, and 4 families employed domestic help. As I say, this imposes severe physical and financial burdens on a group of people who today are not able to bear either burden, and unless some solution is found for this we will find more and more distress in the rural and remote areas, we will find more and more educational deprivation, and ultimately we will find a further erosion of people from the land and a loss of interest in the rural areas with all the consequences that flow from that. In this regard I might quote Oliver Goldsmith, who said: 
Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey,, 
Where wealth accumulates, and men decay. 
If that happens there is abandonment of the land. Whatever economic remedies we might try to apply to rural reconstruction or rural regeneration, unless we are able to assure the people that their children will have as good an opporunity in life as children in urban areas, one cannot expect those people to stay on the land. That is an inevitable outcome, and it must be our aim and purpose to try to retrieve the position and to assure these people of this equality of opportunity which will sustain the strength and vitality of the rural population, our rural cities and our regional cities and towns. 
 Of course,  Senator Durack.  who comes from Western Aus tralia, would be very conscious of this matter, and I am indebted to him for his interjection. With the development and exploitation of our mining resources, and with mining towns springing up mostly in the more remote areas of the continent, this becomes a very dominating situation in those areas. Possibly it is a situation which will not disappear in time. It will intensify and extend as the years pass. In those circumstances we can see that the Committee will have a very important, very relevant and very opportune task to discharge in examining the whole situation at this stage. 
I should like to read into Hansard the figures contained in a table, provided again by the Isolated Children's Parents Association, which sets out the numbers of what it calls white isolated children in the Commonwealth who were known to the Association as at 10th April 1972. I presume that this table does not include indigenous children - Aborigines; it refers purely to white children. It is suggested that in South Australia there are 348 children who might be described as isolated children. It is estimated that in New South Wales there are 2,000 isolated school children, approximately 1.200 of whom are in the Western Division. As at the end of 1971 the New South Wales Correspondence School had the following numbers of full time isolated pupils: 310 in the infants grades. 240 in the primary grades 3 and 4, 119 in the primary grades 5 and 6, 173 in the secondary forms at home, and 215 in the secondary forms at school - a total of 1,057. In Tasmania it is estimated that there is a maximum of 17 isolated children, but no exact figures have been obtained. There are only 3 Tasmanian full time correspondence pupils. Of course, Tasmania has a smaller area and it has an excellent system of area schools. 
 That may well be. That is not my assessment or evaluation. This evaluation has been presented to me by this Association. It may err on the conservative side. If that is so, the problem is even greater and the depth of the problem is even more than I have indicated and the figures show. In the Northern Territory the figures are not known to the Association, but perhaps they would be known to the Department of Education and Science. No doubt they will become known to the Committee. In Western Australia there are 750 isolated children in Zone A. The total number of claimants for living away allowances in Zones A to D in 1970 was 2,857. The Western Australian Correspondence School has 477 full time secondary pupils. 
In Queensland as at 22nd April 1972 there were 29 branches of this Association. That extraordinarily large number indicates again the breadth of the problem. There are 29 centres in which people have been able to form a branch of this Association. They are mostly in the far flung towns and smaller regional cities of Queensland. It is not possible to gather a congregation to form an active branch of this Association unless it will meet a need, because these people do not meet for academic or social discussion; they meet to do a job. The fact that this Association is so extensive and its personnel figures are so high indicates that there is a real job to be done. 
This is the way the information on Western Australia reads:  750 in Zone A (total number claimants for living away allowances Zone A-D 1970 - 2,857). 

 Senator Sim may be able to interpret that more accurately than I can. There may be some local method of designation. In Queensland there are 809 families and 2,205 children made up of 469 at the preschool level, 1,038 at the primary level, 670 at the secondary level and 28 at the tertiary level. There are 46 split homes, 40 governesses, 194 mothers who teach correspondence in the home, 30 families that employ domestic help and 748 children who live away to attend school at distances between 100 and 1,000 miles. Twenty of those 748 children travel interstate, and 15 children have been removed from school for economic reasons. As at August 1971 the Queensland Correspondence School had 213 primary pupils and 214 secondary pupils, but the Queensland Education Department has not established whether all of these are from rural areas and are all full time pupils. 
I thank the honourable senator for his interjection; but this document also states: 
Provisionally, we estimate total numbers of isolated children in Commonwealth would not exceed 7,000. This figure could be expected to decrease over the years as - 
Families forced off land. 
Amalgamation smaller holdings. 
Present decline rural white birthrate. 
Provision of additional rural school bus services as sealing of roads progresses; also upgrading of schools in isolated areas. 
Therefore, whatever financial provision is made to solve this problem, it may reasonably be expected that this will be a diminishing rather than increasing burden on the Budget. Unfortunately, that is not a happy solution because it means that we are solving the problem by taking people from the western areas. That is bad in itself. Obviously the ideal solution would be, with adequate concern, solicitude and financial assistance, to keep people on the land. 
In answer to  Senator Cavanagh's  earlier interjection, I repeat that this is a motion to refer the matter to a standing committee. These good people have put forward certain suggestions which I have presented earlier in my address. I personally do not know the solutions. I imagine that the first step would be a financial solution. However, that is a matter for the standing committee to attempt to discover. The Commonwealth might provide the money and the States might see to its proper disbursement. This money could be expended on the provision of regional schools, the provision of accommodation near schools in remote areas and the provision of financial assistance to parents to send their children to school or, in the case of parents who are conducting school at home by correspondence or otherwise, financial assistance in that direction. Then there could be taxation concessions for parents who are required to spend money on transport - by road, air or whatever it may be - or on accommodation in areas remote from the home for the provision of schooling for isolated children. 
I presume that  Senator Cavanagh  has in mind the fact that this involves a separation of the child from the parents and perhaps involves the child living in a non-domestic atmosphere. 
Undoubtedly it is not the best education. But this is the old conflict between a child going to day school and living at home and a child going to boarding school. There are 2 schools of thought on this. Many parents think that there is no substitute for the continuous residence of the child in the home and the child's attendance at day school. But part of our education system which has been extremely successful in producing very great men and women in Australia is the boarding school. It entails the separation of the child from the parents, except during holidays. Nevertheless many parents elect for the boarding school, and it has been successful. I do not know that it has trespassed unduly upon the relationship between child and parent in the home. Certainly in a situation such as this we will not find the ideal solution- 
I dealt with that.  Senator Cavanagh  may not have been in the chamber when I mentioned it. Correspondence schooling in Queensland may be through the school of the air or through home tuition supported by communication with a central correspondence school from which the lessons are transmitted by post. But education in the home requires a mother who is interested, who is skilled and who has the time and is not required to help her husband during the day in the conduct of the property or business. 
That is canvassed in the submissions I have received from the association to which I have referred - the Isolated Children's Parents Association. That Association contemplates that idea, but it is asking for a financial subvention as a component of this joint system of tuition. 
I do not feel that I should extrapolate on this matter any more. I think the problem is evident. The figures that have been presented are compelling and disturbing. I am sure it will gratify the Association and the parents who are interested and involved in it if they know that the Parliament is giving the matter its attention, and doing so in a most practical manner by calling evidence and examining the whole situation. I have indicated to these good people that when this matter comes before the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, they undoubtedly will be invited to appear and probably will have a prior invitation to make their submissions, following the normal practice, in writing and then to support them in person by members of the Association making oral presentation to the Committee. 
In addition, any parents who may wish to come before the Committee would be in a position to make their individual submissions. I say this because problems are very often unique to one family, they are not shared by every family. It may be that the Association will not deem it necessary to put a particular situation but one family might wish to present on its own behalf a submission on that aspect. Ample opportunity will be given by this method for examination of the whole problem. I am gratified as I feel that members of the Government and the Opposition are disposed to support this motion.  I  only hope that the Senate Standing Committee will be able to give its attention to this matter at a reasonably early date. 
There could be better reasons,  Senator Cavanagh,  but at least that is a good reason and probably a compelling reason. Perhaps we do not know any alternative because we do not know how deep the problem is. That is the idea behind this reference. It is to alert the nation to the need for action. It is to alert the Parliament and the Federal and State governments for the need for some steps to be taken in relation to this matter. No doubt the State governments will be invited to make their submissions. 
 That may be so. However, this is a practical step. 1 am sure that it will  be  greeted enthusiastically by those who are involved in the problem or, alternatively, are affected by the situation individually or in groups. I commend my motion to honourable senators. It should have and I am sure that it will have their enthusiastic support. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I direct my question to  Senator Davidson, Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. I refer to the resolution of the Senate yesterday which referred to that Committee the question of the education of children in isolated areas. Speaking in the course of that debate  Senator Davidson  stated, as  Chairman  of the Committee, that there already was a heavy pro gramme before the Committee, including a major reference relating to broadcasting and television. I ask the honourable senator: In view of the need for urgent action in regard to the matter which was the subject of yesterday's reference will he, as  Chairman,  suggest to the Committee for its consideration that that matter might receive some degree of prior consideration in its programme? 
I express the attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party on this motion to promote the earliest possible consideration of the measure which the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  presented to this chamber. The Democratic. Labor Party supports the motion. Obviously an extraordinarily difficult situation has arisen as a result of the determination of the Full Court of the Supreme Court, of the Australian Capital Territory. The rights of people are gravely affected and are. likely to be more gravely affected if there is an undue delay in presenting to Parliament legislation which will restore a viable juridical system which is no longer available in relation to many ordinances.  Senator Murphy  made a case that on further consideration this may have to be done and that may have to be done. I am conscious of the recent attitude of the honourable senator when the Australian Capital Territory Evidence' Ordinance was rejected by the Senate. The legal system in Canberra was left without any viable code of evidentiary law to apply- in determination of cases. The courts, were unable to sit. In this chamber  Senator Murphy  was perhaps the first to realise, the urgency of the situation. He said that there must be immediate introduction of legislation to. stabilise the position. He introduced a private member's Bill. 
Sentaor BYRNE- -It was a temporary measure, but it was an. urgent measure. The honourable senator stressed particularly the urgency of presentation. I quote from the Hansard report of the debate of 25 th August 1971.  Senator Murphy,  addressing himself to the second reading of his Bill, said: 
The Bill is a very simple one. It is a temporary Bill. It provides for the continuance of the provisions which were contained in the Australian Capital Territory Evidence Ordinance 1971. The Bill proposes to continue that law only until 31st October 1971, and that is the justification for not having a minute examination of the law. It is merely a temporary provision which will overcome the problems of those who are involved in court cases, who might be facing trials and so on. It gives the Government the opportunity to bring in before that time a measure and to have it debated and subjected to analysis in this and the other chamber in the ordinary way. 
He  went  on: 
I hope that wisdom will prevail and that the Bill will be passed without any attempt at delay so that those in the Territory who may be affected and whose position has been enlarged on may not be placed in any further difficulty. 
I think that the principle enunciated by  Senator Murphy  at that time is the aplicable principle to this situation. I am rather discomfited that  Senator Murphy  has now found cause to depart from the principle he enunciated on that occasion. I am at a loss to know why he did so. The cases are virtually parallel. In the first case a body of ordinances was disallowed by the Senate and Canberra was left without any viable evidentiary law. In this a body of ordinances has been declared inoperative by the Supreme Court and again there is no code of applicable law in the Territory. In each case individual rights are affected and are likely to be affected. Each matter is one of urgency. The honourable senator adverted to all those matters on the previous occasion. It appears to me that  Senator Murphy's  proposition then was a valid one. It received the support of the chamber. The Bill went to another place and was endorsed immediately.  Senator Murphy's  Bill became the operative replacement legislation. 
I cannot see why the same principle does not apply in this case. The honourable senator implied, by interjection, that his was a temporary provision which would give us time to examine the principles. The point is that the legislation is legislation to declare what was the law and each ordinance, which today has been declared inoperative by the court, could have been discussed at the time it was introduced. There is no new situation, apart from the practical operation of the ordinance. Save so far as  Senator Murphy  might say that that difference justifies a difference in his attitude, I think it is quite an indefensible position. Further time would not warrant the examination of the ordinances which have operated for many years, which could have been the subject of disallowance by the Senate when they were introduced originally and which could have been debated in the intervening years. Whether that has or has not been done, this is not the occasion to do it. 
Therefore I think there is no warrant for the position which is now being taken to prevent the Bill coming up for the earliest possible consideration. It seeks to regularise the position, to protect the rights of individuals and to defend the situation of those who otherwise might be unjustly and inequitably affected. Therefore we support the motion to advance the consideration of the legislation to the highest position of priority. 
 I am rather intrigued by a possibility, and  Senator James  McClelland may bc good enough to comment on this. Let us look at the question of civil liability. Let us mag.ine a common law action in which a plaintiff may be alleging, as part of the basis of his claim, a breach of statutory duty. Let us presume that there is an ordinance in the Australian Capital Territory which requires machinery to be fenced and that the only substantial cause of action say, by an injured worker who may have had his fingers or his arm amputated was a breach of statutory duty by the employer in not having the machinery fenced. If the ordinance requiring that is not validated and the accident has occurred, would not the plaintiff have his right of action either destroyed or gravely imperilled or limited? I do not know. That thought crosses my mind. 
It appears to me that there is almost a philosophical situation in law which emerges in this discussion. Obedience to the law is usually maintained within the concept that there is a prevailing body of valid law and that the ordinary person is presumed to know that law. Ignorance of the law in itself is no defence to a prosecution for a breach of that law. That is .the social context in which the whole of our system of criminal jurisprudence operates, that persons are presumed to know the law. Therefore, if a person violates a law of which he is unaware, or a law which turns out &gt;to be invalid, he is still presumed, in the context in which he sets himself against the body of law, to have known that there was such a body of operative law which affected him. 
It appears to me that we must look at this matter in those circumstances and against that background, that a person perpetrates his offence against a commonly accepted social opinion that there is such a body of operative law, although subsequently it may turn out to have been invalidly proclaimed or inoperatively proclaimed. I think there is a very substantial difference between a law which is invalid ab initio by subsequent declaration and one which is validly passed and goes through the proper processes and is within power, but which as a technical matter has not been properly proclaimed. I see a vast difference in those 2 situations. For one to take action retrospectively to create an offence in the first situation may be indefensible. That one should do it to declare that the law always was such seems to me to be totally defensible, 1 want to put one small proposition.  Senator Wheeldon  asked: What about those people already in prison?' Against that background consider the case of a person who, with full knowledge and without any persuasion or inducement, pleaded guilty to every element of an offence under the Ordinance now declared to be ineffectively proclaimed and was convicted. There was no operative law; nevertheless he pleaded guilty to every element of the offence. 
 Wait a minute. That person therefore, in the social context, has set himself completely against the law and freely acknowledges that fact. It appears to me that to exonerate that person subsequently would be an extraordinary situation. The offence may have been a most serious one; of which in fact he was guilty, acknowledged to be guilty, and in fact acknowledged every element of the offence. Under those circumstances, I am unable to see that this is in any sense retrospective legislation. I think it is declarative legislation. In the circumstances, it seems to me to do no inequity. As a proposition in total justice it seems to be the only reasonable and prudent course that can be followed. 
 I think that it is important in relation to a matter of such consequence that the attitude of the component parties in the Senate should be disclosed as early as possible so that the Senate will know the disposition of members of the parties in their approach to this very important matter. I am, and I think the Senate is, indebted to  Senator Durack  for his scholarly analyses of the whole situation which is involved in the invalidation of the particular ordinance and the consequence that flows on to other ordinances in the Australian Capital Territory and for his historical references to similar situations that have arisen elsewhere.  Senator Murphy  said that it is strange that great questions are often decided on small matters and sometimes involve inconspicuous people. That is very true. It is also extraordinary how history has a habit of repeating tself. On this occasion we face a situation in which an ordinance which was subject to disallowance in this place was not disallowed and was promulgated. It turns out to have been incorrectly promulgated and therefore has been invalidated by the courts. 
I  do not agree with that judicial deci sion. On the contrary, I feel that it is not improbable that had the matter gone to a higher court the decision might have been overruled. But we face the situation as it is and the Government must move with all speed to correct the consequences of such a decision involving as it does the life, property and welfare of people innocently involved in what has been an administrative mistake. This situation recalled to me a similar situation that arose many years ago when I was in the Senate on the last occasion. I have taken the trouble to go back and look at the parliamentary records of that incident because it has an uncanny parallel to the present situation.  Senator Wright  who is sitting at the table will recall this incident because he was involved in it as a member - a most valuable and effective one - of the Regulations  and  Ordinances Committee- 
 Senator Wright  has always been an intellectual rebel and sometimes - not always - a political rebel.  Senator Wright,  on recollection and reference. will probably recall the incident. It involved regulations purporting to be made under the Air Force Act 1923-1956 and statutory rules governing the operation of Air Force canteens. I will read what happened from the parliamentary Hansard of that time when it was found necessary to introduce a Bill because of the situation that had arisen.  Senator O'sullivan  of Queensland who was the then AttorneyGeneral had this to say in his speech on the Air Force (Canteens) Bill 1957: 
The purpose of this bill is to validate the Air Force (Canteens) Regulations, which became void on 10th October, 1957, because they had not been tabled in the Parliament. 
The Regulations, being Statutory Rules 1957, No. 48, were made by the Governor-General on 31st August, 1957, and came into operation on the following day, 1st September, 1957. Section 48 (1.) of the Acts Interpretation Act requires, amongst other things, that regulations should be laid before each House of Parliament within fifteen sitting days of that House after the making of the regulations, and sub-section (3.) provides that if any regulations are not laid before each House in accordance with sub-section (1.), they shall be void and of no effect. The Air Force (Canteens) Regulations, through a departmental oversight, were not tabled within the time prescribed by law, and consequently they ceased to exist as valid law from and including 11th October, 1957. I mention here that, owing to the frequent occasions on which regulations had previously been omitted to be tabled, my department undertook, some ten years ago, the responsibility for tabling statutory rules. This is the first time since then that an omission has occurred. The administrative procedure for tabling has been further strengthened, and it is highly unlikely that a similar omission will occur in the future. 
The regulations under consideration replaced a previous set of regulations, . . . 
The Attorney-General then continued- 
He was  Senator O'sullivan.  He continued: 
The omission to table was only recently noticed, but the Royal Australian Air Force Canteens Service Board, as constituted under the lapsed regulations, has been carrying on its activities under the statutory authority that the regulations purport to provide. It is essential, therefore, that remedial action be taken to replace the statutory authority that has lapsed. 'Retrospective legislation is necessary and I am advised by my department, and concur in the advice, that the proper method of approaching the problem is by act of Parliament and not by a fresh set of regulations which, through the necessity for retrospective operation, could not be made consistently with section 48 of the Acts Interpretation Act. The regulations were avoided by act of Parliament, and as the law at present stands they must be restored by the same means 
Firstly, there are some lessons to be learnt from that. When the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  and his Department is charged, and charged in a particularly violent manner, with gross administrative incompetence, it is interesting to recall that these situations in the mass of administrative detail can occur. The one referred to there was a serious one. But it was pointed out that it was the first time that anything of that nature had occurred in many years. Whether there was any departmental failure on this occasion is quite another matter because, as has been pointed out, the decision of their Honours was on a highly technical point. I strongly doubt whether anybody would charge administrative incompetence against the Department where the basis of the matter rested finally on the judicial attitude to a highly technical departure from a requirement in a statute or in an ordinance under a statute. Therefore, I think that firstly it is salutary to make this comment, based upon what I read of the history of the other matter: This is something that is likely to occur and that has occurred in the past. Of course, the second point is that the Air Force Canteens Regulations which were the ones in question and which became involved were regulations which imposed certain duties and created certain rights in relation to the conduct of canteens. A Board was created and the power was conferred on that Board to maintain and operate the canteens service and to do these things: 
purchase, lease, hire, or otherwise acquire property; 
sell goods and merchandise, and supply and provide services, entertainment and other amenities; 
accept gifts and donations of money, and other property; 
open, conduct and close canteens, airmen's clubs, cinemas, and other institutions and facilities; 
dispose of land, buildings, stock, plant, equipment and other property acquired by, or vested in, the Board; 
invest money in securities of, or guaranteed by, the Government of the Commonwealth or of a State; 
act as the agent, in the establishment and operation of a canteen, service . . . 
make contributions in the form of gifts or advances of cash or in any other convenient form to persons or committees, . .  
do anything which is incidental to any of its powers. 
In other words, that statutory rule gave an opportunity for the creation of a multitude of legal relationships and legal situations. Of course, the moment that this statutory rule was found not to have been tabled and so ipso facto inoperative and invalid, those legal relationships aggregating over the years, acted upon, affecting the lives of people who had committed their future, money and talents, came under grave doubt. It was therefore necessary for the Government to move quickly to validate the ordinances and to put those people in the position in which they would have been had the ordinance originally been tabled in the Parliament as it should have been to comply with the statute. In the first place I think it must be made clear - the Attorney-General and  Senator Durack  have attemped to make this clear but apparently there is still a misconception - what is the difference between retrospective legislation and the retrospective validation of legislation. 
While this misapprehension occurs there will be considerable concern as to the effect of this Act in its retrospective application. After all, if I make up my mind on 1st January to create a legal situation and if I discover on 1st July that due to some technical defect I have not done so, I then set out to establish the position as it was intended to be on 1st January and as those who thought that it had been established had acted in pursuance of it in the intervening time. That is a validation procedure. But if I do not make up my mind until 1st July to create a legal situation, and having done that I then purport to make it operate as from 1st January of that year, that is a retrospective enactment. These things are altogether different. Obviously in this case this is purely a validation of an intention manifest at the time which by an operative misprocedure was not validly executed. When the statute caveat was brought into this place to validate these regulations relating to the Air Force canteens which, as I say, due to tabling were found to be invalid, the Act went on in these terms: 
An Act relating to the Air Force (Canteens) Regulations. 
Honourable senators will remember that the regulations purported to operate originally under the statutory rule as from 31st August of that year. Section 3 of the Act states: 
The Air Force (Canteens) Regulations (being Statutory Rules 1957, No. 148) are declared to be, and at all times on and after the first day of September, One thousand nine hundred and fiftyseven, to have been, of full force and effect, notwithstanding that they have not been laid before each House of Parliament in accordance with sub-section (1.) of section forty-eight of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901-1950. 
This is precisely the position in which we find ourselves today. In 1957, an ordinance having been declared to be invalid for a reason other than the reason now before us, the Parliament for good and sufficient reasons found it necessary to introduce a validating Act and specified that it should operate as if the original ordinance had been validly presented and was validly operating. 
An interesting debate occurred in the course of the presentation of that Bill. I had the pleasure of participating in it. After some minor research I discovered in a book by the late  Mr Herbert  Morrison - I think he became Lord Morrison - or the late Lord Attlee that a similar position had arisen in the House of Commons during the war, when it was decided to consolidate the fire-fighting regulations of the British Isles and particularly Scotland. It was a period of the war when Britain was virtually on her knees and large areas were in flames. It was decided to bring in a short 'Bill and then to have more extensive and more detailed regulations. By an oversight the regulations were not tabled in the House. As Lord Morrison said, this was not noticed by members of the House. It was not noticed by any peer. He then went on to say - and this is perhaps not altogether expected - that it was not noticed by the Press. Of course as a result of that oversight the regulations were invalid and it was necessary to introduce a Bill to validate them. The term is not used that it was an ex post facto validation. In Lord Morrison's book he refers to indemnity. It was necessary to bring in an indemnity, which was virtually the same thing. In other words, one indemnifies against the consequences of validating, which removes the undesirable consequence of the original invalidation. 
We have 2 examples here. One is from the House of Commons which considered that this was the most proper procedure. Even though this was done in the most dire days of Britain it had to be done in democratic form. The Minister profusely and even obsequiously apologised to the House of Commons but action was taken by validating in a retrospective manner, precisely as this Act purports to do and as the Air Force (Canteens) Act did in 1957 as I pointed out earlier. The Air Force (Canteens) Regulations of 1957 purported to create rights, liabilities and responsibilities as do the ordinances which we are now trying to resurrect into legal, viable form. When that Bill came before this place it was not opposed by the Opposition. It was not opposed by  Senator McKenna  who was perhaps one of the most distinguished lawyers who has sat in this place. He was then Leader of the Australian Labor Party Opposition. He saw the point of the measure. He supported it. He asked for some qualifications about the actual content of the regulation but there was no dispute about the process of validation. Obviously that was accepted throughout the chamber as desirable, necessary, prudent and the only effective process. Therefore I am at some loss to understand the concern which is manifest in this case. 
Today we are inclined to look at the rights of small groups in the community which seek to challenge in one way or another the ordinary processes of the community. Equally we are inclined to overlook trespass to the rights of the great numbers of people who are affected by such actions. What has been presented by the Opposition on this occasion is only another manifestation of this type of thing. I could imagine circumstances in which, if this Bill were not presented quickly, actions would lie against otherwise innocent people who in all good faith had gone about their duties and now could find themselves subject to action at law for wrongful arrest, false imprisonment or something else. I could imagine an impediment to plaintiffs in civil actions. For example, if there happened to be an ordinance in the Australian Capital Territory relating to the protection of machinery, and in a master and servant action a plaintiff alleged that a piece of machinery was not protected and therefore the master was in violation of an ordinance, such a claim would not now be available to him if the ordinance in question had been declared inoperative or invalid. In other words, the availability of statutory negligence would not be a cause of action which would be normally available to him and it would now be denied. As I see it, a whole series of consequences could flow from the action contemplated and the point of view propounded by members of the Australian Labor Party. 
For those reasons the Australian Democratic Labor Party, as it did on the procedural motions, supports the rapid presentation of this Bill. We support the validation of that great inchoate body of ordinances not altogether known and certainly not known in detail. It would take a tremendous amount of time to dissect and establish the ordinances if that were the procedure to be relied upon. This is a blanket validation which will give the proclamation of all ordinances which may have been proclaimed in a now legally insufficient form. This Bill will give those ordinances that sufficiency of proclamation to comply with the requirements of the statute. The members of my Party think that this is a prudent, wise and just step. For those reasons we will oppose the amendment which will be moved during the Committee stage and which has been propounded by the Opposition. We support the Bill. 
In the dying stages of this debate there are one or two comments I should like to make. From this very unfortunate series of events there may be at this stage some lesson we can learn, and I say that for those who have taken a position on one side or the other. The whole of our attitude !o Aborigines in this country has moved from a position of initial hostility and oppression and even cruelty in the early days of Australian settlement through a period to one of paternalism from which we are now resiling. Our paternalism of course is the treatment accorded by a superior to an inferior and derives from the word 'father' it involved first of all a degree of indulgence and tolerance, a degree of being prepared to allow things which are not accorded in other circumstances. In our desire to try to give social justice to the Aboriginal people we moved at one stage to a position of paternalism, and that nas now been discovered to be an approach which is highly undesirable. The idea nf w in modern terms, and the anthropologists and the social psychologists all agree, is that the proper method is to try to integrate the Aboriginal people into modern society until we can create a totally homogeneous society and until the stream of their lives and culture can merge into the streams of the traditional Australian life and culture. 
That involves the abandonment of the element of paternalism, for if paternalism is that exercise of understanding and tolerance which is accorded by a superior to an inferior, it is an understanding and tolerance which has certain implications. If we want the Aborigines to integrate with our society in the fullest sense of the term, then they must be prepared to integrate, and it is what we should want on the basis of both duty and entitlement. Once you put them in a different position, whether a position of discrimination adverse to them or in a position of discrimination favourable to them, you are perpetuating the system of paternalism and at the same time destroying or moving away from the new concept which we are all trying to adopt, that is, of integration into our community. That goes to the question of movement within the law. The moment you put the Aborigines in a different position in relation to respect for law and order, you are immediately demonstrating to them a tolerance which is not accorded to other members of the community. The moment you do that you abandon your whole plan and programme. Therefore those people, particularly members of the Australian Labor Party Opposition, who saw the problem differently should, I think, at this stage recognise the final conclusions and implications that may arise from their attitude. 
This type of conduct must by its nature be an affront to the dignity of the Aboriginal people. It must still in the concept of the white people in our community and in their thinking put them in an inferior position, which is the very thing that we do not want and that they do not want - the thing which we are not entitled to infer and which they are not entitled to receive and which they do not want to receive. The Aborigines want a position of equality to which they are entitled, and integration in our society. Therefore to those who have suggested that in this form of protest they should be accorded a solicitude and a tolerance which is denied to other sections of the community who similarly want to protest on issues which are relevant to their interests in life, I say that once they do that they are putting the Aborigines in a position different from that of the rest of the community; they are contradicting the whole of their thesis on racial integration, they are contradicting the whole of their thesis on toleration and the whole of their thesis on the ultimate integration of the Aboriginal people with the white culture. 
Therefore I say in these last few minutes that those who have supported the Aborigines in this programme and in this type of protest should have second thoughts about it, to see if by doing that they have not in fact done a great deal of harm to the campaign of these people and to the campaign of the Australian community for the ultimate total absorption of our indigenous people in our culture without any distinctions or differences. If we can at least learn that lesson from the whole of this unfortunate incident then I believe we will have made a big advance towards the final acceptance of what is the best method, the best technique and the best programme for achieving the purpose we have in mind. At least if those who saw differently learn that lesson from the whole of this series of situations something worth while will have emerged and our advance towards the final solution of this very very difficult problem will be much closer to accomplishment. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry or the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I preface my question by adverting to the growing importance of Asian trade to Australia and the consequences of the emergence of the European Economic Community lo Australian and New Zealand trade. I ask the appropriate Minister: Are any steps being taken in discussions with New Zealand to extend the present New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement to the development of a customs union, which would result in a common external tariff policy for both dominions? 
 I second the amendment moved by  Senator Little.  I propose to direct a few brief remarks to the first proposition contained in the amendment, as  Senator Little  addressed his remarks primarily to the second and third propositions. The amendment begins:  but the Senate is  of  the  opinion  that a just, adequate and comprehensive  social  welfare system can be achieved only by the creation  of  a contributory national superannuation scheme. . . . 
The whole history of pensions in Australia has been one of chronic dissatisfaction, of periodic adjustments and always frustration, disappointment and protest. This position is inevitably going to arise, despite the second proposition that we enunciate for the fixation of pensions by a tribunal, which is at least one step along the path of progress, until we have a comprehensive national superannuation scheme. We have been proposing this in the Democratic Labor Party for some years and we feel that we are now reaching the point of a possible realisation of this scheme. There have been reports in newspapers attributed - either directly, indirectly or by inference - to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  which show that he has in mind and in planning the introduction of a national insurance and national superannuation scheme. We urge upon the Government the desirability of adopting our proposition. It is the only way in which the position can finally be remedied. It is the only way in which we can eliminate these constantly recurring social traumas in the community. As  Senator Little  has said, the Democratic Labor Party often has projected forward looking social and other policies. We feel that this is one of them. National attention to a national superannuation scheme now has a very long and receding history in this country. To my knowledge it was proposed originally by Lord Casey when he was Treasurer, The suggestion went a certain distance but was then abandoned, and it was not resurrected until the Democratic Labor Party did so. 
It was never implemented and was not resurrected until the Democratic Labor Party, finding a parliamentary presence in this place, produced the proposition. Since then it has been constantly in amendments that we have projected. Constantly it has appeared in our policy speeches and it appears again in this amendment today. We do urge upon the Government that it give earnest consideration to the project which obviously now has been studied in depth and has been the subject, as we understand it, of a recommendation from the Minister for Social Services. We can see no good reason why we should not accept such a scheme and adopt it quickly and comprehensively for the elimination of all these problems that cause perhaps more friction in this place than most other issues. I do not know why the Government would hesitate for one moment to support such a scheme and to implement it in the fullest sense of the term. 
It is not my intention to prolong the attention of the Senate to this matter. It has been discussed in consideration of the Bill and by  Senator Little  in propounding this amendment. We commend its 3 elements to the Senate. We trust that the amendment will have the support of honourable senators from both sides, including our good friends, the Independents. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Little's amendment)  be added. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports this group of Bills. I wish to make only a few minor observations. The concept and content of these Bills represent part of the economic plan of the Government as well as giving certain relief to promote activity in the community and to stimulate consumer opportunities generally. In view of this very strange, more modern phenomenon of stagflation, it will be interesting to see exactly how these Bills work out and whether this remedy applied at the proper time effects the result which it is desired to achieve. I think that the reduction in taxation at this time is commendable. It is just, and it is desirable that people in the categories in which such reductions are to apply should have been relieved of some of the burden of taxation. 
I wish to make one or two minor comments, not particularly germane to the provisions of the Bill. The first is to ask the reason for the constant refusal of governments to accept the increasing burden that the working community is required to pay in transport fees to and from places of employment. Today we are living in a society where the decentralisation of industry is being attempted and people are moving more and more into the remote suburbs of the great metropolises. As a result, workers are required sometimes to travel across the city to their places of work. One of the great phenomena of our time is the level to which transport charges have increased. Workers are now required to bring their labour to the point of employment at great cost with tremendous depredation of their weekly income. No concession is allowed for the amounts paid by them for this purpose. 
I have always thought that that was unjust. I think surely that it is a concept which should now be taken into account by those who frame the income tax law. A new approach should be adopted to it. After all, money which is expended in the earning of income is traditionally, and by the very nature and intent of income tax law, allowable as a deduction from the amount of assessed tax. I see no reason why expenditure of this kind should not move into the same category, more particularly as the burden is imposed upon those who are least able to bear it. J think that there is every justification for this concession being granted. Another observation 1 should like to make concerns the preparation of taxation statistics. I think it is important that the community should know the categories of employment, occupations and engagements in which incomes are being earned and on which taxation is being paid. At different times over the years I have asked whether the breakdown of taxation statistics should not include a more particular discrimination in occupation and a fragmentation in professional occupation so that the community could see the levels of incomes in the various categories. In my opinion this would not break the principle of confidence. It would inform the community and could indicate to those who wish to follow certain professions or to pursue certain vocations where the opportunities lie. 
I see no reason why secrecy should be taken to that extent. There would be no violation of individual private confidence, merely an exhibition of levels of income earned by various categories. When we as legislators consider the incidence of taxation surely we are entitled to the fullest possible information as to the areas of income earned and the levels of income opportunity. However, for some reason best known to himself, the Commissioner for Taxation has consistently denied that request. Whatever the virtues of such denial might be there is ultimately, 1 think, a deprivation of an opportunity to those who have the responsibility for framing equitable, just and distributive taxation laws to do their job more adequately. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the income tax Bills because, as 1 have said, we think they are both timely and just. There may be other adjustments which are equally desirable, but certain concessional deductions and the raising of certain levels of exemption from tax are very desirable. We are hopeful, while not speaking politically or Party politically but in the interests of the nation, that the techniques which are applied partially by these Bills will have the effect which is contemplated. We are hopeful that this process of stagflation and of erosion of purchasing power and the other processes which are operating to the detriment of the community will at least in part be halted by this process and that they will make a due contribution and that the real value of income will again be sustained. For those reasons we support the Bills. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party is particularly involved in this matter. The Bill which originally came before the Senate related to an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States in connection with softwood forestry and its purpose was to re-write an agreement lor the provision of money by the Commonwealth to the States to assist with reafforestation. Annexed to that Bill was the Agreement negotiated between the Commonwealth and the States, to be finally concluded by signature. The Democratic Labor Party was concerned that the Agreement contained no provision to the effect that the other parties to it, or the Commonwealth, should have regard to environmental factors when the Agreement was negotiated and when the money was being provided or that '.hat should be a condition precedent to the provision of the money. 
For that reason, when the Bill was last before this chamber we moved an amendment to clause 9 of the Agreement by which we substituted a new clause 9 and added clause 9a. That amendment was adopted by this chamber. The Bill was returned to the House of Representatives. lt has been considered by that House, which has not seen its way clear to adopt the amendment as proposed and carried here. The Bill has now come back to this chamber with a proposed amendment which does one important thing. It does not go as far as our amendment would go, but it does write in a provision which was suggested by the Government and carried by the House of Representatives. Originally clause 9 of the Agreement read: 
The State shall ensure that planting during each year is carried out efficiently and in conformity with sound forestry and financial practices. 
That has now been amended by the House of Representatives by the addition of the following words:  and shall ensure that environmental factors relating to the planting have been considered. 
In other words, the Agreement which is now contemplated for conclusion between the Commonwealth and the States requires that the States shall take environmental factors rft to consideration when afforestation with softwoods is being considered, natural areas are being interfered with and natural forests are being destroyed. 
This is the first occasion, to my knowledge, on which the environmental factor has been introduced into legislation. As I have said, this is of particular concern to members of the Democratic Labor Party. It is very gratifying to us because, of all the parties in the Parliament, we were the first to introduce in a national policy speech a programme of national conservation. For a party of the dimensions of our Party compared with the major parties, that is somewhat of an achievement. Our contribution in this field has not been minor by any means.  Senator Little,  my colleague from Victoria, was a member of the Senate select committee that investigated the matter of air pollution. I had the pleasure of serving on the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution which was chaired by  Senator Davidson.  Our service on those committees, coupled with our national programme and policy on conservation, demonstrates that the Democratic Labor Party has been intimately associated with this new and very vital question which only now is receiving continuous national and international attention at the highest levels. 
That is why, when this Bill came before this chamber originally, we proposed that environmental factors should be considered in the conclusion of the agreements. We hoped that the matter of whether or not the environmental factors were considered adequately by a State would go to an independent authority. The reasons that have been put forward as to why that would not be acceptable are valid and compelling, in our view, and that persuades us not to pursue the whole of our original proposition but to accept the amendment which is now before us and which is based on that proposition and does take into account the environmental factors. 
The reasons that have prompted us to adopt this position are as follows: This is an agreement which is written, one might say, halfway through the currency of the existing agreement. Forestry is a type of project that has to be planned some time ahead. If we were now to write into this Agreement the proposition of an independent authority assessing the environmental consequences, it might interrupt the whole of the current planting and, because of the time that would be involved, might well require the displacement of labour and the interruption of certain forestry projects. I think that would be a completely undesirable and indefensible thing to precipitate. If we have the principle accepted, that environmental factors should be considered and that that shall be written into the next agreement as it begins to run which will be in 1976, we can claim that we have really been responsible for a major achievement. 
I do not intend to pursue this matter at length. 1 merely reiterate the point that we have been responsible - we take great credit for this - for introducing the consider ation of environmental factors into Commonwealth legislation in this specific way for perhaps the first time. Those who were very interested in this matter and who originally were very anxious that we should put forward the proposition are satisfied that a great deal has been accomplished and that this will be the beginning of the consideration of environmental factors in many fields in the future. 

 - Senator Webster's point is well made. 1 think that in some way the Slates have been somewhat in advance of the Commonwealth in their solicitude for environmental protection. 
I said that the Democratic Labor Party was the first party to put such a programme into a national policy speech and, to my knowledge, we were the first to introduce it legislatively in this Parliament. Where the States have done it - of course, they have - I do not take the credit away from them. I am disappointed in relation to the report of the Select Committee on Water Pollution, which contemplated the creation, in cooperation with the States, of a national body projecting the concept of cooperative federalism and not using the overriding powers that the Commonwealth might be able to aggregate under the various heads of power in the Constitution. To my knowledge, that proposal has not been implemented with the enthusiasm and at the level that we members of the Committee hoped it would be. We feel that, because of our strange constitutional situation, the protection of the environment is not a matter that can be handled without the closest co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. 
Yes. 
 Yes. We do not change our positions. But that is not particularly germane now. That was a general proposition which I supported when I spoke to the Bill originally. We are now considering a specific amendment in Committee and it would be a digression to deal with matters of that kind. I am directing my remarks particularly to the adoption by the Government and the House of Representatives of a principle which initially was in a different form but which has been adopted substantially as we proposed it originally. That is extraordinarily gratifying to us. I know that the conservationists - of whom there are many associated with our Party, as there are associated with all political parties; it is a growing movement with developing enthusiasm - will be gratified to see the national recognition in this form and the fact that the Commonwealth has now insisted that, in an agreement between the Commonwealth and the Slates for the provision of money to the States for afforestation, there be a requirement that the environmental factors shall be taken into account. This will be regarded as a very great advance in the field of the conservation of the environment generally. 
For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party supports the amendment as propounded in the House of Representatives, carried by that House and now presented to this chamber for confirmation. We do not pursue our original amendment which has been adopted substantially and in principle in the amendment we are now considering. We think that it will improve the Agreement. We know that the closest cooperation will be received from the States. We have every reason to expect that this form of words will not be regarded merely as such but that there will be due regard for environmental factors in terms of the amendment, under which the Agreement will provide that the States shall ensure that environmental factors relating to the planting have been considered. This will operate really as a condition precedent to the money being made available. The States will, in honour, regard it as such. Therefore, we can see a new future in the attitude to the protection of the environment consonant with national development. 1 make this final point: We must recognise that there must always be a coinci dence of the demands of national development and of the protection of the environment. One cannot be completely submerged to the domination of the other. Finding that balance, in prudence and wisdom, in the conservation and custody of our national heritage is of tremendous importance and is very difficult. It can be done with sufficient good will, wisdom and judgment. The Democratic Labor Party welcomes and supports the amendment now proposed to the Agreement. 
Sitting suspended from S.4S to 8 p.m. 
This is a very significant measure to come before the Senate for debate. It relates to a fundamental change in the approach of the whole Australian nation to the participation by large sections of the community in the electoral process and therefore in the processes of government. The activity in support of extending the franchise to younger people of the age of 18 years and over is of rather recent origin. Perhaps it stems from the greater participation of youth in modern affairs and their more intense articulation in their interests and activities, their hopes, desires and aspirations. May it be said on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party that before that increased level of activity was demonstrated we had this principle in our platform. Many years ago, from about 1963 I think, our platform included the point that the franchise should be extended to younger people. That is why on this occasion, as we indicated earlier in this debate, we support the proposition presented in the Bill brought to this chamber by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  on behalf of the official Opposition, the Australian Labor Party. 
However, the Democratic Labor Party proposes an amendment to the motion 'that the Bill be now read a second time'. 1 move: 
At end of motion add -  , but the Senate is of the opinion that 
While the extension of the franchise to young people of the age of 18 years and under 21 years will provide for a more accurate reflection of the relevant opinion of electors the most accurate and democratic means of ensuring the equitable Parliamentary representation in the House of Representatives of substantial bodies of political opinion in the community is by the electoral system of proportional representation voting for election to that House; 
the selection of positions on ballot papers for House of Representatives elections should be by draw instead of by alphabetical order; 
where requested by a candidate party identification should appear beside the name of each candidate on the ballot paper; 
a candidate who is a Commonwealth Public Servant should not be required to resign at the time of nomination but only if elected; 
polling hours should be changed from 8 a.m.-8 p.m. to 8 a.m.-6 p.m.; and 
the deposit of a candidate for election to either House should be reduced to $30 or alternatively the voting percentage requirement for the return of a deposit to an unsuccessful candidate should be lowered'. 
At the appropriate time I shall indicate how we propose the Senate might deal with this amendment. But now T come back to the main theme of the Bill which is to extend the franchise to young people of or above the age of 18 years. I think the Senate is indebted to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who spoke on behalf of the Government and the appropriate Minister, the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt),  for his considered and objective approach to this matter. This highlights the fact that this is an area of considerable doubt and some degree of hesitation. There is a great variety and difference of opinion on the desirability of extending the franchise as is proposed in this Bill or, for that matter, extending it to anyone below the age of 21 years even though he may be above the age of 18 years. There may be as many opinions as there are people. 
The opinion of the Australian Democratic Labor Party is that the franchise should be extended to young people above the age of 18 years. The reasons which have been canvassed by the Minister for Civil 
Aviation in that considered and thoughtful speech are considerations which prompt us - as no doubt they prompt the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the Opposition in part - to the position which they and we adopt, that is, the earlier maturation of young people in modern society, physically, psychologically and intellectually. That is the outcome of our way of life. It is the outcome of advanced systems of education, new techniques in the transmission of learning and new responsibilities which have been imposed on young people because of their much earlier participation as operatives in the work force and in school vocations. They very early go to work and assume responsibility. They earn money for themselves. Very often they make domestic establishments away from the family. There may be disputes on whether that is desirable but it does happen. They handle their own budgets and plan their own careers. Therefore there is a greater and earlier maturation. In addition, there is a greater and more incipient acceptance of social, domestic and personal responsibility. If that is so, then it is realistic that such young people if they exhibit these qualities and accept these responsibilities should be given the greater responsibility - perhaps the greater duty - of participating in the government of their country by the use of the electoral process, by the exercise of the franchise in the election of governments and, therefore, in the control of the national destiny. That is one of the considerations canvassed by the Minister. He was not being dogmatic on the matter but was saying that this was a valid consideration which all those who approached this matter objectively and thoughtfully would take into account. 
I cannot accept the proposition that because there is uncertainty in the States that should in any way affect the decision of the Commonwealth Government. Obviously there are areas of State doubt. The States which have that doubt will look to the Commonwealth Government to give the lead and to take a stand on this. I would say that if that were done very quickly it would be followed by the States which so far have not considered it fit and proper to extend the franchise.  Senator Cotton  instanced, for example, the difficulty which might be presented in relation to the jury roll in New South Wales. Of course, nothing like that would be an insuperable barrier. The composition of the jury roll is within State jurisdiction. If New South Wales in its wisdom were to decide that a prospective juryman under its present law were to be taken from the federal roll, and if the federal roll prescribed enrolment at 18, it would be very easy for State legislation to exclude those in a particular section - even if they were on the federal roll - from being available for jury service. Nothing like that would be a difficulty, much less an insuperable obstacle. 
I think that in these things the nation will look ultimately to the Federal Government which has resources at its command. Because of the effect it will have in making uniform what should be uniform, I think the Commonwealth has a responsibility to take the lead. I agree that the political consequences of any variation in the electoral age should not be a factor which determines our actions. As a matter of fact, gallup polls very often contradict impressions. Various opinions are held on whether the new youthful electors will vote conservatively or radically. Many polls show that they would vote conservatively and many show that they would vote radically. There is no definitive opinion on this and there cannot be until they are actually tested at an election. 
I agree. I think that is a very opportune and pertinent question. Actually when I speak of polls to my knowledge - I am not very familiar with them - I do not think any type of professional poll has been conducted in this field. Most of the polls have been taken by newspapers and naturally would be unscientific. They would be a canvass of young people on what they think about this. 
While a university may have statisticians at its command, it may not be experienced in the art of interrogation so an answer will be received which may not reflect the disposition of the elector. That is an innocent matter, but nevertheless it takes a high degree of professional skill to be able to ascertain objectively the opinion of the person who asked without that opinion being influenced by the conscious or subconscious transmission of the view and attitude of the interrogator. Therefore I think we must say that as yet there has been no definitive assessment of what is likely to be the electoral response of young people if they are given the franchise. On the question of whether it is timely, I suppose that no time is timely. But if the young people are developing as I suggested earlier in my address; if they are participating more and more in the affairs of life; if they are assuming responsibilities earlier than they did; if they are managing their own affairs; if there has already been an extension in other areas of life - for example, the extension of the testamentary capacity and in other fields of law which confer rights on minors, those under 21 - then I would think there is a body of opinion and experience building up which would appear to justify the next step which is the extension of the franchise to such young people. 
I wonder what the response of the young people would be? I do not mean their political response in whether they would vote this way or that. But what would be the level of interest of young people? This concerns me. I know that there will be a section of young people who will be intensely interested in politics. I suppose that most honourable senators in this chamber, as young people, were interested in politics. That is why ultimately we found our way here. There will be a corresponding group in the community today. There will be a group which is wedded to other campaigns in which the extension of the franchise to youth is only one matter. Whatever their ultimate motive may be, this will be taken as one weapon to be used. Perhaps their attitude is not so defensible, not so desirable and not so much to be encouraged. Then I think there will be a great group which will not be politically interested. They are young people who are intent on their studies, making their careers, planning their young lives, trying to earn income and studying at night. Perhaps they do not have the time to give to politics the attention which a proper and intelligent exercise of the franchise would demand. 1 admire the young people. I criticise them for some things but I admire the modern young people for their sense of realism. 1 think they in great numbers would be the first to realise that perhaps they are not completely equipped and informed to make the definitive judgment which they themselves would acknowledge the intelligent exercise of the franchise would demand if it is to be properly and fruitfully exercised. I think a great body of young people, therefore, would have this response. 
A great number of them possibly rely still on the opinions and guidance of their parents. I do not mean that in any sense that they lack a spirit of independence or have an inability to make up their minds. However, 1 think we must recognise that perhaps they have not been able to give their attention to the study of the personalities, policies and principles of political parties and, still being young people who look with respect and regard to the opinions of their elders, particularly parents whom they admire, will rely in a great degree, initially, anyhow, upon the views and opinions of their parents. But this, as I say. is a shadowland of speculation and nobody can quite say just how the young people would vote or how they would respond to such electoral opportunity as a Bill such as this would hand out to them. 
But none of those is a reason, in my opinion, to prevent or preclude us from going ahead with legislation such as this. I think ultimately the response of the young people possibly would be valuable, it probably would be considered and 1 think that possibly it would have a somewhat dramatic effect on the attitude of parliamentary candidates at elections. Therefore, the Democratic Labor Party, without canvassing in any greater detail those things which prompt us to support the proposed legislation, indicates that it will support it and commend it to the Senate. However, as 1 indicated in the amendment which I read and which has been circulated, the Democratic Labor Party is concerned about certain trends in this community. These trends perhaps could be corrected in some measure by a proper, logical and democratic approach to the electoral system. 
We find some significant developments in the Australian community and perhaps in other modern communities. One significant thing is that there are groups within our community  -  I do not mean groups of violence or groups who have completely way-out ideas which are supported by zealots dedicated to extraordinary causes - who are intelligent and serious but excited and who no longer find their political accommodation in any of the existing political accommodation in any of the. existing political parties, whether it is the Libera! Party, the Country Party, the Australian Labor Party or the Democratic Labor Party. Therefore we are finding all sorts of manifestations. Two manifestations which we are finding are the emergence of some smaller parties and the entry of independents into the political life of Australia and into this chamber. In addition to thai we find groups which are prepared to take government into the streets because they at least claim that they have no adequate political voice. Assuming that that is an honest statement of their attitude, we can see that if there are significant groups in the community which have not the opportunity for adequate, relevant and appropriate political representation, they are going to find government outside Parliament. That could be a tremendous challenge to the whole of our parliamentary democratic system. 
The only answer to that is to have an electoral system which as accurately as possible within the confines of practicability and practical operation shall reflect the diversity of opinion which is now growing up in our modern sophisticated community. There was a time in this community when the issues were very clear. They were stark and they were limited in number. There were, substantially, the haves and the havenots. But since then there has been a complete transformation of the whole of our social order. Today the simple problems of survival or of poverty are not the only problems. Today on everybody's breakfast table will be the problems of Egypt, Israel Vietnam, Bangladesh and the European Economic Community. World problems are now brought to our breakfast tables every morning. With the development of a more sophisticated, better educated and intelligent community people are taking attitudes on questions which once were not a matter of concern or interest to the Australian community. We will find major groups developing, allied on ideological grounds, economic grounds or some other kind of grounds in respect of various causes throughout the world. There could be possibly a multiplicity of such groups but we could not possibly give them all political representation. 
But there are big groups of people who feel that they cannot find parliamentary articulation for what they regard as very important questions. The only way to give them the opportunity of parliamentary expression, the only way in which this diversity of opinion can find expression in the halls of Parliament, is by an electoral system that will reflect in a large measure what I would call this diversity of view and this diversity of attitude. Perhaps first in the field to do that was our own Party, the Democratic Labor Party, which does represent, and increasingly so, an expanding segment of the national population and the national point of view. 
I know that there are various views. We have risen to 5 senators from 1, 2 or 3. It would appear that in the processes of history this Party is going to expand and our numbers increase. This is an inference that can quite legitimately be drawn from our rather short political history. That is one instance. Only recently we have found the Australia Party, in areas where it has put up a candidate at an election, obtaining a rather significant fraction of the vote. That cannot be purely coincidental; there must be some reason for that. Obviously the reason is that there are people who are disenchanted with the Government parties in the coalition and with the Australian Labor Party and who do not find acceptance in our Party, so they have created their own political party. 
I admit that there would be total instability in government were we to give representation politically to every small fragment in the community - we could not do it - but there are groups which, on a proper system. if they are of particular significance and are sufficiently numerous, could have adequate political representation. I think that would bring a variety of richness to parliamentary life and a stability to the Australian community which now may well be lost in this challenge to parliamentary authority by those outside Parliament who find that the vehicle of their expression is demonstration in the streets and a violation and defiance of law and order. This is one practical way, we feel, in which this type of thing might well be overcome. 
Take the position of our own Party. The Democratic Labor Party is represented in all States. We are a national party. We present candidates in every electorate, virtually, in the House of Representatives and we always present a full team of candidates for Senate elections. As a result of that our representation in the National Parliament is the 5 senators who sit in this chamber and have done so for the last 2 years. Before that there were 3 senators and earlier than that there was one. But when we analyse the situation and look at the aggregate vote that this Party receives we find a very dangerous situation when a party which commands such a big proportion of the national vote is not able to obtain a seat in the people's house, the House of Representatives. If that process goes on, not in relation to our Party but generally, the Parliament inevitably is going to become less and less representative. In that event the people will vote for a party, although it may not represent their views and although it may not be the party they want, because it is the best they can have. That will be the outcome of the political electoral system. 
If honourable senators will bear with me I shall read a few figures to demonstrate how the present electoral system is operating most adversely, most undemocratically and most harshly against the minority party, which happens to be our Party. At the Senate general election on 22nd November 1958 the Democratic Labor Party received 387,792 votes. That would be a vote equivalent possibly to the population of Perth, or perhaps more than the population of Perth. I do not know what the population of Perth is. As a result of that tremendous vote the DLP returned one member to the Senate, although it had polled 8.41 per cent of the aggregate vote at that Senate election. In 1961 the DLP received 472,578 votes, which was 9.82 per cent of the total vote, but it was not able to have one candidate elected to the Senate. 
Yes. I want to emphasise that I do not intend my remarks to be critical of the Country Party; 1 am just attempting to show how the Democratic Labor Party's vote is distributed and the Country Party's vote is concentrated. In that Senate election the Liberal-Country Party received 2 million votes or 44 per cent of the vote and its candidates were successful in winning 15 scats. In 1961 the Liberal-Country League- 
The figures 1 have in front of me are for the Senate general election in 1961. They indicate that the Australian Labor Party put up 18 candidates and obtained 14 seats with 12.15 million votes or 44.71 per cent of the vote. The way in which the voting pattern is classified after that in the documents I have in front of me is: Communist Party, Country Democratic League, Democratic Labor Party and Liberal-Country League. I do not know from what publication these figures were taken. 
That could not be correct because there would not have been 2 million votes for the Labor Party in South Australia. Obviously these are generic term. Let us have a look at what happened in the Senate election in 1964. The Democratic Labor Party received 433,51 1 votes and 2 of its candidates were elected. The Liberal-Country Party received 2.3 million votes and 14 of its candidates were elected. In other words, the LiberalCountry Party received 45 per cent of the vote and obtained almost 50 per cent of the seats. The Democratic Labor Party received 8 per cent of the vote and obtained only one-fifteenth of the seats. In the Senate election of 1967 the DLP received 540,000 votes or 9.77 per cent of the vote and obtained 2 seats. The Australian Labor Party obtained 13 seats, although it received only 45 per cent of the vote. That is the history of the Senate elections. I need not continue in that vein. 
Perhaps the figures more illustrative of the proposition I am putting are those for House of Representatives elections. At the House of Representatives general election on 30th November 1963 the Democratic Labor Party received 407,416 votes or 7.4 per cent of the total and obtained no seats at all. In other words, the 407.000 adult Australians who wanted the DLP were not able to secure one representative in the lower House of the national Parliament. At the same election - I repeat that I am not being critical of it - the Country Party received 489,000 votes or about 82,000 votes more than the Democratic Labor Party and obtained 20 seats. 
I think that is a fair comment. That could be right. But in the country electorates there would be some Liberal Party votes which would counterpoise that argument to some degree. In the House of Representatives election of 1966 the Country Party received 561,000 votes and obtained 21 seats; the Democratic Labor Party received 417,411 votes but obtained no seats. 
That is so. In the last House of Representatives election, which was held in 1969, the DLP received 367,977 votes and obtained no seats at all, whereas the Country Party had the usual record in relation to its vote. I am not being critical of the Country Party, the Liberal Party or the Australian Labor Party. What I am pointing out is that there must be something basically wrong with an electoral system that permits half a million adult Australians to go without political representation in the people's House. That cannot be considered in any sense to be a democratic electoral system. 
The present electoral system has been in existence for a long time under many types of governments - Liberal-Country Party, Nationalist Party and Australian Labor Party governments, and it still persists. But its historical record does not make it any more valid or give it any more justification. If in a modern community groups similar to the Democratic Labor Party are developing and are continuing to be denied reasonable political representation in the people's House then we can expect tremendous frustrations and agitations outside of the Parliament, with all the challenges to the stability of the Parliament that inevitably will accompany that position. 
The Democratic Labor Party acknowledges the proposition put forward by  Senator Murphy  in his Bill. What is the principle of that Bill? It is that there is a large segment of the community - the young people between 18 and 21 years of age - which is politically mature enough to participate in the electoral process, in the process of government, and which has no direct representation because it has no opportunity to vote. The Democratic Labor Party feels it is appropriate to move this amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time because it believes that the amendment involves the same principle as the Bill, only in a different form. That there are on occasions over half a million adults who do not have the political representation in the Parliament that their vote indicates they want is, I think, a very serious position. I know that the acceptance of this amendment is of importance to my Party, but the system of voting we project is not unique. As a matter of fact, an examination of the situation in Australia will reveal that the proportional representation system prevails in many parts of the country. I notice that  Senator Marriott  is present in the chamber. One State in which it prevails is Tasmania. 
I do not know about that. I do not know whether the honourable senator was disenchanted with the Government of his political complexion when it was in office for some years. The Australian Labor Party is now in govern ment in that State. It is a system that obviously has great merit. We have the same system for elections to this chamber. It has been responsible for the entry of 5 senators who represent half a million adults. After all, if one takes into consideration not only the adults in a family but also their children, one could say that the Democratic Labor Party represents between one million and one and a quarter million people. The electoral system in the Senate has also been responsible for bringing to this chamber  Senator Turnbull  as an Independent,  Senator Townley  as an Independent and  Senator Negus  as an Independent. Obviously there are people in Australia who want candidates of independent views, not associated with political parties, in the Parliament. But only an electoral system such as the one we have for this chamber has been able to produce that result, although the same result has been achieved on rare occasions in some of the States legislatures. For example, it has been achieved in Queensland and in different circumstances in other places. 
Everybody speaks of the new look of the Australian Senate; of how much more effective it is; of how much more active it is; and of how its work today is making a great contribution to the parliamentary process and to the process of government. This is not just because the DLP happens to be the centre group. There could be any other group - call it the X Party. The Senate has been able to function in its new guise because there is an uncommitted party group which has been able to persuade the Government to accept things which I think a government of any complexion in complete numerical control of this chamber probably would not accept. I repeat that I am not saying this simply because the Democratic Labor Party happens to be that group. The same thing would have happened if there had been any other uncommitted group in the same situation. In saying that I am not denigrating the contribution that honourable senators from the major political parties have made to the functioning of the Senate under its new guise. Of course, if the party in Opposition were in complete numerical control the Senate would not be workable in that sense and might have to be dissolved. That the viability of the Senate has been made possible in its new form only by the presence of an uncommitted intermediate group is in itself a major justification for the promotion of the electoral process of proportional representation. That is why the Democratic Labor Party has decided to urge upon the Senate that this principle which is outlined in the form of my amendment, be accepted quite divorced from parly politics, quite divorced from old traditions and quite divorced from the conservatism of the old system, but as one which is appropriate to the modern community in which we live, one which will reflect the diversification of our modern community and its increasing sophistication and one which will make a much more fruitful contribution to the parliamentary and political process. 
We can expect, perhaps more rapidly than we imagine, that there will be an expansion of the membership of the Australian Parliament. I think that the work load of our Parliament is such that there may be a need for some further expansion in the number of members of Parliament. I do not know. But if that happens and if there is to be an expansion, I think that it would be appropriate that it be under any system of proportional representation. 
Our Party took the stand at the time of the referendum on the proposal to break the nexus between the House of Representatives and the Senate that we opposed the abandoning of the ratio between membership of the Senate and the House of Representatives. 
 Yes. I was not a member of the Parliament at that time. But  1  always felt that there was one dangerous element in breaking that nexus. It is this: Because of the tremendous powers under the Constitution of the Senate, and because it has the total power of veto of the lower House - it has been said that the Senate is the most powerful second chamber in the world - an increase in the membership of the House of Representatives without an increase in the membership of the Senate would result in an increasing concentration of power, particularly the power of veto, in a House whose numbers were diminishing relative to those of the people's House. For that reason, apart from the undesirability at the stage of the referendum of increasing the number of parliamentarians, the breaking of the nexus may have been extremely unwise. 
 Later when the Bill is in the Committee stage, if the amendment that I have moved is carried, certain amendments will be proposed by my Party in respect of the matter raised by the honourable senator. It will be noticed that the question of proportional representation has not been spelt out or specified in detail because it would be highly complex. To attempt to do so by an amendment moved in these circumstances might be unwise and possibly would be totally unsuccessful. What the system would be, I would not know. But I would imagine off hand that every State would be one electorate with divisions within it, possibly with some mutation of the Hare-Clark system in Tasmania or some qualification of a system such as that. My remarks are purely speculative and personal. They have not been thought through in any depth. 
I have spoken at considerable length. But I merely wish to state what is the position. Honourable senators will have before them the amendment which we have projected. The amendment adds to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I turn to paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) of the amendment. Probably it is not necessary for me to expand on those to any degree. 
 I will comment on them. Paragraph (2) of the amendment reads:  the selection of positions on ballot papers for House of Representatives elections should be by draw instead of by alphabetical order. 
That might be so. But at least it is to our credit that we have not allowed our own Party considerations to affect our judgment of what is wise and proper in the circumstances. I appreciate the implied compliment that the honourable senator has paid me. Obviously, the selection of positions by alphabetical order is the last resort- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder! 
The selection of positions on the ballot paper by alphabetical order is probably the last resort of the lazy and the unimaginative. As Senate ballot paper positions are drawn by ballot, I do not see any reason why positions for candidates on the House of Representatives ballot paper also should not be drawn by ballot. 
-I am not aware of it. But 1 would say that again that is not a consideration which should inhibit us if we wish to be pioneers in this field as 1 said in relation to proportional representation or in relation to granting the right to vote to 18-year-olds. We should not be inhibited to pioneer any change because of the fact that we would be the first. 
Paragraph (3) of my amendment reads:  where requested by a candidate Party identification should appear beside the name  of  each candidate on the ballot paper. 
Those who have been scrutineers at elections and those who hand out 'how to vote' cards or 'vote thus' cards, as they are called in Victoria, know that people come along to a polling place and say that they want to vote for Party A, Party B or Party C. They are given a 'how to vote' card for the party of their choice. The distribution of these cards in itself places a tremendous burden on Party organisations. Very often candidates must go on hands and knees to get friends and acquaintances to help them because their Party organisations often do not measure up- 
I have seen plenty of polling booths unmanned by Party repre sentatives. They have been unmanned by members of the Australian Labor Party and all parties. But people today- 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  it is becoming very difficult for me to address the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Order! I ask that honourable senators maintain order in the course of the speech being delivered by  Senator Byrne,  otherwise I will be forced to name any honourable senator who offends. 
There was an interjection to the effect that the Australian Labor Party has no difficulty in finding polling booth workers. I said I have seen polling booths which have been unmanned by workers from all parties, sometimes the Australian Labor Party and other parties. This is a burden on all political parties. People come along now and again and say that they want to vote for a particular candidate but so often they want to vote for a particular party. All electoral propaganda has been for political parties. The names of those parties have been projected on television, radio and in the newspapers. Voters are handed ballot papers which do not show political party designations. A number of people are quite confused and do not know which candidate represents which party. I think that what we propose here is the rational thing to do. Honourable senators will recall that I had the opportunity last year of being in Vietnam when the elections were held there. The voting system there is different fromours. The Vietnamese have what is called a 'slate', which is really a ballot paper already marked. A whole group of these slates is available and the voter selects the one which depicts the way in which he wishes to vote and puts it in his envelope. 
Some slates have symbols, some have semantic descriptions and some have photographs for people who cannot read or write. But that is not exactly the point. The point is that the party designation appears by symbol or otherwise and people could vote for a party. We do not find it necessary to resort to that method. But there is a good reason why the name of the party should be designated and should be displayed on the ballot paper. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! An opportunity is available to each honourable senator to debate this question if he or she so desires. 
The honourable senator might call himself the representative of the 'Democratic Party'. But provision exists in the Commonwealth Electoral Act to protect recognised political parties according to their designation or party name from those who by some subterfuge might try to present themselves as being of that recognised party. That would be a matter only of making the necessary provision to overcome that situation. Paragraph (4) of our amendment reads:  a candidate who is a Commonwealth Public Servant should not be required to resign at the time of nomination but only if elected. 
We propose that if this Bill reaches the Committee stage - we hope that it will - not tonight but later on- 
Yes. When the Committee stage is reached, we will move paragraphs (2), (3), (5) and (6) as specific operative amendments to relevant sections of the principal Act. I would refrain from presenting paragraph (4) because this is a most difficult question which involves the interpretation of the Commonwealth Electoral Act and the Constitution, and the application of both. We feel that Commonwealth public servants should be given the opportunity which is spelt out in paragraph (4), but the matter is extremely complicated. The Commonwealth Electoral Act and the Constitution must be read together. It would not be possible without a good deal of advice, consultation and careful drafting to spell out that proposal in an amendment of short form. This may not be an appropriate time for such a proposal. All I say on behalf of our Party is that this is a proposition in which we believe and one that we will project, support and execute at the proper time. 
I have not examined the Vietnam figures. All I know is that as I saw the electoral process operating at that time, and as I said in this chamber on my return, I thought that the process was impeccable in its observance of the democratic forms. There was every opportunity for a free vote, for a secret vote, for a dissentient vote and for a personal vote, with proper identification so that there could be no impersonation. There was proper scrutiny and proper accounting of votes and ballot papers, and I could find no fault during an attempted objective assessment when going around polling booths both in Saigon and in one of the new provinces to which we were lifted by helicopter. We went in without accompaniment to polling booths which were blacked out with curtains and things of that nature and I could see no fault in the system. For the informal vote a discard tin was provided, for those who did not want to use any of the slates. If a person did not want to vote he put his paper in the tin, or he could mutilate his paper before he put it in the manila envelope. That would be an informal vote. It was quasi-opaque manila envelope; one could not see what was on it but one could see there was something in if by holding it to the light. That would have been an informal vote and there was opportuntiy to register it. 
Paragraph 5 prescribes that voting hours should be changed from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. You.  Mr Acting President,  being a resident of northern Queensland will know that in Queensland the 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. voting hour is an imposition on the comfort, convenience and availability of the people of Queensland. 
I suppose a provision could be made for them to vote on the previous day, or something like that. 
Yes, to vote by post. Many techniques are available for overcoming particular difficulties whether they be of conscience or physical or of absenteeism. 
We have farmers in Queensland and there are farmers in New South Wales and they all have greater distances to travel than do farmers in Victoria. But we have found the  8  a.m. to  6  p.m. provision is all right and convenient and that anybody who wants to vote is reasonably able to vote, with the benefit of modern transportation. I know what it is like to work at a booth from  8  a.m. to  8  p.m.; at  6  p.m. the sun has gone down and for the last  2  hours one is working in the dark - literally in the dark and carrying a hurricane lantern or an electric torch. Tt depends on the time of year at which the poll is conducted. We think consideration could well be given to this and we have moved accordingly. 
Our Party finds a particular disability in the level of deposit required. As honourable senators know, we attempt to present candidates in all seats and very seldom does a candidate stand much chance of winning in a particular electorate. There is a very heavy demand on our funds and candidates' funds to provide the necessary deposit and if our candidate's vote is below the minimum requirement, the deposit is not refunded. If the electoral process is designed to provide the maximum electoral opportunity to people then I think that this must be a provision made in reality and not merely in theory. I think that our experience alone should demonstrate that there is a very good case for lowering the deposit fee to a level which would deter those who have no serious intent and no serious interest in participating in elections and which would deter those who would nominate from improper motives and who, if the deposit is too low, will take advantage of the situation. 
That is a good practical suggestion. The deposit paid could well be a taxation rebate proposition. 
After all, money expended by a sitting member of Parliament is deductible from the point of view of taxation. However, this is not the case for an incoming candidate who  is  not already a sitting member. We have therefore moved this blanket amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill in the form in which it is presented. We would propose in the committee stage of the Bill to move paragraphs  (2), (3),  (5) and  (6)  as specific amendments to the relevant sections of the principal Act. This amendment will in duc course be circulated so that honourable senators can see exactly what we have in mind. We do appeal to honourable senators on the motion for the second reading to acknowledge the wisdom, prudence and the equity of giving consideration to an alternative electoral system for the House of Representatives so that in the truest and most accurate sense possible that chamber can reflect the Australian community and can be a parliamentary house of the people in fact as well as in theory. Therefore I do appeal to honourable senators to support the amendment we move to the motion for the second reading of the Bill propounded by  Senator Murphy.  We support the motion and we present this addendum which we trust will receive the support of honourable senators. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Does any honourable senator second the amendment? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Before I call the next  speaker  I draw attention to standing order  195  which provides that second reading amendments shall be strictly related to the Bill. I have a doubt whether paragraphs  (2)  to  (6)  of the amendment are strictly relevant to the Bill. I invite argument on this point of order. 
The amendment propounded by the Democratic Labor Party is in 2 parts. There is placitum (1) with a prelude and then there are placitums (2) to (6). This is a Bill to amend the Commonwealth Electoral Act to provide for enrolment and voting at the age of 18 years. The intent of the Bill is to give political representation to a group of people in the community who, because of age disability, under the present law do not enjoy it. The purpose of the first placitum of our amendment is to give parliamentary representation to a group of people in the community who, because of the present electoral law, cannot achieve it. In other words, the first placitum of our amendment is completely consonant with the concept and purpose of the Bill, although it goes to another area. 
This is what we have done. We are grateful to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  for introducing this Bill. I do not see why, if he has faith in the system, he should object to this appendage. It does not affect the fate of his Bill. It is only an expression of opinion by the Senate. If he agrees with it, I see no reason why he should not support it. 
 I am saying that the purpose, intent and content of the first placitum of our amendment are completely consonant with the purpose or concept of the Bill, which is to extend the franchise to a group of people so that they can have parliamentary representation which they cannot achieve under the present electoral law. That is the purpose of the Bill and it is precisely the purpose of our amendment. I submit therefore that it is completely consonant with the Bill and its title. 1 come to the second part of our amendment. Here I will agree that there may well be matters that are not relevant to the Bill. T think 1 would be straining if I attempted to say otherwise. But I draw the attention of honourable senators to standing order 332 which reads: 
An Instruction can be given to a Committee of the Whole on a Bill to amend an existing Act, to consider amendments which are not relevant to the subject-matt? r of the Bill, but are relevant to the subject-matter of me Act it is proposed to amend, provided that such motion shall be carried by at least 23 affirmative votes. 

 Mr President, if you should hold that placitums (2) to (6) are not relevant to the Bill, we will not proceed with those as part of an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill, but at the appropriate time after that motion is carried we shall call in aid standing order 332 and ask the Senate to give the necessary instruction to the Committee of the Whole to consider these amendments, which you will then have held are not relevant and therefore cannot be presented in the normal fashion and as part of an amendment to the motion for the second reading. 
 We are entitled to do this. 1 do not see why  Senator Murphy  should be so solicitous of the people in one segment of the community in order to make sure that they achieve parliamentary representation, and not welcome what we are doing; that is, welcome the removal of the deprivation of half a million people of parliamentary representation. I cannot understand that. 
We can do lots of things. But I would have thought that, if  Senator Murphy  agreed that half a million electors and probably more than one million people in Australia are entitled to political representation of their own choice, he would have welcomed the use of the opportunity he has presented to us to put this addendum on to his proposition, with which our proposition totally coincides. In those circumstances I am disappointed at the response of the Leader of the Opposition and of the Opposition itself. I would have thought that, in a broad acceptance of the necessity to achieve adequate political representation for al! significant segments of the community, he would have welcomed the proposition on which we are giving the Senate the chance to vote tonight. 
Subject to your ruling,  Mr President,  which is now the matter for discussion, I submit that the first placitum of our amendment is relevant to the concept and content of the Bill as it is projected, or to what it purports and aims to do; and, although the rest of our amendment - pia.citums (2) and (6) - is not relevant in that sense, it will be presented to the Senate, in pursuance of standing order 332, at the appropriate time in the form of an invitation to the Senate to give an instruction to the Committee of the Whole that, although it is not relevant to the Bill, because it is relevant to the Principal Act it may be considered in Committee of the Whole. In those circumstances,  Mr President,  I submit that, in your judgment, you should allow the first placitum of our amendment to go to a vote, as being relevant to the Bill, and we will then discard the rest of the amendment for the purposes of the motion for the second reading of the Bill and present it in Committee in the terms I have suggested. 
1 give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That contingent upon the Commonwealth Electoral Bil) 1972 being read a second time it be an instruction to the Committee of the Whole on the Bill to consider the amendments of the following sections of  the  principal Act: Sections 73, 76, 106 and 111. 
1 direct a question to the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts. Following the resolution of the Senate to refer to that Committee the matter of the education of children from isolated areas, the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Davidson,  in answer to a question I asked of him, indicated that the Committee would give a priority consideration to this matter. 1 have discussed this matter with  Senator Davidson  and indicated to him that I proposed to ask him this morning, so that he could have an opportunity to inform the Senate about it, what steps have already been taken by the Committee to advance this investigation. I understand that the Committee has already been very active. 1 direct such question to the  Chairman  of the Committee. 
Because of remarks that have been made I think it important that I place on record for the Senate the very big advance that is implicit in the writing into the schedule of the agreement on this matter of the provision for environmental concern. This is a tremendous step forward. Admittedly, initially we tried to do more, but we must realise that the States have the primary  responsibility of afforestation and that the Commonwealth is giving aid through the provision of finance. Therefore, any viable arrangement must be one which is in accord with the wishes of the State and the desires of the Commonwealth. If one attempted to impose its authority on the other the whole exercise would be accompanied by sheer disaster and would be nullified. Therefore, when this matter was considered further following the resolution and the acceptance of our amendment in this chamber, and the States had been consulted on it and had expressed their views, as they were entitled to do, it was only proper that the Parliament should consider those views. This has been done. 
The amendment which now emerges, which is substantially the amendment which was initially proposed in this chamber by the Democratic Labor Party, has now the acceptance of the States. The States have agreed to the formal incorporation in a document of agreement of a provision that environmental factors should be considered when moneys provided by the Commonwealth are made available to the States for expenditure on afforestation projects. The States therefore have agreed to a forma) acknowledgment of their responsibilities in this field at the instance of the Commonwealth and of this Senate. That is a tremendous step forward and we should be gratified at the co-operation of the States, as we should be gratified at the initiative shown by this chamber of this Parliament and - if I may be pardoned for a slight element of vanity - at the initiative shown by the Democratic Labor Party in initially propounding the principle which is now incorporated in mutually acceptable terms in the schedule to the agreement which is before the Senate. 
I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  In view of the impending dissolution of the House of Representatives and the conclusion of the twentyseventh Parliament, is it proposed that the Senate notice paper will be cleared as from the date of the dissolution of the House of Representatives? Will all committees of the Senate - select, standing and other committees - be regarded as functus officio as from that date? If so, what is the authority - constitutional, historical or traditional - for such procedures? In view of the fact that the Senate by its nature and the form of its composition under the Constitution has continuum over and above the term of the House of Representatives, and that the establishment and extension of the committee system of the Senate have brought under the scrutiny of the Senate matters of an important nature and that the investigation of these matters should proceed with a minimum of delay and that in some cases the Senate has required reports by a certain date, will you inform the Senate before the announced date of the dissolution of the House of Representatives whether it is proposed that the business of the Senate, not being business of a legislative character which requires the complementary existence of the House of Representatives, should be permitted to continue? In the event that there are inescapable reasons why the Senate should not continue to operate even in a nonlegislative role pending the calling of the newly elected House of Representatives, will you ascertain whether it is the will of the Senate that Parliament should be called as soon as practicable after the return of the writs for election to the House of Representatives so that the Senate committees can proceed with their processes of investigation and report? 
The Bill now before the Committee has been returned to this chamber as a result of an amendment moved by me on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party being approved by the Senate and the Bill in the amended form then being returned to the House of Representatives. Of course, the whole object of the exercise was to indicate the concern of the Federal Government and of the national Parliament on the question of conservation and the preservation of our natural environment. This was to be done by an amendment to this Bill, which provided that if the Commonwealth were to provide moneys, it should be a condition precedent to the availability of those moneys that the environmental factors should be considered. The amendment propounded by the Democratic Labor Party when the Bill was originally before this chamber purported to amend the Schedule by deleting clause 9 and inserting the following clauses: 
The State shall ensure that planting during each year is carried out efficiently and in conformity with sound forestry, environmental and financial practices.  9a.  - The State shall ensure that natural forests shall not be cleared for planting softwoods unless the particular proposed clearing has beforehand been the subject of an environmental impact study made by an independent expert on behalf of the 
Australian Forestry Council and that the Council after considering the report of the said study has approved the particular clearing'. 
That matter was considered by the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  and by the Government, and subsequently by the House of Representatives. Certain important factors were presented for consideration as to whether the amendment in that form was acceptable. Discussions took place between  Senator Cotton  and myself - he representing  Sir Reginald  Swartz - in which it was pointed out, I think in quite compelling and convincing terms, that if we were to insert the requirement as was proposed and was executed in the amendment requiring an environmental study by an independent expert before a reafforestation programme should proceed in terms of the pending agreement, it would involve a number of things. It would involve the interruption of the existing planting programmes, because they are planned 2 years ahead, and it would involve the displacement of labour. Those were very serious consequences which inevitably would have emerged, on the advice which the Minister was good enough to pass on to me, if the original amendment had been persisted with. In addition, the States expressed perhaps legitimate concern that this was a trespass not only on their sovereignty but also on their real solicitude and concern for the protection of the environment and consideration of the environment in any reafforestation programme. I accept, on behalf of my Party, those propositions as having a very high measure of validity. 

 Senator Mulvihill expressed concern that the States, while they may manifest a solicitude, may have a different interpretation of how that solicitude should be exercised. He pointed to what he regards as specific failures by one of the States to have that regard for the environment and the preservation of natural forest which he would always try to engender. I think we must accept the fact that the States are as conscious of the protection of the environment as is this Parliament; and that they already have taken very many steps in their own field on questions relating to water pollution, and conservation of the environment in many areas and in many forms. I think we can accept that this will be done. However, I think it was not inappropriate that, following the presentation of this Bill and the consideration of it, the Senate should express its insistence and its concern to put on record that it should be a condition precedent to the availability of this money, in terms of the agreement, that the environmental factor, as a matter of agreement and of law, should be considered by State governments which plan to proceed with forestry plantings with money made available under this legislation. Therefore 1 think the proposition is valid on both sides. I can accept the position of the States and their protestations. At the same time I think we are quite right in re-presenting our proposition. 
The amendment which has now come forward from the House of Representatives is in a form which substantially embodies the proposed replacement of clause 9 of the Schedule as carried in this place. It merely puts it in other words, namely:  arid shall ensure that environmental factors relating to the planting have been considered. 
That will impose on the States the obligation, if this money is to be made available and utilised, that in terms of the agreement they shall be able to assure the Commonwealth that in their forward planning they have considered the environmental factor. Possibly there is no more we could do, accepting the goodwill of the States, which I do without any reservation whatsoever. 1 think an important point has been made in the progress of the debate on this Bill through the 2 Houses of the Parliament. The Commonwealth Government, perhaps for the first time, has taken a strong legislative stand in relation to insistence on respect for and observance of the protection of the environment. In legislation this is possibly one of the strongest steps that have been taken. I think it is to the credit of this chamber that this step was taken at its instance. As I pointed out when speaking originally to this Bill, we members of the Democratic Labor Party have been in the very forefront of the programme for environmental concern. We included it - perhaps we were the first and only party to do so - in a national policy speech some years ago. It is a matter which remains of considerable concern to our Party. It is one in which some of our members are intensely and personally interested because they serve on various national and State committees dealing with environmental protection. 
For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party supports the amendment which has emerged from the House of Representatives and which substantially embodies one part of the amendment originally propounded in this place by our Party. It underlines the principle which we wanted to project and embodies it in the new agreement. I have little doubt that it will be observed in completely good faith by the States when they utilise this money for the purposes for which it is provided. In those circumstances we support the amendment presented by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  I take this opportunity of thanking him personally for his concern about this matter, for the assistance he has given in consultation, and particularly for the informed and interesting presentation he made to this chamber on this matter during the progress of the second reading and Committee debates. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
1 rise merely to indicate that the Australian 
Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill. It is one of those types of Bills that come forward following agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, and is a further legislatvie acknowledgment of the continuing unsatisfactory financial relationship between the Commonwealth and the States - something that must ultimately be resolved in a quasi-permanent form otherwise these periodic adjustments will have to be made, very often accompanied by differences between the Commonwealth and the States and differences between the States themselves. 
So far as the State of Queensland is concerned, of course, there has been a recent major development in that Queensland has now become a claimant State under the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I know it was suggested that if this happened Queensland's free public hospital system would be in jeopardy and might even be destroyed. Of course, that has not happened and it will not happen. As far as I can see. the only threat to Queensland's public hospital system might well be the health policy which is propounded by the Australian Labor Party. That is the real threat, and the threat that was to manifest itself in Queensland's becoming a claimant State has not developed as was predicted by the apostles of doom. 
The constitutional convention which is contemplated at the instance of the States, in which the Commonwealth will participate and about which a steering committee has met already to plan the mode of approach for a review of the Constitution, undoubtedly will take into its ambit of consideration this vexed question of Commonwealth and State financial relations, and it is certainly time that that was done. I think that honourable senators who have had an opportunity to attend Premiers Conferences or have seen these periodic Bills coming through the Senate, in some way trying to retrieve the difficult and contradictory financial conditions which have developed will welcome some permanent and final solution of this very difficult question. We can only hope that that will be one of the early matters considered by the constitutional convention because we must always remember that under the present concept of the Constitution the States are substantially the developing and construction authorities, that the Commonwealth has complete control over the major resources of revenue, and that the reconciliation of those 2 things can be accompanied only by the development and the projection of a proper financial formula. As I say, we hope that this will come about. 
I do not think it is necessary, if one speaks specifically and relevantly to the Bill, to discuss it in any detail. It has 3 provisions - two pertaining particularly to Victoria and New South Wales and one to Western Australia. There is no particular provision applying to the State of Queensland, but we of the Democratic Labor Party welcome these 3 provisions - retrieving positions as they should equitably be retrieved in the 2 States to which I first referred and in the third State. Western Australia, to which I also have made some reference. This gives the States an opportunity to balance budgets over which they had virtually lost control because of circumstances beyond their disposition. After all. the wage rises comma from the federal arbitration court under federal awards and flowing through were matters in which the States could be only the inheritor1; and in no sense the architects. They were not the disposers under a testament: they were the beneficiaries of the economic difficulties that followed from these determinations. They placed their budgetary positions in very considerable difficulty. They put them, to use a vulgarism, out of plumb and the Commonwealth had to go to their support and retrieve the position. 
That, in principle, is not a good position, lt is a contradiction of the old principle relating to representation and taxation: that those who have the responsibility and entitlement to spend money should have the responsibility of raising it. That is contradicted in the new situation because, as I say. the revenue power virtually is concentrated in the Commonwealth and the expenditure opportunities, apart from defence and things of that nature, virtually are confined to the States. That is a position which should not bc allowed to continue. A much more realistic approach must be discovered and developed. We hope that in time we will see the elimination of this type of Bill and that with the emergence of a more permanent and more viable financial relationship on a proper basis between the Commonwealth and the States, we will see automatic adjustments without the necessity for legislative intervention from time to time which only follows traumas, discordances and confrontations between the Commonwealth and the States. Fortunately those were few in number at the Premiers Conference on this occasion and they lacked the intensity which has become traditional and even customary in more recent years at meetings of the Australian Loan Council and the Premiers Conference. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill with the fond hope that it may not be the first or one of a succession of Bills that we will see in future years. We hope that we may be coming to the end of this type of procedure and that the rationalisation and normalisation of CommonwealthState financial relations, access to revenue and opportunities for expenditure - in particular, in the sphere of local government which finds itself in continuing difficulties - will eliminate all these problems in the future. Subject to those qualifications, the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I move the following amendment to the motion before the chamber: 
At the end of motion add -  but the Senate expresses the view that the Government should consider as soon as possible the complete elimination of Federal estate duty'. 
Copies of the amendment have been circulated to honourable senators, but unfortunately no other member of my Party is present at the moment to second the amendment. 
I have been a member of this chamber for some years and, to my recollection, the legislation governing the imposition of Federal estate duty has been amended 3 times. The Bill presently before the Senate is at least the third amending measure; there may have been others. The first amendment I recall was the one referred to by  Senator Lawrie  when relief was afforded from the duplicated imposition of estate duty in the case of quick successions; there was some alleviation of that position. A year or so ago there was an alleviation of the imposition of Federal estate duty by lifting the level of exemption and by other types of concessions. The Bill now before the chamber is of the same character. 1 do not propose tonight to go into tha whole matter of the justification for the elimination of Federal estate duty, but I do say that the Senate is indebted to  Senator Lawrie,  who has just resumed his seat and who is the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations to which this matter has been referred in these terms: 
The effects of Estate and life duties on the public revenues and the economic circumstances of individuals and communities, and the social consequences of such duties. 
That Committee has not yet presented its report. However,  Senator Lawrie  as a result of information which has come to him in public hearings of the Committee has been able to give the Senate the benefit of certain inferences that can be drawn as to the effects of the incidence of this duty, the effects of individual cases of hardship which are involved, the general oppression implicit in the imposition of this duty, the economic consequences of it generally and the effect it has on rural industries and on rural settlement, on individual 'lives, on domestic circumstances and on the breakup of justifiably accumulated family estates. The Senate, I think, could well rest upon the detailed information which  Senator Lawrie  has been able to furnish to it from the evidence which has been presented to his Committee. 
When a similar Bill to the one now before the Senate was introduced in this chamber about 2 years ago - again when the level of exemption was lifted - I moved an amendment on behalf of my Party.  A.  similar amendment was moved in relation to, I think, the Budget when, among other propositions, this amendment was advanced on the motion for the second reading of the Appropriation Bill. On the first occasion, to the motion for the third reading of the Bill 1 moved an amendment which was in identical terms to that which has now been moved and circulated to honourable senators. 
Yes. On that occasion I was supported by a number of honourable senators. Our amendment was supported by a number of members of the Liberal Party; by all members of the Country Party except a Country Party Minister, but 1 must say that since he was a member of the Cabinet he perhaps had little alternative but to support his Government's legislation; by one Independent senator, if 1 remember correctly: and by all members of my own Party of course. But it was totally opposed by all members of the official Opposition, and was defeated. 
 Senator Milliner  says that it was a pious resolution. It was to be an expression of opinion by this chamber, and I do not regard a formal expression of opinion by this chamber as being merely a pious resolution. It must be interpreted as the opinion of one chamber of the legislature formally presented to the government as expessing the view of the representatives of the 6 States on a matter of very great importance. I must accept the resistance of the Australian Labor Party to our proposal for the total elimination of estate duly as an expression of opinion by that Party, and as an expression of the policy of that Party. I presume that that policy remains the same today and I would therefore be gratified if in the course of this debate Opposition senators would indicate whether they still resist the elimination of Federal estate duty or whether that policy has been changed or the attitule of their Party has been altered and they will now support our amendment as, I am sure, many honourable sentors on the Government side - I hope, in increasing numbers - will do. 
The fact that on 2 occasions in the last 2 or 3 years it has been necessary to represent this principal Act and to amend it by granting further exemptions is an indication of 2 things. Firstly, it is an indication that due to the change in the economic climate of this country an air of unreality is now being injected into the valuation of estates, attracting then the imposition in harsh terms of Federal estate duty, and this is something that has to be constantly rectified. That has been done before and is being done again. That in itself indicates a totally unsatisfactory situation and one which surely must ultimately be eliminated by the abandonment of the tax. The second thing that is indicated is, of course, the growing concern that obviously is being expessed in the necessity, firstly, to relieve a matter such as the double incidence and then to ameliorate the level of incidence by lifting the. level of exemption. That must indicate a growing concern and a growing acknowledgment and appreciation that this lax by its nature is an unsatisfactory and unjustifiable tax and one which, if it cannot be eliminated immediately, must be eliminated gradually until we reach the process of its final elimination. 
Those are the conclusions I draw from the presentation and re-presentation of the principal Act with amendments on 3 occasions to my knowledge, and probably more, as I may have discovered, if I had researched it in that depth. It is important that the Parliament should express its view on this matter, and it is important that the Senate should express its firm view in relation to this tax insofar as it is imposed under Federal law. That is why I cannot for a moment accept that a formal resolution of this chamber is merely a resolution which is passed here and dies here. A resolution of this chamber surely must come into the cognisance of the Government and must have at least some persuasive effect on the Government in regard to its acceptance when the opportunity presents itself. On the last occasion on which a resolution was moved in these terms  Senator Prowse  moved an alternative resolution to the effect that the Government should take this matter into budgetary consideration, the Budget of that year then being pending. That resolution was supported by my Party, by all members of the Country Party with the exception of a Country Party Minister and by a number of members of the Liberal Party, but again was opposed by the Australian Labor Party. Of course, circumstances change insofar as that Budget has passed and the current Budget has been formulated; therefore to refer to a budgetary situation now in this resolution would be unreal. What the Democratic Labor Party does, therefore, is seeks a firm expression of parliamentary opinion on this chamber to the effect that the chamber, having considered the matter, is averse to the continued imposition of the tax and commends to the Government early consideration of its total abolition. 
The fact that the Senate by resolution - if 1 remember correctly, by unanimous resolution - referred the matter to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, of which  Senator Lawrie  is the  Chairman,  surely means that the Senate must have expressed its concern. We are merely asking that in a formal way that concern be clearly and unequivocably expressed tonight. I hope that the Senate therefore will support our amendment. It has been suggested that there may be other propositions for further partial alleviation of the present level of imposition by one method or another or by the application of one formula or another. The Democratic Labor Party cannot accept such specific proposition insofar as they would represent a precise amendment to a Bill which is part of the budgetary situation, and that would amount to rejection of the Budget. We do not think that would be appropriate. Therefore we think the best that can be done at this stage - and we do it as firmly, as clearly, as unequivocally and as persuasively as we can - is to present this amendment and trust that it will receive the unanimous support of honourable senators. lt is not necessary for this chamber tonight to canvass in detail all the injustices and all individual hardships of estate duty or to canvass the merits of the case for the abolition of Federal estate duty. We do know that, today, the Commonwealth has complete control over the major sources of revenue in this country. Those sources are the imposition of direct, taxation, of duties of customs and excise, and of sales tax. The States are left with ancillary methods of raising finance. One of those methods to which the States resort is the imposition of estate duty, probate duty or succession duty. 
We know that whatever our views may be on the principle of estate duty, constitutionally the most that we can do in this place is to direct our minds to the elimination of that duty insofar as it is imposed under Federal constitutional power. Whatever we might think of the continued imposition of that duty by the States, that is a matter for them. All we can do is to go as far as we are entitled to do constitutionally. This amendment purports to do that. 
 I was just going to canvass that point. 
 I think that the point made by the Minister is very appropriately and most relevantly raised. He is' asserting that, insofar as the Commonwealth may vacate the field of this duty, this action may be an incentive to the States, with a wider field of revenue then available, to impose this duty in their own sphere at an increasingly high level. We think that that would be a most unacceptable alternative because that is not the purport of our amendment. It is not the intention which is implicit in our approach. We think that the duty in principle and by its very nature is indefensible whether it is imposed by the Commonwealth or by the States. Therefore, in our approach to it we would say that we wish to eliminate it as far as we can in the Federal sphere under constitutional powers. We would ask the States similarly to adopt this principle. We wouk request that insofar as their revenue necessarily will be affected, alternative sources of revenue might be discovered by them or for them; otherwise the whole of the exercise would be nugatory and of little value and effect. 
What we challenge here - it was very well put by  Senator Lawrie  - is the principle implicit in this opposition, that is, the inequities which inescapably accompany it and the injustices which inescapably are imposed by it. These are the things that we want to eliminate. I mention the disturbance of families that have devoted themselves for years to the building up of only one asset which basically is land. Everything has been sacrificed to the retention of the homestead and some producing land surrounding the homestead. That becomes virtually the sole asset of the family and the sole asset which is passed on in succession. The moment the succession arises, not sufficient money is available to meet the estate duties which are imposed under valuation of the property which may be unreal in terms of its productive capacity. The estate must be sold; the assets have to be distributed; a whole domestic family unit is disturbed. The succession is no longer inviolate but is destroyed for all time. We think not only that this is an injustice but also that it is socially undesirable. It is towards the elimination of this situation and for this purpose that we have moved this amendment. 
The Senate discussed this matter as recently as 18 months or 2 years ago. We spoke on it then and, before that, on many occasions we have presented our case. We think that it is a case which is now finding increasingly common acceptance. We think that it does find acceptance in the Government, which has the responsibility for discovering the revenue which must be discovered in order to finance the expenditure of government. We do feel that the Government giving these constitutional alleviations is now sensitive to the undesirability of the retention of this tax. A firm expression by this House of the Parliament may well persuade the Government that a final effort should be made to discover an alternative source of revenue and to eliminate this highly undesirable means of raising it by way of Federal estate succession duty. 
For those reasons, we commend the amendment to all honourable senators. I feel that on this occasion we shall obtain increased voting support from the Government benches beyond those members who have supported us on previous occasions and who supported the amendment on the occasion when you,  Mr Deputy President,  moved an amendment as an alternative to the one that we had proposed. Your amendment was virtually in the same terms, with some minor qualifications. But particularly do I hope on this occasion that members of the Opposition will support our programme for the elimination of estate duty. We do hope that we will obtain their support on this occasion because, if we do, it will be the first occasion on which a House of this Parliament has come out clearly and without equivocation in appealing to the Government on behalf of the people involved - and so unjustly involved - to eliminate this imposition on their life of thrift, sacrifice and saving. 
Therefore, with considerable enthusiasm and, I trust, with equal hope, we 'commend this amendment to all honourable senators. We trust that its fate on this occasion will be different from that which it met on previous occasions. Allowing perhaps that amendments of this kind may- not be able to be accepted in the disposition of members of the Cabinet, although I could not see why, at least those who may not in some way be bound by any Cabinet loyalty will find it possible to support the amendment and to let if not a unanimous at least a substantial vote flow from this chamber, stating the principle of elimination by supporting the terms of the amendment. For those reasons, I commend the amendment to all honourable senators. I do hope that the amendment will meet the fate and the outcome that I contemplate arid for which I so fondly and eagerly hope. 
Honourable senators will know that the Australian Democratic Labor Party has been conducting a long campaign in relation to the elimination of federal estate duty so far as it is available to this Parliament to do so under the Constitution. We have moved to do so on a number of occasions. Unfortunately, until recently we were not successful in having a resolution from the Senate supporting our proposition, although we had moved a motion at least twice before. However, only last week a specific motion before the Senate was adopted. It was supported by the Government, independent senators and members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party but was opposed by the Opposition. There is now a standing resolution of the Senate that the Federal Government should take into consideration the total elimination of federal estate duty. As  Senator Devitt  says, there is also a reference of the matter to the appropriate Senate Standing Committee on the basis of determining, I presume, if the legislation were to persist, what anomalies might exist and how they might be eliminated. But it is our attitude that the resolution of the Senate indicating its attitude to this matter surely must have some persuasive effect on the Government. We could reasonably expect that in the face of that resolution the Government would attempt to introduce legislation at the earliest opportunity to eliminate estate duty altogether so far as it is federally imposed. 
I agree wilh  Senator Withers  that the amendments which have been propounded by  Senator Negus,  for the removal of anomalies and the amelioration of the impositions under the present statute, are aimed in the same direction. But to attempt at this stage with these complex amendments coming forward in an area which is. as  Senator Withers  said, of tremendous legal complexity, to assess them and fit them into the principal Act and to adopt them without creating further and even worse anomalies would be an impossible operation for the Senate. That might be an essay which we would still undertake if it were not for the resolution now standing before us that the Senate has set its face against the continuation of this imposition at any time, in any way and at any level. For that reason, the attitude of the DLP is that these amendments should not be supported, that we should by the attitude of the Senate indicate that we think the Government should retire from this field altogether, the Senate has so resolved, and the Government should at the earliest opportunity propound that as a matter of positive political and governmental policy. Then the amendments which  Senator Negus  is attempting to persuade upon the Senate in good faith this afternoon would not be necessary because the duty would have been abandoned completely. 
In those circumstances we do not feel that we can support these amendments. But we again take this opportunity to persist in our campaign and commend to the Government as firmly as possible the resolution of the Senate made the other day that the Government should retire from this field of duty. We hope that the Government will give early attention to the resolution of the Senate. I say to  Senator Negus  that we find ourselves unable to support these specific propositions on the principle that the greater includes the less and the total elimination of estate duty will make amendments such as these unnecessary and avoid the complications which are inherent in this attempt, brave as it may be, to amend the statute. 
Speaking for the Democratic Labor Party, I feel that we should state our position. It is not a very easy position to state. As I said when speaking earlier in this debate, the attitude of our Party has been that estate duty should be totally eliminated by the Federal Government and federal estate duty should cease to be a taxation imposition. That has been our attitude for a long time. We were probably the first to initiate this proposal - we were in this Parliament - and we have persisted with it time and again. 
Yes, before  Senator Negus. 
I do not know. Many people have borrowed our policies, so possibly he would not be unique if he did that. We have persisted in our policy until the resolution of a few days ago when we were supported by a resolution of the Senate that the Federal Government should investigate the abandonment of federal estate duty.  Senator Negus,  who has been interested particularly in the elimination of this duty, has proposed a number of amendments. I have indicated that the Democratic Labor Party would not be able to support them. He has abandoned or temporarily postponed some of them, but he has continued to present this one which is for the relief of hardship in particular cases, based on principles which have been adopted from the income tax statute. This in principle, is a very good thing. There are cases of hardship which should be relieved and we would be disposed to support the amendment. However, as I say, in the light of our campaign, which is not merely for the alleviation of a position and not merely for the relief of hardship in particular cases, but is that the duty should be totally abandoned, we propose to take no step that in any sense would weaken the position which we have so constantly and persistently adopted. 
Well, that may be so. But, after all, the Senate by resolution has put it to the Government that it should consider this, and we fondly hope that the Government will indicate at an early stage what it proposes to do and perhaps during the course of the presentation of the forthcoming policy speech, we would expect that the Government, if it is cognisant of the resolution of the Senate and the disposition of this chamber of the legislature, would indicate that it will abandon this duty. Then the whole matter would be solved and  Senator Negus  would not have occasion to present any ameliorating resolutions as he has done and is doing in this chamber tonight. It is done in an attempt to relieve a position which has been relieved in part but which we believe should be relieved in total. 
For these reasons, while supporting in principle what  Senator Negus  has proposed, we cannot in the circumstances of our campaign and of what we believe, support this resolution although we do say that it is an attempt to relieve the position. What could well be the fear is that the continued amelioration of the position might persuade a government to reach a position where it would say: 'We have relieved it as far as we can. We have inserted a hardship clause. We have lifted the rate of exemption. We are not prepared to go any further.' The Democratic Labor Party says this: That while the- 
I do not think it could get worse. But when a government is not disposed perhaps or any party in government is not disposed to relieve the position it will certainly seek some sanctuary and the intermediate relief could very well be such a sanctuary. 
We know that this Bill in itself is an amelioration because it does lift the level of exemption; but this Bill is part of the whole pattern of the Budget. It is in terms of the pattern of the Budget that the Government has pursued its economic remedies which are obviously operating with some measure of success in the community. It would be not opportune now to disturb, by opposing the Bill as I have indicated, the economic pattern which has been presented. What I have just said goes for the whole Bill and does not apply to this particular amendment. 
Therefore, while accepting what persuaded  Senator Negus  to present this amendment which would operate in individual cases of hardship, the Democratic Labor Party has taken a firm and unrelenting line. We say that we expect that the whole of this tax will be abandoned at an early date. We look to the Government to do this. If the Government does not indicate that it will take this action we will support, or ourselves present, a private members' Bill in this place to see that Federal estate duty is totally abandoned. We will present such legislation in the new Parliament. If it is a question of the retro spective operation of the relief duty that might be assessed from this point on, that is something that could well be in contemplation. 
I have outlined to the Senate the disposition of my Party. We have made our position clear to the Parliament, and the Senate has made its position clear to the Government, and we trust that the Government, will make its position clear to the people who will vote at the forthcoming election. If the Government does not take this step we will move in the new Parliament on our own initiative and we trust that we will get the support of the Senate for a Bill to remove Federal estate duty completely. It is on that basis that we are unable tonight to support the amendment though it has excellent principles which, of course, would be carried completely into effect if our attitude were finally adopted by the Government. 
As I have said repeatedly, the Democratic Labor Party has moved this type of resolution on at least 3 occasions to my recollection. At least one of them, apart from this one, was a very specific resolution which the Country Party was not able to adopt in the form in which it was presented. It presented virtually the same amendment embodying the same principle of the elimination of estate duty, that was presented by  Senator Prowse.  On that occasion the Australian Labor Party, to a man, opposed that amendment as it opposed ours only a few days ago. We have proposed this type of amendment in the debate on the Budget Papers and one thing and another, but inevitably it has been rejected by the Australian Labor 
Party. If the Australian Labor Party has the disposition that it does not support the elimination of estate duty, let me point out that on the last occasion the matter was debated  Senator Milliner  made a very strong case against estate duty in which he pointed out how wealthy people could be relieved of it. Therefore we can take it that the Australian Labor Party in government would take no steps at all to relieve the imposition of Federal estate duty. I take it that that would be the case. 
I am reminded by  Senator McManus  that  Senator Wilkinson  said that its elimination is opposed to the philosophy of the ALP. I treat that as hearsay. It is significant that- 
Although  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has indicated that he is unable to give the assurance which  Senator Murphy  has sought to obtain by way of an amendment to the motion moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, I think it would be. unfortunate if this amendment had to be formally presented.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has indicated, in response to  Senator Gair's  suggestion, that he will try as far as possible to arrange a discussion of the private members' business that is considered to be of particular significance, even if it means going to the extent of slightly extending the sitting of the Senate, which would pose problems. I am wondering whether  Senator Murphy  might consider withdrawing his amendment  and  waiting to see how the matter develops. Perhaps at a later stage  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson will be able to give an assurance that he will be able to accommodate our wishes. Otherwise we will have to move a further amendment seeking the inclusion of Order of the Day No. 13, which is the Prices Limitation Bill, in  Senator Murphy's  proposition. 
I would prefer it if neither proposition had to be added to the motion. I would prefer it if this matter could be allowed to run along as it is. If we were not getting anywhere we could produce contingency motions which would enable us to get our propositions before the Senate. If  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is able to give the assurance that this is something with which he may be able to go along later, I would prefer it if  Senator Murphy"s  amendment was not to be a part of the formal motion; but if it is to be a part of the formal motion, I would prefer it if Order of the Day No. 13 also was embraced in the formal motion. 
 Are you able to give us an assurance? 
SenatorBYRNE -  I had not adverted particularly to the word 'tonight' in  Senator Murphy's  amendment. 
Yes. I agree with  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson on that. I do not agree with that word. I would ask  Senator Murphy  to omit the word 'tonight' from his amendment and to include reference to order of the day No. 13 under General Business. But I would prefer that such formal amendment was not necessary in either case and that, bearing in mind the assurance which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has been kind enough to  give,  we see how things go and early next week we can do something about it. I would much prefer that that procedure  be  followed. 
 - Whatever might be the intrinsic merits of the amendment - I do not canvass that situation during the course of the debate - I must pass the stricture that the moving of the amendment at this stage is a demonstration of a very indefensible level of irresponsibility. This Bill is complementary to a Bill, which became an Act, passed in 1968 which was in pursuance of the programme initiated by Qantas Airways Ltd for the expansion of its aircraft fleet and for its movement into the field of bigger aircraft - the 747 or jumbo jet. We know that all these programmes must necessarily be long range programmes. We also know that the whole economic structure of the aircraft industry is very finely balanced. We know that there is no aspect of international commercial life in which the competition is more intense. We know that profits or losses are made on very small margins one way or the other. That being the case, any failure by an operating airline company to demonstrate imaginative forward planning forecasts some, threat of economic trouble. Very often it has finished in economic disaster. The inability to conceive what the future may demand in relation to capital equipment - type of aircraft and things of that nature - and the failure, to meet what will be the imagined demand have often resulted in a complete dissolution of operating airline companies. 
Qantas, with great wisdom, has seen the necessity for forward planning, for the expansion of its fleet and for its movement into the field of heavier aircraft, for the. economic reasons which have been so thoroughly and with such skill presented to the Senate by  Senator Guilfoyle.  In 1968 the Senate had before it a Bill to authorise the borrowing by Qantas of large sums for the purchase of 5 jumbo jet aircraft - the 747Bs. That was the occasion for the Opposition to set its face against that programme, against that type of programme and against that concept by Qantas or by any operating Australian airline, if the Opposition had such an intention. Once  a  programme is embarked upon, its completion becomes the very essence of the economics of the operation. To truncate the programme in part or in whole at any stage can create economic disaster. In 1968 there was no attempt by the Opposition to move an amendment of this type or to impede in any way the passage of that Bill. I have before me the Hansard for the year 1968 which deals with the. Loans (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill. The Bill was presented and the second reading speech was delivered. The Bill was the subject of minor debate. It was not amended in Committee. It was passed without amendment. 
Years later, when Qantas seeks to effect the complement to its whole capital programme of expansion, an amendment is moved. I feel that it would be totally irresponsible of the Senate to accept the amendment, as I feel that it is irresponsible of the Opposition to move this type of amendment at this stage. We are very proud of Qantas. That fact is common to all parties. I do not think anybody consciously wishes to hurt the operation of the airline. To think that the airline can operate internationally, in the severe climate of international competition and with strictures of the character contained in the amendment imposed on it, obviously is expecting altogether too much. Ultimately the airline would be faced with total economic disaster. Because there is so much business before the Senate, because the Bill is complementary to a Bill that was passed 4 years ago - this Bill is merely the partial completion of a programme - and because I think that the purchase of the original aircraft was warranted, I see no reason for impeding the purchase of the additional aircraft. 
The negotiations for the supply of money for this purpose are very complex operations. They require the co-operation of the manufacturing company. I have little doubt that the Boeing company would have a severe production budget - one with which it would have to comply. It would have to plan its operations some years ahead. For an impediment such as that contained in the amendment to interfere with its production budget would be not only very disconcerting to the company but might in future greatly prejudice Australia when it came again to one of the major aircraft manufacturing corporations seeking an aircraft. In those circumstances, if I were operating such a company, I would require an assurance - almost a cheque on the table - that there would be no impediment. When the aircraft was ordered there would have to be payment for it. No company could afford to operate in any other way, with the economics of the aircraft production industry much less the economics of the aircraft operation industry being what they are. We know that aircraft production companies get into very great trouble and often have to be supported by governments. That is common with American aircraft production corporations. We know that they could not possibly carry on in the circumstances to which I have referred. Australia would inevitably be put at the end of the customer queue if this type of approach were to be made for the purchase of aircraft from this or any other company. 
-That may be so. We cannot alford to impugn our good faith or to disconcert our suppliers. The actual production of the money has been a complex operation which has involved the economics of the producing and selling company and has involved the intervention of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. That institution would have a budget also. Undoubtedly it would have planned in its budget that this money would be made available to Australia now for this purpose. If having said thai we want the money we now say that due to the intervention of Parliament at this stage we do not want it, our rating with that institution would be greatly imperilled in future. For those reasons 1 can see no reason why the amendment should be supported. Whatever may be the intrinsic principles involved in the propositions which are put forward - I do not canvass them but I have very grave doubts as to the merit of many aspects of the elements comprised in the amendment - I think that to present it at this stage in the progress of an agreement of such complexity and of such magnitude and in relation to which parties on all sides are committed for many years back and ahead, does smack of irresponsibility. I hope that the Australian Labor Party might reconsider ils position and withdraw the amendment because inevitably it will not be accepted by the Senate. It could not be accepted by the Senate because, with a proper sense of responsibility, we would have to preserve the commercial integrity of Qantas. We have an obligation to preserve our good faith with the suppliers of the aircraft and our status with the international financial institutions which are supporting the loan. For those reasons, the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill and strongly opposes the amendment put forward by the Opposition. 
I express my regret at the temporary absence of  Senator Cant,  which absence, we hope, will be of short duration, and to express my personal gratification, as the one who moved the motion with which the Senate concurred for the establishment of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, at the speed with which a report of such moment, of such consequence and so definitive in many of its conclusions is presented. I agree that to attempt to discuss the report at this stage would be undesirable, but I have very strong doubts about whether appropriate debate on this matter, in the light of the White Paper presented recently, could be accomplished in the balance of the present parliamentary session. I think the report is too important and too far reaching for the Senate to contemplate that the debate could be accomplished with any effectiveness, however desirable it might be, in that time. I offer my thanks to the executive officers who have assisted the Committee for the work that they have done in creating the infrastructure, in the presentation of the report and for their contribution in the accumulation of evidence and the establishment of procedures for the functioning of the Committee. I hope that a full debate will take place at the most appropriate time, but I cannot agree that the report could be considered in the very short balance of the present parliamentary session. 
I have asked a question of you,  Mr President,  about the continuation of the functions of the Senate despite the dissolution of the House of Representatives. I think you said that you would make a statement on that before the Senate rises. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the Crimes (Hijacking of Aircraft) Bill. It is really a complementary Bill, one of a trilogy of Bills dealing with offences committed in relation to aircraft. This Bill carries into operation a convention which has been concluded by Australia - the Hague Convention - as the immediately preceding Bill presented to this chamber carried into operation the convention described as the Tokyo Convention. Earlier the Senate dealt with legislation of a similar nature, the Crimes (Aircraft) Bill, which dealt in more simple terms with offences in relation to aircraft. The unfortunate development of this type of legislation highlights the fact that the technique of attacks on aircraft and the community by and through the use of aircraft is becoming more prevalent and sophisticated in its operation. New techniques are devised day by day. Ingenuity is being exercised sometimes to effect political purposes, and sometimes for personal or domestic purposes. 
It is necessary that the world resort to sophisticated techniques in order to counter that type of operation. Therefore the passage of 3 Bills over a period of years, stemming in each case from an international convention, highlights the fact that the development of such legislation has been necessary. The Bill now before the Senate deals more specifically with the hijacking of aircraft. Others deal with offences committed in relation to aircraft or in relation to people on aircraft. This measure covers the modern crime of the hijacking of aircraft. As I shall indicate, and as the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  said in his second reading speech, the Bill goes beyond the immediate offence and the techniques necessary to try to prevent it. It goes to the apprehension of offenders, having them dealt with and if necessary extradited to the countries of which they are nationalists for the necessary criminal or punitive proceedings. Each of the Bills which we are debating concurrently deals more specifically with the new crime of hijacking of aircraft. Clause 8 of the Crimes (Hijacking of Aircraft) Bill provides: 
A person who commits hijacking is guilty of an offence against this section if the circumstances referred to in a paragraph of the next succeeding sub-section are applicable, whether or not another of those paragraphs is applicable. 
The circumstances in which the last preceding sub-section applies are - 
Where the hijacking is committed on board an aircraft that is in flight, within the meaning of the Convention, and the Convention requires Australia to make it punishable; 
It would be impossible for any legislation of this character to be effective unless it were finally determined on an international basis. It is an international crime. The AttorneyGeneral pointed out in his second reading speech, quite relevantly, that in a sense this is the creation of a new offence, what we will call an international offence. It is a crime against international law. It is a crime against all peoples and against the comity of nations. That it should now emerge as an international crime is quite appropriate and with the recognition of that in a convention its translation into municipal law is equally relevant, desirable and valuable to the modern community. 
However, the Bill goes beyond that stage. Opportunity is taken, as the AttorneyGeneral said, by recitation in clause 8 of the Bill to translate into the local scene certain offences which up to this time have been committed or committable but have not been expressly provided for in the statutes, as I understand it. These are not covered by conventions and could not be covered by conventions because they are domestic occurrences and lie within the domestic purview of the municipal law. 
An example of a circumstance in which an offence is created as defined in clause 8 (2.) is: 
where the hijacking is committed on board an aircraft engaged in a prescribed flight; 
The Attorney-General has recited the types of prescribed flights. A prescribed flight is a flight which is within Australia, or between Australian territories, or from a territory to somewhere else in Australia: in other words it is a flight lying within the constitutional ambit of the Commonwealth. Clause 8 (2.) continues: 
where the hijacking is committed on board a Commonwealth aircraft; 
where the hijacking is committed on board an aircraft that is owned or operated by the government of a country other than Australia, or of a part of such a country, and is in Australia or is engaged in a flight that commenced in Australia or a flight that commenced outside Australia and ends, or is intended to end. in Australia: 
In other words, it is within the constitutional ambit of power to which such offences may be attached. Clause 8 (2.) continues: 
where the hijacking is committed outside Australia by an Australian citizen on board an aircraft that would be considered to be. in flight if the convention were applicable. 
One or other of those elements docs, in partattract the provisions of the convention. But, in the main, other than the first sub-section to which I referred, which is the prime subsection regarding hijacking, these are offences of municipal law. The opportunity is taken to make them offences which arc chargeable and triable in Australian jurisdiction. I commend the Government for taking this opportunity to broaden the embrace of the criminal law insofar as it deals with domestic offences, committed against aircraft operating in Australia, which are not subject to the provisions of international conventions. This Bill seeks to apply the local law to those situations. 
I do not wish to say a great deal more on this matter. It is a piece of complementary legislation but it is necessary to complete the whole picture. As far as possible, within the available legal and political ingenuity of a nation such as Australia, we must try to deal with such offences as we can contemplate. No doubt in time efforts will be made, and perhaps will succeed, to bypass this law and the other statutes. It will be necessary then for this Parliament again to legislate as the inadaquacies and discrepancies of the law become more apparent. There has been a development of this technique from actual offences committed against an aircraft commander or against persons on an aircraft to a crime committed against the aircraft itself, that is, an attempted seizure which we call hijacking - and it is more specifically that offence which is dealt with in the Bill now before the Senate. 
It is a matter of considerable gratification that it is possible for nations with different systems of law and in different stages of development to come together and after a period to reach a conventional agreement in which they shall call their municipal law in international aid for the prevention of crimes of this nature. It is a very hopeful sign for the world and humanity when this is found possible. We can only hope it is a process that we will see developing in many other areas of life because there are many calls for this type of co-operation. With means of speedy movement across the world crimes can be rapidly transmitted from nation to nation and from country to country and the perpetrators of crime can travel with great speed from one jurisdiction to another. 
The international development of conventional law is becoming of great importance. We would hope that this is only another step in the process of the achievement of general international attitudes on the question of crimes which violate the whole and accepted principle of the desired immunity and sanctity of human and national life. I have nothing to add beyond congratulating the Government on the successful conclusion of this Convention and its final passage into our domestic law. We hope and pray that while the availability of process may not finally deter those who do perpetrate violations of international comity at least this legislation demonstrates Australia's strong opposition to these offences. This action has greater impact as it comes from a country that is not subject in any great measure to this type of crime. 
We are propounding these laws and abiding by these conventions, as a country which has, by virtue of its way of life and political system, certain freedom from crimes of this nature. Nevertheless we have joined in aid and comfort to the rest of the world and for our own protection to play our part to establish an international system of law. I think the nation should take a great deal of credit for our participation in the development of this international accord. The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. We trust that, this being perhaps the pinnacle of the legislative programme in this field, it may have some major effect as a deterrent in a field in which deterrents may not be the answer. But it is the only course available and one that we have adequately, and I hope successfully, seized. 
by leave  -  I join with the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  in expressing to  Mr Ewens,  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, appreciation of the contribution he has made to the operation of the parliamentary institution in this country.  Mr Ewens  conducted the affairs of his branch and of his department over a long period with great personal distinction and extraordinary value to the community. He moved into his position at a time of developing complexity of legal situations, both constitutional and international. It was a challenge to our parliamentary draftsment -  Mr Ewens  in particular - that so many international conventions and other matters of international agreement had to be translated properly, adequately and fruitfully into Australian law. We have often had occasion in the past few years to consider legislation of this  kind  which must have taxed even the high level of ingenuity, expertise and drafting  skill  of the team headed by  Mr Ewens.  The Parliament is indebted to him and his colleagues for the contribution they have made to the presentation and enactment of  this  legislation. 
We are inclined to think of a parliamentary draftsman only in relation to the work he does that is immediately associated with the presentation of Bills. But it goes far  beyond  that. There is the constant  ongoing  task  of  revising and consolidating statutes, regulations and ordinances. There is a continuing burden of work and constant pressure. We often wonder how the members of the staff of the office of the Parliamentary Counsel are able to sustain the unending demands that are imposed upon them. We also welcomed the elevation of the status of this branch to a department and the new designation, Office of Parliamentary Counsel. A new relationship has resulted in connection with this Parliament and with the administration generally. 
We welcome the appointment of  Mr Comans  and  Mr Kolts  to higher positions. We know their work. We have had the benefit  of it.  We know that they will carry on with the same dedication, and no doubt the same distinction, as that which characterised the work and contribution of  Mr Ewens.  On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party I convey to  Mr Ewens  our deep apreciation of his work as a parliamentary officer and, in a Party sense, personally for the assistance that he and his staff have given to us and to the Parliament through his long and distinguished career. We wish him every happiness in his retirement. We hope that his skill  will  not be lost but that in other fields he will still continue to participate in the work of which he now possesses such magnificent knowledge and in which he has still so much to contribute. 
The estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department when they came before Senate Estimates Committee B for consideration did cause that Committee some concern. The Postmaster-General's Department is an enormous one. We were not satisfied that sufficient information was put before us to enable us to discharge our responsibility which was to scrutinise the accounts of that Department adequately in terms of the responsibilities entrusted to us. I think that certain things should be said. First, the Post Office is in a unique position. It is not a Commonwealth department in the true sense. It is not a department whose estimates are presented or whose revenues and expenditures are in what we might call the traditional form. It has various commercial activities. Its vote represents the difference between revenue and expenditure. In those circumstances, the Post Office has a certain amount of independence of operation. Within those terms, the Post Office presented its estimates to the Parliament in the Appropriation Bill which then came before Estimates Committee B. 
In the previous year, those estimates had come before that Committee in the same form. The Senate Committee took no action which indicated that the presentation of those estimates was inadequate. In fairness to the Post Office, it needs to be said that presuming that the Parliament accepted that the accounts of the Post Office were unique and stood in an intermediate position, and presuming that the Senate Estimates Committee was prepared to accept the presentation of those estimates in that form on a previous occasion, the Post Office may have been under a total misapprehension in respect of those estimates. Nevertheless, the Senate Estimates Committee itself to some extent was responsible for the misunderstanding because it did not query the presentation of the estimates in that form at that time. 
That is what I am saying; it had never been questioned. The estimates came before Estimates Committee B in the same form on this occasion. But on this occasion Estimates Committee B did see fit to query the presentation and to ask for much more specification. The Postmaster-General's Department was most willing to co-operate and, I think, realised that perhaps it had been operating under a misapprehension and, to some extent, may have been misled by what appeared to be the acceptance and condonation of the Senate of the presentation of the estimates in that same form in a previous year. At the request of the Committee and responding to the concern of the Committee, a specification in much more detail was presented with commendable speed. This enabled the Committee to investigate the account much more thoroughly. 
There were still areas in which the Committee thought there should have been more specification. One item was referred to, I think, by  Senator Davidson.  That was a vote for 'Incidental and other expenditure', of approximately $60m. That is a very big item even when considered against the total revenue and expenditure of that Department. From recollection that amount would represent approximately the total annual vote for the Department of Immigration which is an example of the normal run of department in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
When the attention of the Post Office, the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral and his officers was drawn to this fact, the immediate response of the officers was that they realised that there should be more specification, that the concern of the Committee was appreciated and that in future the matter would be looked at. Next year we can expect a very much more detailed specification of that item and of other items. While the Post Office may well have consulted the form of presentation of other departments to the estimates committees and while it may well have noted that form and perhaps taken some enlightenment and guidance from that, I do not think, in fairness to the Post Office, it is to be blamed completely because it did not do so on this occasion, in view of the condonation that the Senate had extended on a previous occasion. 
The Post Office is an enormous undertaking. It stands in a peculiar administrative position in relation to the whole structure of government. But that does not in any sense give it an immunity from the same type of scrutiny as other departments attract. I think nobody is more conscious of this now than the Post Office is. I think it is salutary that the Committee has drawn attention to that fact, although not with any great strictures, because to some extent we are in pari delicto - we are equally at fault. 1 think the Post Office is conscious of that. I imagine that next year there will be no difficulty at all and that the Post Office specification of expenditure and revenue will be done in such detail that there will be jio cause for concern or complaint by any estimates committee. In those circumstances I think it is fair to say that, perhaps due to a common misunderstanding or perhaps on one side a certain lethargy and on the other side an immunity which the Post Office thought it enjoyed, the estimates were not presented in the form in which the Committee would have asked that they be presented but that that will be rectified in future. 
I draw attention to the words in paragraph 4 and I suggest that the paragraph should have been framed on the lines implied in  Senator Wrights  interjection. The paragraph states: 
The Standing Orders Committee at this stage recommends to the Senate, without prejudice to any constitutional rights, that Senate committees be directed to refrain from meeting and transacting business after the forthcoming dissolution of the House of Representatives. . . . 
No terminal point is imposed. I think that the words 'and until the newly elected House of Representatives is summoned', or words to that effect, should be inserted. 
I do not know. I feel that at this stage and in these terms it is  left open-ended. I think that a terminal point should be inserted in terms similar to those I have suggested. 
by leave - As to the relative merits of invest ing the State courts with additional jurisdiction as the alternative to the establishment of a second Commonwealth Superior Court, I would not say that my Party, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, has a very definitive policy in this field. Therefore, the views that I express are, to some extent, personal. I must say to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  that I am intrigued by 2 references in his statement when they are taken together. This is the first one: 
The Government sees its present proposals as an exercise in co-operative Federalism what will benefit both the States and the Commonwealth. 
I think it is an exercise in co-operative. Federalism. But I am intrigued by what appears on the fifth page of the AttorneyGeneral's statement. On the face of it, apparently there has been no fundamental conference with the State Premiers in regard to the acceptability of the scheme because the Attorney-General says: 
The State Premiers have been informed of the Government's decision. Although not all of the Premiers have commented on the decision, I think it is true to say, that the decision will be generally well received . . . 
I am surprised that when steps of this kind are taken which will involve the. administration of justice in the States in additional expenditure, perhaps in the provision of further accommodation and even in further appointments to the judiciary - no doubt the Commonwealth will foot the bill - that the States were not consulted as to their preparedness to accept the whole proposition. I am somewhat taken aback to find that the decision, after quite a lapse  of  time, has been taken and that at this stage the reception in some of the Stales at least is not even known. 
Senaor  Greenwood - That is not quite true. 
I am only going on the Attorney-General's statement. He says that the reaction of the Premiers in some States has not yet been disclosed. That is what 1 understood him to have said. 
Yes. Apparently not  all  of  them  have commented. After all, I would have thought that this proposal would have been introduced following prior consultation and acceptance by all the  State  Premiers - or by all the States. 
Yes. Perhaps the Attorney-General might  be  kind enough, wilh the consent of the Senate, to comment on the suggestion that J have put up. Secondly, 1 personally regret the abandonment of the proposal to create  a  second Federal superior court. The arguments that are presented for what is called 'integration' and things of that kind, due to the introduction of the system now proposed, appear to  me  to be nothing more than attempts  to  rationalise a situation. I would have thought that the greatest integration would have been achieved by the creation of  a  court with uniform application of principles and uniform methods of procedure. 
do not speak for any Party in relation to this matter because 1 think the Party has no  firm  policy in this field. However, i would have welcomed the establishment of such  a  court. I cannot accept without some qualification the statement justifying this proposal that the judges who will be exercising these newly vested jurisdictions in the Slate courts will be getting wider experience. Just what value thai will be, apart from the expertise they will bring de novo to the exercise of these jurisdictions. I do not know, because it will not enable them  to  go  on to  the appellant jurisdiction in relation  to  these matters in any other superior court where they would  be  able to draw on the experience that they have gained in exercising these new powers ;n these new jurisdictions. 1 read this statement and heard this announcement with some disappointment because I was expecting that we may have had a new Federal court which 1 think would have been of immense value to developing Australia. 
The only other comment I wish to make pertinent to this matter is that if my recollection is correct and if it is still the law. the High Court in its appellant jurisdiction has jurisdiction, I think under the Judiciary Act, to hear appeals in matters involving property of the value of $1,500. As of right the High Court has jurisdiction to hear such appeals from the State courts. 
Yes, that may be so, but the point J am making is that in matters involving persons convicted of murder in a State court, for example, an appeal to the High Court lies by special leave; it does not lie as of right. I think it is time that this matter was reviewed by the Attorneys-General and that greater emphasis were given to the rights of persons than to the rights of property. I think that perhaps this is a relic of a past age. 
lt may be an erroneous comparison but it appears to me to be a very relevant one and a rather logical one. Perhaps the idea was to relieve the High Court from a multitude of appeals lying as of right in these matters. Nevertheless, I do think that some attention should be given to rectifying the situation. Appeals now involve mostly the personal liberty of people rather than the personal life of individuals. In view of the tendency to abolish capital punishment or not to carry such decrees into execution, I think that emphasis should now be given to this matter, and that the jurisdiction of the High Court in this regard should be reviewed. With those observations. I indicate some personal element of disappointment at the abandonment by the Government of the J 968 proposal which virtually reached fruition. We would hope that in due course the Government might perhaps see fit to change its mind and to redirect its policy. 
I rise merely to indicate that the Democratic Labor Party welcomes the presentation of this measure and supports the principles contained therein. It is a reflection of the growing concern and solicitude for the sick in the community and also of a growing recognition of the new social patterns of life that are developing and an attempt to meet them. I suppose that the Government could be criticised for delays in introducing measures of this kind, but I think we have to be conscious of the fact that it is not possible always to make the great leap forward. The development of new concepts in relation to the care of the sick and the aged, as in other things, often comes in short steps only as an assessment is made of the needs and the social patterns are assessed. Then legislation is introduced to meet them from the public fund. I welcome this legislation. I hope that it will give tremendous relief in those areas where relief is so badly needed, particularly for those caring for the aged sick in their homes. We support the legislation. 
The Democratic Labor Party welcomes the introduction of a measure of this nature and in particular this measure. What is contemplated in the Bill is the creation of an authority under a council of Ministers to investigate the whole matter or urban and regional development. The administrative task in that field has been given to a most distinguished Austraiian who is a world authority in this field. We welcome the Bill because it is apart from anything else in pursuance of our general attitude. This is a period in Australia's history when there must be a fundamental assessment of many areas of Australian life. If one examines the presentations of the Democratic Labor Party in many fields over recent years it will not be by accident that one will see that we have sought to have national investigations of many important matters. We have done so because we feel that there is at the moment a catch-as-catch-can approach to great national problems, the solution to which can be discovered only after a fundamental examination and assessment of what is required. Therefore we have suggested, in turn, a total examination by a commission of the rural industries and a fundamental examination of the rural sector; we have had referred to a Senate Select Committee the question of drugs; we were responsible for the creation of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control to examine the erosion of Australian control and ownership of our national resources; we have had referred matters of education in the field of deprived children and in the field of children living in isolated areas and, if necessary, financial assistance. 
Our whole attitude has been that this is a time for national stocktaking because Australia is now planning a great national future in a completely new and changing world. To do that merely on the basis of seizing a situation and trying to adapt our national policies to it must be completely unacceptable and totally ineffective. Therefore as this is one of the great national problems - the question of urban and regional development - it is only proper that it should be investigated at the instance of the national government with the co-operation of the States so that it may be examined in depth and in breadth and a solution finally presented. That is why on general grounds we welcome this proposition. We may have some qualifications in general terms, but fundamentally we accept the proposition, and for that reason we oppose the amendment which has been propounded by the Opposition. 1 do not agree with  Senator Gietzelt's  comment which he made, I think, while  Senator Webster  was speaking that this is only an advisory body, As I understand it, this is an investigatory body which will examine the problem and come up with solutions. Whether it goes on from there as an administrative or an advisory body is another matter. But at this stage it has been given a particular charter, it is created under a council of Ministers and it is to bring in its report about two-thirds of the way through next year and is to present propositions and solutions. Therefore to dismiss this body as being ineffective and merely an advisory body is in my cogitation a complete misapprehension of the purpose of the Bill and the purpose of the creation of the authority which is proposed in the Bill. 
Australia is in a very difficult position in relation to decentralisation and to the agglomeration of great numbers of people in major cities and towns. So much of our population is concentrated on the eastern perimeter of the continent and so much of that is concentrated in one or two spots on the eastern perimeter. This is due to our geography, the nature of the inland, great distances and many other factors. Therefore a real problem is imposed by the sheer geography and history of this nation and now the nation must set about trying to rectify what geography has denied us and what national history has failed to appreciate. That is the purpose of the creation of this body at this time. The contemplation is that this body will investigate the creation of regional cities and towns as a means of avoiding growing congestion with the attendant problems of the major cities on the eastern littoral. 
This proposition may have particular appeal to the great urban areas of Sydney and Melbourne. It must necessarily be slightly less attractive to Queensland, because the Queensland position is different, again due to geography and to the dispersion of resources. For example, in the far north is the separate and independent sugar industry; it is substantially concentrated in that area though it comes right down the eastern littoral; there are great mineral deposits in the north-west, at Mount Isa, and beef and sheep industries are established in other parts. One sees a natural dispersion of cities and towns and population by virtue of the distribution of resources. Therefore while we have a concentration in an undue degree of population in the capital city of Brisbane in the south-eastern corner of the State, the general distribution of population and the general distribution of regional cities and towns has been very much greater in Queensland than in any other part of Australia. 
If, therefore, the national resources are to be allocated in substantial sums for the alleviation of the problems in Sydney and Melbourne, we welcome that because those cities have serious problems - particularly Melbourne, since Victoria is a small State. There is an undue concentration of population in Melbourne, and to a slightly lesser extent in Sydney. 1 repeat that the Democratic Labor Party welcomes the move to alleviate the problems for those 2 cities, but I would sound a note of warning for the State of Queensland, that the allocation and the diversion of national financial resources to the alleviation of these 2 great urban problems must not be allowed to obscure the situation in Queensland where there may be a problem not of the same intensity but where nevertheless there are regional cities and towns which await their own future development. In other words, Queensland must not be permitted to allow such a situation to develop in that State as has developed in New South Wales and Victoria. But Queensland must be assisted in that role, and the diversion of financial resources to southern Stales to the exclusion in any great degree from Queensland would be totally unfair to Queensland, the State which 1 represent. 
On the question of population distribution it is interesting to compare the Queensland situation with those of some other States. According to last year's census 64 per cent of the Australian population live in what are termed major urban divisions. New South Wales and Victoria have higher urban concentrations  -  69 per cent and 72 per cent respectively - than the concentrations for other States of Australia and higher than the national average. In Queensland, however, the percentage is only 45 per cent, only Tasmania with 33 per cent having a lower percentage of concentration. In Queensland 35 per cent of the State's population is found in other urban divisions, that is, in provincial cities and large towns. The remaining 20 per cent is to be found in strictly rural areas. These figures mean that Queensland's population is already widely dispersed - and much more so than that of any other of the mainland Stales. 
I submit that a realistic policy for Queensland so far as this matter is concerned would be at least the retention of the ratio which is spelled out for Queensland in the figures which I have just quoted, that is, the 45:35:20 ratio. That may not be ideal, more particularly because of the vast extent of the State and the fact that the capital is situated right down in the south-east corner, but if not totally acceptable, it is not a totally unacceptable distribution of population. If the national resources are to be allocated for this purpose, as far as Queensland is concerned there should be at least a diversion in a proportionate amount to sustain the situation which now exists and not allow it to deteriorate. I say this because we know that pressures are already operating, as  Senator Gair  said by way of interjection while  Senator Webster  was speaking, which indicate that this ratio could be lost. The reasons may be many and diverse but it is a fact that many people in the rural areas are unfortunately passing over their small town trading centres and buying in the larger urban centres of the cities or the major provincial towns. Of course, that may be a matter of sheer domestic economics. We know that prices in these more remote places are much higher than they are in inner city areas. Therefore the solution may well be the equalisation of rail freight rales. I think, and I have always thought, that this is one of the greatest remedies that has not been applied to try to sustain our more remote areas. 
Unless we have a national average price for various products so that a person buying a motor tyre al Winton, shall by some method of rationalisation, or some mode of equalisation, pay the same price for the product as would be paid in Sydney or Melbourne, inevitably there will be this diversion of purchasing power and the flight of commerce from rural areas to urban areas. Finally there is a loss of interest in the country areas, with the closure of small stores in provincial areas and, to a greater extent, in rural areas. Practical solutions like this must be advanced. It is all right for me or anybody else to come forward rather sporadically with this type of suggestion, but obviously this is only one of the many suggestions that could be presented as to how this problem should be solved. There must be a body that can take into account all the propositions, problems, difficulties and suggested solutions. That is the body that is contemplated and is being created by this legislation. That is why we particularly welcome it. We say that if this problem is not unique to this country it is certainly in a condition of great aggravation because of the physical and other historical circumstances to which I have referred. 
It will take a master plan to try to find a way out of the extraordinary perplexities and great difficulties. We know that a body such as this cannot be expected to find all the solutions immediately or in a very short space of time. We know that a final solution to this could cause great disturbances to the Australian community, because if we are going to project proper policies of decentralisation and for the sustenance of people and of commerce in rural areas and sustain the economy in the rural and more remote areas of the Commonwealth, then we have to interfere and have to rationalise the various rural industries and the lives of those associated with them. That will be very difficult. It can be done only when the matter is thoroughly examined. This is why the Australian Democratic Labor Party has been consistently concerned at the persistent refusal to examine the problem in depth. I think the absence of a master plan is one of the problems that face the rural sector of the economy and the whole of the non-urban areas of Australia. As I say, I feel that it is surely time that in this Commonwealth we embarked upon investigations that will emerge in, say, 5-year projects, whether in the field of rural production, the field of automation or many other fields such as conservation. What we want are national targets, and at the moment there are very few national targets in this country. It is only when we have national targets that we will discover how we arrive at those targets, the steps we take, the finance we require, what the techniques are that are to be applied towards the discovery of the solution. It is only in that way that, finally, we can come up with the answer. We hope with great confidence that the administrative or investigatory body set up will find practical solutions that can be readily applied. 
I think the only practical way is the way contemplated in the Bill, and that is co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. After all, within the constitutional framework the States have immense responsibilities for the development of the States and the sustenance of their people. Substantially the Commonwealth has control of the available sources of finance, lt is only the marriage of these  2  things and with goodwill from all concerned that can finally lead to a solution. Therefore I say that the Bill projects a very practical approach to a very difficult problem. For that reason I do not feel that the criticism which is implicit in the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party has the validity that warrants its support and acceptance. 1 do not think that this body is some sort of an innocuous advisory body. It is doing the job that must be done, under the most distinguished chairmanship which can bring the necessary skills- 
1 hope that my remarks indicate that 1 realise that there is. I have used terms like complexity, problems arising from geography and history- 
I am not here to recount what may have been a lack of interest by governments in the past of whatever political denomination, and whether State or Federal. That is not my purpose. My purpose here is to indicate that this is a practical approach to a problem which, up to now, has not been properly examined. This is the only practical way in which it can now be examined. Persons who will bring the necessary skills have been appointed. We hope that from this body will come these solutions because this problem is rather like conservation: there are as many propositions as there are people presenting them; there are as many solutions as there are those who put them forward. But it is only by these being welded together and presented to a body that can assess their validity and integrate their application that we can get a solution to this problem. There is no genuine, legitimate and understandable national concern about how Australia is developing. We are concerned about our resources, about their ownership and control. We are concerned about many things. But to have concern is not sufficient. We must manifest our concern by examining and tackling the problems. People running around and saying this should be done or that should be done and articulating from 1,000 mouths a thousand different solutions is not good enough. One stream of ideas must emerge from an authority to which a contribution will be made by those interested. Then we will come up with a national plan. That is what I hope will emerge from this legislation. 
I am sure the States will welcome this participation by the Commonwealth.  Senator Gietzelt  says it may be belated. Probably it is belated. If it is belated that is regrettable, but nevertheless we must acknowledge that over the years there have been rather violent conflicts between State and Commonwealth interests and State and State interests. To have achieved this national approach is something which is extremely gratifying. I hope it will result in what we hope and for which we have been searching for so long. With those few words I indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill and opposes the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party. We hope that next year, when the report comes from  Sir John  Overall and the investigatory body under his control, we will find presented to the Senate some practical ideas which can be implemented within the financial and time resources of the government of the day with the support of the Parliament. We hope that we will see the gradual strengthening of the whole of the Australian nation. We hope that no longer will this be a nation living on the perimeter of the millions of square miles which is Australia but a nation which, in length and breadth, is peopled by viable communities in the most remote areas sustaining life, sustaining production, and having all the amenities, all the assistance, all the educational opportunities and all the commercial possibilities that are now available in such large measure in urban areas. The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
I rise merely to say that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill. As a Queensland senator, I wish to comment on the fact that the Bill is unique in the way that its provisions affect Queensland. For the first time in its history, Queensland has become a claimant State through the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Provision is made in this Bill for the payment to Queensland of an assessed amount, to be reduced by the sum of any amounts paid to it under the Queensland Grant Act 1972. Provision is made also for Queensland to receive in the next financial year a payment based on any special grant assessed by the Commonwealth Grants Commission for the purpose of achieving equalisation between Queensland and the more populous States of New South Wales and Victoria, which is the basis for the financial assistance provided by this Bill. 
There has been some suggestion that Queensland, by applying to the Commonwealth Grants Commission, has lost some measure of budgetary independence. But I think that such an argument has little substance. Relations between the Commonwealth and the States are such that a great deal of mutual trust exists in relation to the necessary supervision by the Giants Commission, which is a condition precedent to the grant of any money. In this respect there would be no undue interference with the financial affairs of Queensland. This additional money will be of tremendous benefit to that State, lt is recognised that for many years Queensland has been suffering a disability which is rectified now under the new scheme by the new formula by which this additional assistance is to be made available. Therefore, we welcome this Bill as a first indication of additional Commonwealth assistance and we hope only that it will not be unduly long before Queensland reaches a position of financial equality with the other States that makes an approach to the Commonwealth Grants Commission unnecessary. 
That is the aim of each Australian State but, desirable as it may be, this is not immediately achievable by each State. Nevertheless, with the ongoing provision of adequate finance, gradually we will see  a  diminution of the financial and economic differences among the States until the stage is reached when the present operations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission will not be necessary. In the meantime, Queensland welcomes the additional grant. Although this assistance will be given, there will be no interference with many rights cherished in Queensland, including Queensland's free hospital system. This will remain untouched as we believe it should be untouched. Therefore, the moneys that are provided by this legislation will go into the general development of Queensland and will be of tremendous advantage to that State which has so much to do in the field of development. The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
I am aware of the discussions and I am a party to the discussions- 
My intervention in this debate will not be at any unusually great length because the Senate is now coming quickly to the end of this session. There is a great deal of legislation still to be considered before this Parliament rises and dissolves. Nevertheless we welcome the presentation of this Bill by the Government, albeit that we consider it is considerably belated. When one looks at the history of the governmental attention to foreign ownership and control one is rather disconcerted that for so long there has been an absence of any definitive, action to operate in this field or to lay down proper controls and disciplines, or for that matter even to accumulate the necessary information. 
For many years there were virtually few guidelines until the former Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  laid clown, somewhat belatedly, guidelines relating to foreign investment in Australia. The Democratic Labor Party over a long period sustained interest in this matter and finally moved for a select committee of this chamber to investigate the whole matter of foreign ownership and control of Australian resources. That committee has been constituted, has met, has taken evidence and has produced an interim and intermediate report. The gigantic nature of the investigation, the necessity to sectionalise its deliberations and its areas of examination indicate just how vast is the problem, how technical is the problem and how careful one must be in attempting to provide solutions. 
Therefore, it is somewhat disconcerting that the Government, in the absence of available information, should take this action, desirable and all as it is. One can only conclude, even in the absence of specific information, that there is sufficient evidence before the Government to warrant the introduction of this Bill, which is intermediate to the presentation of similar and complementary legislation in the new Parliament. Because the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control has been somewhat concerned and has expressed its concern in rather clear terms at the absence of information which would enable judgments to be made in this field, at page 7 of the interim report of the Committee is recited: 
Another problem that exists as a result of the open door policy is the complete lack of quantitative information in respect of almost all aspects of capital inflow as illustrated by the fact that information in respect of Exchange Control Approvals for inward capital movements was published by the Reserve Bank for the first time in February this year. The Committee has been surprised at the complete openness with which overseas funds can flow into the economy, despite the fact that exchange control regulations exist and have been administered by the Reserve Bank since 1939. 
The absence of quantitative evidence has been one of the problems facing this Committee. That the Government should bring in this Bill must indicate that if there is not a somewhat desperate position at least the position has sufficiently manifested itself to require the Government to move as it has done - commendably in this Bill - even in the absence of that accumulated knowledge in depth which the Committee found to be necessary and which so far has not been discovered in Australia. 
Nevertheless, this Bill, so far as it goes, is a very great step. At least it will do something in the intermediate stage while the new techniques are being discovered and while the problem is being examined in greater breadth and depth. That will be the function of the Committee. One is also concerned at the absence of a more positive approach to the whole problem of capital investment in Australia. That is a specific term of reference before the Committee which was inserted designedly because we realised that a nation such as ours - perhaps any nation - must have a continuous inflow of capital for national development. Young underdeveloped countries particularly are in need of capital development. But if that is not to be obtained from outside - that is, if there are to be undue restrictions on the inflow of foreign capital - the only alternative is, within one's own resources, to mobilise indigenous capital into national development or into projects which will merge or impinge on projects of a national developmental character. 
Obviously this Bill does not purport to lay down any plans by which there may be a mobilisation of Australian capital. If there is to be an inhibition on the inflow of foreign capital by way of takeover of the equity purchases in Australian corporations, in the absence of any measures by which there can be an encouragement of the development of Australian capital commitment, we could find ourselves in a position of capital starvation. We could find ourselves in a position where we would have accumulating deposits at call in trading and saving banks and other savings institutions but those funds would not be committed to capital investment. Just how this is to be accomplished is one of the questions to be answered. It is a specific term of reference before the Committee. Whether the commitment of Australian funds is to be encouraged and accomplished by taxation concessions or in some way or another remains a problem to be solved. A formula has to be worked out and a solution discovered. 
Therefore, we must accept this Bill for the merit that is in it; and there is very considerable merit in it. But it only goes a certain distance and does not purport to deal with many of the things to which I have referred. In particular, it is obviously prompted by a developing concern about the specification of the particular evidence which could only come from the development of statistical data which has not been available and which can only become available from now on. It is prompted by a growing, rather inchoate concern or perhaps because of the reflection of a national concern that our ownership and control is passing into foreign hands and something should be done about it. But whatever the basis, whatever the prompting, at least the legislation has very considerable merit. Whatever the solutions may be  Senator Murphy,  with considerable specification, has set out what he believes might be some of the methods by which the mobilisation of Australian funds and their commitment may be accomplished. Of course, a great deal of evidence on that matter has been given in public sessions of the inquiry, and the final conclusions of individual members of the Committee or of the Committee itself will come in due course. But many of the views which  Senator Murphy  has put forward are ones which possibly will be shared by many members as to techniques by the use of which the purpose may be accomplished. Those views may be shared by some of the members, by all of them or by one or two of them. I think that in general terms some of them will appeal to all members of the Committee and, when a report is presented, no doubt will be accepted by many members of the Parliament, if not by the Parliament itself. The intermediate report presented by the Committee already canvasses the matter of the enactment of a national companies Act. This is one matter on which the members of the Committee are ad idem, and I think that would find reflection in the nation as a whole. 
Therefore we must accept this legislation at this stage for the virtue that is in it. lt lays down certain rather simple machinery, it attempts to redress situations that have developed, it provides for on-going situations and it provides for the necessary investigations. I think that in that sense it is considerably in the public interest and shows that the Government has moved to meet a developing situation which is causing national concern and even national alarm. I do not think that at this stage a longer examination of the measure or more detailed reference to its provisions is warranted. So, with those few observations, I indicate that the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill and does not find itself in a position to support the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy. 
We realise that this Bill is a temporary approach; we realise that it is, perhaps, an inadequate approach. However, I think that, firstly, in view of the action which the Government has taken and, secondly, because the Government has intimated that a more final and more comprehensive approach is contemplated next year, it would be premature and unfair to anticipate it by an amendment of this kind, which is somewhat condemnatory and by way of a reprimand, however there might have been some delay and lethargy in bringing in this measure at all. I think that, in view of the action that has now been taken, the interest of the Senate, the operation of the Committee, the fact that an intermediate report has been presented and the announced disposition of the Government to bring down further legislation and to make a further examination in the intervening period, the amendment at this stage might well not be pursued. For those reasons, the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill and finds itself unable to accept the amendment. 
The Airlines Agreements Bill and the Australian National Airlines Bill are being debated together. The first Bill purports to renew the Agreement relating to the conduct substantially of the second airline in Australia, namely, that conducted by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. This is a most important measure. I think it would be unfair to the operating company if the Agreement provided for in this Bill were not renewed in sufficient time to enable the intense and long range forward planning that is necessary in airline operations to be undertaken at the earliest possible date. 
Airline operations are completely different from most other commercial undertakings. There must be long range planning. Orders for aircraft must be placed well in advance. New types are continually coming into production. As the economics of the airline industry are so finely balanced, the failure to present orders for new aircraft and new services in sufficient time can often have a disastrous economic effect upon the finances of an operating company. Therefore, I do not think, in all fairness, that anything sinister - not that it has been suggested that there has been anything sinister - should be seen in the renewal of this Agreement at this stage, lt is something which is inherent in the nature of airline operations because of the necessity for long term planning and to avoid the disastrous economic circumstances that otherwise might be precipitated. A company that operates as the Ansett group of companies does has a particular position in the Australian economy and in the operation of our airlines. Therefore, merely to renew the existing Agreement without the insertion of any of the provisions that are being sought to be inserted on this occasion would be repehensible. If the Government were to renew the Agreement without requiring certain norms to be satisfied and certain requirements to be met, it would place itself in a totally indefensible position. 
I think the Government is to be commended for having incorporated in the renewed Agreement certain requirements which have stemmed from national discontent and concern at certain inadequacies, shortcomings and, in many cases, frustrations and irritations in the operation of our airlines, lt is obvious that this Agreement has not been made lightly on the side of the Government. It is fairly obvious that the Government has been stern to the point of being hard about the terms of the renewed Agreement. When one reads the terms in the Schedule to the Bill of the requirements upon which the Govern ment insisted before agreeing to the renewal of this Agreement one can see, with respect and fairness to the Government, that it has been conscious of the fact that certain matters required rectification and that the way in which to achieve their rectification was to insist upon the operating company and the Australian National Airlines Commission observing certain requirements in relation to the conduct of services. 
Let us look at some of the provisions which are to be found in the Schedule. One of the major complaints in this country has been about the subject of parallel air services and the fact that alternative services have not been available to the travelling public, which in many cases has caused great inconvenience. 1 think there has been a great deal of good will in an attempt to resolve this problem. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  from time to time has assured the Senate of that and has not spared his best endeavours in trying to overcome the problem. But it is an extremely difficult problem to overcome as the Minister has pointed out time and again.  Sir Donald  Anderson, in his annual reports and generally, has indicated that there has been intense activity between the Department of Civil Aviation and the 2 operators to see whether it is possible to work out alternative services in order to avoid the parallel type of operation that exists at present and to provide a better overall air service for Australia. 
Clause 5 of the Schedule to the Bill provides that the Minister may take certain action if he is of the opinion that parallel air services are operating prejudicially to the interests of the Australian travelling public or Australia generally. That immediately puts the operators on the alert. In other words, the good will which has been alleged and which exists must not be merely an empty gesture. There must be a genuine attempt from time to time to overcome the problem and to improve the services. If the Minister is not satisfied that such an attempt is being made - if he is of the opinion that services are operating prejudicially - he can step in and insist on certain things being done. I think that is a very salutary provision. It is one of the many which appear in the new Agreement. Then there is the provision regarding rural air services. 
Candidly, I think that there has been a very stern requirement by the Government in this respect. The Government has insisted on the present rural air services being continued, provided the revenue from them exceeds the outgoings on them. That is a very stern provision. As far as I can see, it does not speak of margins of profit; it merely speaks of ins and outs - of revenue as against expenditure. I think that indicates quite a firm attitude on the part of the Government. 
A series of requirements has also been written into the Schedule to the Bill - which is the Agreement between the Government and the operators - concerning promotional fares, air freight and curfew operations. The subject of curfew operations is a matter of great concern, particularly in the area in which I live in Brisbane, which is, if not adjacent to the major airport, quite close to it, and in suburbs which are closer to the Brisbane Airport than is the one in which I live. I know that plans are in hand for the removal of the whole of the airport complex to a site further down the river, where there are vast areas in the delta of the Brisbane River, which ultimately will provide a most commodious airport, removed from the city and with flight paths right away from the centres of population. But until that is accomplished - it will take some time - this Agreement will require the curfew to be observed. Once again the Government will be in a position to exercise certain disciplines. Those disciplines have been written into the Agreement. The Government therefore, will be in a position to impose, them virtually under statutory contract. 
Another provision of interest in the Schedule is clause 11, which states that the Government is to be informed of the operating costs of - in the case of the Ansett group of companies - such of its operations as concern airlines. There is to be a dissection of the Ansett accounts and such part of them as is attributable to airlines operations is to be separated and made available for governmental and, if necessary, parliamentary or committee scrutiny. Those are very salutary alterations and advances. 1 think that it should be a considerable degree of consolation to those who may not altogether condone or approve of the 2-airline policy to know that, whilst it is to continue, it is not to be a policy at large but a policy which is subject to the very severe disciplines that have been specifically written into the Agreement. Clause 1 2 of the Schedule provides: 
Without prejudice to the operation of clause  8  of the 1961 Agreement,  the  Commission,  the  Company and the Operating Company recognise that the Commonwealth is entitled to fully recover from the air transport industry the costs properly attributable to the provision of facilities for civil air transport . . . 
That refers to such things as air navigation charges and the provision of facilities at airports. Again the operators have been put in the position of having to dissect their accounts. What has been legitimately provided by the Commonwealth must be accounted for to the Commonwealth by the operators. 
I feel that it was wise airline planning for this Agreement to be renewed at this stage. I think the Agreement indicates a desire on the part of the Government, in view of the franchise which is given to the private operator and having in mind the legitimate competition that exists between the private operator and the Australian National Airlines Commission, which is TAA, that  the  airline operators should be required to observe certain conditions. Therefore, to put them on a basis of fair competition, TAA has been given certain extended commercial opportunities which, if seized, will bring about a much more legitimate commercial competition between the 2 operators. For those reasons and without unduly wishing to delay the Senate at this late hour of its deliberations the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. So far as the. amendment moved by  Senator Wriedt  is concerned, the DLP finds itself in the position that it cannot accept the amendment which in part reads:  the Government be condemned for seeking  to  usurp the powers and functions of future parliaments by extending an agreement . . . 
I cannot see that any grounds exist for a proper charge that there has been a usurpation of powers. In view of the long range planning which necessarily must accompany the economic planning of the airline industry I cannot see that there is any attempt to usurp the powers of Parliament. I think it is good economics. It is prudent forward parliamentary planning. I think we would be recreant if we insisted on anything in the alternative which could finally involve airline companies in very great disaster. 1 do not think there is this element of discrimination against the National Airlines Commission which is recited in the amendment. The whole basis appears to be to bring the airline companies into a closer genuine and legitimate commercial competition and requiring both to observe the canons that should be observed in providing adequate, comfortable, convenient and efficient airline services for the Australian airline travelling population. For those reasons the DLP supports the Bill and will oppose the amendment. 
I shall be very brief. I want to indicate the attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to the Bill generally and more particularly to the proposed amendment. We can see what prompts the Opposition to present the amendment. The propositions are probably valid but I want to make one or two comments, firstly about the terms in which the amendment is framed. It states: '(a) has failed to clarify whether responsibility for the protection of Australian territorial waters . . . '. I do not know what exactly is meant by protection'. If it goes to defence protection, which is the first meaning I would attribute to it, in no circumstances is that a State responsibility. The protection of territorial waters must be a federal responsibility and to that extent the amendment must be quite defective. Paragraph (b) states: 'has not acted in a comprehensive way to ensure that Australian territorial waters are protected from all environmental threats from oil . . . '. Again that is framed in the most general terms. I am unable to comprehend what the Senate would express or convey by accepting that amendment. 
 That might be right. I am saying that the Senate would not know what it is supporting in such a comprehensive and widely drawn amendment. It goes on: '(c) has not, on behalf of the Australian people, co-ordinated management of the Australian territorial waters  . . '. Again I am quite unable to comprehend what is involved in that amendment although I understand what prompts its presentation. As to sovereignty over territorial waters, if the Senate is to take an attitude on this most important constitutional and national question it should be done in a very definite way, perhaps by a specific resolution and after proper debate directed to that matter. To dogmatise on the subject by an amendment, somewhat casually phrased, to a Bill that goes to a particular area of concern seems to me to be totally inappropriate. For those reasons the Democratic Labor Part finds itself unable to support the proposed amendment. 
I wish to make one or two very brief observations on  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's motion. The dissolution of the House of Representatives is pending. It is a very fine point - probably a fine constitutional point - as to whether the Senate has any right to continue to function in the absence of a viable House of Representatives. The Senate has moved into a new role in more recent times with the establishment of a series of committees, which have an on-going function and which have very important matters under investigation. It is therefore a matter of concern that the Senate should be stopped from its functioning by the dissolution of the House of Representatives. Whether that is the constitutional position is a problem of very great import and of very great complexity. I have risen at this stage merely to mention the matter and to advert to the fact that the Senate is conscious that, perhaps in the near future, a stand may have to be taken and the Senate may have to consider that it has not only a right but also a duty to insist upon a continuance of its operations. I am thinking not of its legislative function because, after all, the Parliament is  Her  Majesty the Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives, but of its nonlegislative functions of a quasi administrative character - the continuation of committee investigations and matters of that sort. 
It is a moot point whether the Senate should allow itself to be stopped by tha dissolution of the House of Representatives. I had in mind moving a formal amendment to the motion which is now  before the Senate to add the words 'notwithstanding a dissolution of the House of Representatives'. However, I think that that might be an unwise formal amendment to move. I have adverted to this matter to indicate that the Senate is conscious of the position, that the Senate contemplates that it may be necessary to have the position examined in greater depth and that at some stage steps will have to be taken to ensure that the functions of the Senate in the important field of committee investigations and things of that character will not have to stand in abeyance for a number of months until the newly elected House of Representatives is called together. 
I have risen merely to put on record the fact that this matter has been within the mind of the Senate, or at least one member of the Senate, and that it may be necessary in the future for it to be constitutionally resolved. The Senate should have a continuance because of the fact that honourable senators have overlapping terms. I do not think it is within the concept of our parliamentary system for this chamber, the members of which have been directly appointed by the people, not to have such a continuing function. Parallels have been drawn between the functions of the Senate and the operations of the House of Lords within the Westminister system. The House of Lords is a non-elected House whereas the Senate is a House which has emerged by formal contract from the Constitution as a body which has protective rights over the States. I do not think that the Senate should be allowed to go into a substantial dissolution that coincides with that of the House of Representatives. I want merely to put that on record and I shall leave it at that at this stage but 1 do think it important that the fact be registered in this place at this time in the present circumstances. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I  give notice of the following contingent motion: 
That, contingent on the  President  reporting to the Senate that he has received from  Senator Byrne  a notice of intention to move on Wednesday, 28th February, a motion for adjournment to debate a matter of urgency in accordance with standing order 64, I shall move: That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent consideration forthwith of the motion contained in  Senator Byrne s  notice to the  President. 
 I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Attorney-General. In view of, firstly, the very great confusion caused by the recently proclaimed amendments to rules made under the Matrimonial Causes Act and the concern expressed by the judiciary, the legal profession and the interested public as to ' their mode and effectiveness of operation; secondly, the fact' that the former 
Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs had before it a reference by the Senate concerning the law and administration of divorce, custody and family matters and was in the process of conducting an inquiry by taking evidence from the judiciary, the legal profession, academics and representative organisations; and thirdly, the fact that the Attorney-General himself sat on such committee and would be aware of the complexity, difficulty and variance of opinion on the subject of reviewing the field of matrimonial and family law, I ask: Will the Attorney-General suspend the operation of the amended rules, refer the suspended rules to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs when that Committee is reconstituted and defer any further similar action until the Committee has presented a report to the Senate? 
I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the Senate at its rising adjourn until tomorrow at 10.55 a.m. 
I do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely: 
This House asserting in a particular manner its role as the custodian of the rights of the States within the Federation and honourable senators their role as representing the component States of the Federation, take into immediate consideration the following: 
The suggested transfer of islands in Torres Strait from the sovereignty of the State of Queensland and/or the Commonwealth of Australia to the emerging independent nation of Papua New Guinea. 
That no Torres Strait island be transferred from its present sovereignty without a referendum of the people of the islands proposed to be transferred and without a referendum of all the people of the Torres Strait islands. The people entitled to vote at such referendum being those entitled to vote under the electoral laws of the State of Queensland. 
That in no circumstances should any individual 
Australian citizen of those islands have citizenship transferred to that of any other nation unless with his or her explicit consent. 
This matter is raised as an urgency motion. In the long history of the Senate there have been many occasions on which the Senate has been asked to adopt a role related to its general functions, and they have varied from time to time with varying degrees of emphasis. Originally the Senate operated substantially as a States House. However, in the intervening years that character to some extent was lost or was lost sight of, and the Senate emerged substantially as a House of Review, and in that character it has been most active and most effective in recent years. However, the motion I have moved today reinforces the original concept and character of the Senate, which is that it should operate as a States House protecting the States within the Federation. For that reason this urgency motion recites in the preamble: 
This House asserting in a particular manner its role as the custodian of the rights of the States within the Federation and honourable senators their role as representing the component States of the Federation, take into immediate consideration the follow-' ing . . . 
Several matters are then mentioned. The preamble particularly requests the Senate to advert to its role as the custodian of the, rights of the States within the Federation. During my membership of the Senate, this chamber has on occasions adverted to matters which affected States particularly. For example, I have heard debatesin this chamber on the sugar industry which particularly impinges upon the economic welfare of Queensland. More recently a debate in this chamber concerned the creation of the Dartmouth Dam on the border of South Australia and Victoria, a matter of intense interest to South Australians. While those matters were of concern to the relevant States, neither had the particular significance which is implicit in the motion I have moved. The motion deals with the situation in which it may be proposed, and in fact has been proposed, that the geographical and physical limitations of a State should be interfered with. Therefore it is in a very particular way the concern of the Senate in the primary role of its original creation. If I may be pardoned for doing so - I think this is a matter of high importance to this chamber - I should like to refer very briefly to the Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth, the great textbook by 
Quick and Garran. I read from page 414 of this work the chapter entitled The Senate. It reads: 
The Senate is one of the most conspicuous, and unquestionably the most important, of all the Federal features of the constitution, using the word federal in the sense of linking together and uniting a number of co-equal political communities, under a common system of government. The Senate is not merely a branch of a bicameral Parliament; it is not merely a second chamber of revision and review representing the sober second thought of the nation, such as the House of Lords is supposed to be; it is that, but something more than that. It is . the chamber in which the States, considered as separate entities, and corporate parts of the Commonwealth, are represented. They are so represented for the purpose of enabling them to maintain and protect their constitutional rights against attempted invasions, and to give them every facility for the advocacy of their peculiar and special interests, as well as for the ventilation and consideration of their grievances. 
In this debate, therefore, a very heavy responsibility rests upon this Senate in its original concept. A similar responsibility rests upon individual senators as I have pointed out in the preamble:   . . and honourable senators asserting their role as representing the component States of the Federation. 
Every honourable senator must be prepared to regard himself in a particular manner as representing the State which sent him here, and as looking after the interests of one State when an attempt is being made to truncate the geographical and physical dimensions of that State and to transfer part of its territory, probably without the consultation of the people of that territory or State,' to perhaps a foreign nation. Therefore I can imagine fewer matters of higher import or greater significance which have come before this chamber in many years. I ask honourable senators to approach the deliberation of this question with those things in mind. We hope that we will get a vote on this proposition. While the vote, in a technical sense, will be on the adjournment of the Senate, the vote will be substantially on the substance of the urgency motion. I ask the Senate, adverting . to this question of the proposed transfer of the sovereignty of part of Queensland, part of the Commonwealth of Australia, to the emerging nation of Papua New Guinea, to lay down certain propositions and particularly that the people of the Torres Strait islands, the area concerned, must be consulted. That is the important consideration. Therefore, I' appeal to honourable senators to bring their minds to this question with all the seriousness of purpose which should be the background of their very presence in this chamber. 
With what are we dealing? We are dealing with a group of islands that lie between Cape York Peninsula and Papua, which is part of the Territory of Papua New Guinea. The original proposal by the Commonwealth Government was that the boundary should be realigned and that 3 of those islands - Saibai, Boigu and Dauan - should be transferred to the Territory of Papua New Guinea which will soon be an independent nation quite foreign to Australia. Then there was a transposition of that original proposal which said that the line should even be dropped further south of the 10th parallel, that that should be the demarcation line and that all the islands north of that should pass from the sovereignty of the State of Queensland and/ or the sovereignty of the Commonwealth of Australia to the sovereignty of the emerging nation of Papua New Guinea. 
What is involved in this question? 1 was shocked to hear the statement of a Federal Minister that it was only a question of a dotted line. That of course, is a completely inhuman approach to this situation. The fact is that the inhabitants of that group of many islands, possibly number 8,000 or 9,000 people. They are not just 8,000 or 9,000 agglomerate non-homogeneous people; they are not just a collection of people of no particular ethnic, cultural, historical or geographical background. 
I am giving the figure for the whole of the Torres Strait islands not just the 3 islands concerned. The Torres Strait islands are historically the places where these people were born and have lived for generations and generations as a complete ethnic group - a total nation. We are not dealing merely with a series of islands which could be indiscriminately populated by one group here or one group there; we are dealing with a complete ethnic group, a complete nation of Torres Strait islands which in other circumstances could have become a completely independent nation in its own right, as some very small though more populous African nations have become. Therefore, the proposal would be not merely to sever geographically 3 islands from this group and transfer them somewhere else, but to cut through the whole of the ethnic group of the Torres Strait islands - actually to sever a nation. 
If the truncation were to take place merely to separate these 3 islands to which I have referred and to put them in Papua New Guinea that would be bad, but to drop the demarcation line down to the 10th parallel and take probably 4,000 or 5,000 of the Torres Strait islanders out of the sovereignty of Australia and Queensland and transfer them to the sovereignty of Papua New Guinea is virtually the complete destruction of a nation. To some extent it is a type of genocide because you are really destroying the integrity of a nation, and I do not think that in any circumstances Australia should stand by and allow that to happen - certainly not above the expressed will of the residents of those islands. 
I have made some considerable research as to the historical background in which these islands came under the sovereignty of the State of Queensland. In 1879 by action of the then Government of Queensland - it was ratified by statute - the boundary of Queensland was extended and the Torres Strait islands came under Queensland and then, with the Constitution in 1901, under Australian sovereignty. Therefore, there are virtually 100 years of recorded historical sovereignty of the State of Queensland and subsequently of the Commonwealth over these islands in Torres Strait. That is something which cannot possibly be lightly disturbed and this Senate must be alert to see that, it is not permitted to occur. 
I know it is said that this is merely a transposition of 3 small islands, 3 small pieces of land, to a nation that has many similarities in colour and otherwise, and that the islands would pass into its developing sovereignty. But these are different people. The 3 islands which I have mentioned and others lie off the coast of Papua, but the residents of those islands are not Papuans, they are not New Guineans and they are not Australian Aborigines; they are Melanesian people, absolutely distinct from all the other ethnic groups to which I have referred. It is a monstrous suggestion, and it would be even more monstrous to permit this total ethnic group - virtually this , total nation - to be cut in 2, severed, and part of it willy-nilly transferred to the Territory of Papua New Guinea. 
I do not know - and nobody knows - how the new emerging nation of Papua New Guinea will operate. But we do know that the residents of these islands under Queensland sovereignty are hard-working people. They are essentially an island people who make their living by fishing - toy taking dugong and things of that nature. That is their life, that is their life style, and that is something which they must be allowed to maintain and to continue. But to transfer them into a totally different social, political and ethnic climate, where those things may not be available to them and almost certainly will not be available to them, would be to face these transferred people with disaster. 
If ever the Senate were called upon to take its stand in terms of its constitutional position and in terms of the very purpose for which it was created, it is now to step in and prevent this happening. I know there are many legal arguments as to how this could or could not be achieved. There is much legal disputation as to whether in any case these people could be transferred without the authority of the State Parliament of Queensland, which has State sovereignty over the islands, or without a referendum of the people of the State of Queensland or of the islands. There is legal opinion - how strong it is, T do not know - that the matter is open to grave constitutional doubt and there may need to be no consultation whatsoever. Perhaps at this stage I might refer to sections of the Constitution which bear upon this important question. I will recite now from an authority. It states: 
Most relevant to the complicated matter of altering Stale boundaries are sections 111, 123 and 128 of the Commonwealth Constitution. Sections 123 and 128 both refer to the need of securing the approval of the majority of the electors for any alteration. This requirement had been added to the original draft of these sections following the Premiers Conference of 1899. Isaacs- 
Later  Sir Isaac  Isaacs, Chief Justice of the High Court-  argued that the result of these amendments was not an absolute prohibition for altering boundaries except with the consent of the electors. Section 1 1 1 made no reference to such a requirement, and as both it and section 123 were phrased in positive language  (States  'may surrender' territory) it was argued that those sections provided alternative methods, independent of each other: Having established this point it was obviously most judicious to proceed on the basis of section 111. Still another hurdle, however, was the question  of  whether the Commonwealth Parliament had the authority to give effect to the Order in Council  of  1898 which preceded the establishment  of  the Commonwealth and whose implementation had been dependent upon approval by the Queensland Parliament. 
That Order in Council was never promulgated because of the intervention of the Commonwealth. It continues: 
It might be possible to argue that on the basis of the provisions of the Colonial Boundaries Act of 1895 (and Clause 8 of the covering Act of the Commonwealth Constitution)- 
That was the Act of the House of Commons bringing into operation the Australian Constitution -  the King in Council had been granted the power (with the consent of the Commonwealth Parliament) to alter the boundaries of the Commonwealth (and ipso facto those of Queensland) without reference to the electors. 
There is a position which opens the possibility, looking at the matter in the constitutional framework, that the Commonwealth Parliament with Her Majesty in Council - whether that would be Her Majesty in the Executive Council of Australia or in the Privy Council in England - could unilaterally and without consulting anybody whatsoever transfer these territories to Papua New Guinea. 

 Mr Whitlam and  Mr Somare  have recently set out in joint statements their general intention. In a joint statement issued by the Prime Minister and  Mr Somare,  the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea, on 17th January last this appears: 
The Prime Minister said that the Australian Government was willing in principle to negotiate the relocation of the border and indeed was keen to do so and would not allow any narrow considerations to obstruct a settlement, but the Government noted that there were constitutional considerations which had to be taken into account and which might delay the matter. Moreover, it would be most reluctant to be a party to any settlement which was not accepted by the islanders in the respects which affected them. 
There is the obvious and proclaimed intention and attitude of the Prime Minister in conjunction with that of the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea that they think the boundary should be relocated. The proposal is to relocate it as far south as the tenth parallel and they would allow no narrow considerations to impede it. When we consider in the light of the constitutional recitation which I have given the Senate that the Commonwealth conceivably could proceed by unilateral action - or not inconceivably - then there is both the opportunity and the proclaimed intention It could well be that these islands would be transferred by Act of the Commonwealth 
Parliament with Her Majesty in Council, quite irrespective of the views expressed, taken or considered of the people of those islands. 
What is the attitude of the people of the Torres Strait Islands? Recently  Mr Bjelke  Petersen, the Premier of Queensland, made a special tour of these islands and received deputations. The islanders have been down to Brisbane. Their attitude is firm and implacable. They do not want to be transferred from the citizenship of Australia. They do not want their islands to be transferred from the sovereignty of Queensland and the sovereignty of the Commonwealth of Australia. They have expressed that view in every way and the reasons they give for it are proper, just and defensible. They say: 'This is our home. It has been our home for generations'. It was probably their home when the Aborigines came to this continent. These are not migrant people who came there just 50, 60 or 100 years ago. They are not casual seafaring people who have been thrown up on that shore. Their arrival would have been part of a general migration hundreds or perhaps thousands of years ago. It is their home. They have their own life style and attitudes and they do not want them disturbed. 
What is to be the attitude of a government faced with that situation? Are we completely to disregard the attitude of these people? Are we wantonly to lay aside their wishes, their inheritance, their island in the sun? Are we wantonly to lay them aside for some other consideration? A very compelling reason would be required to enable or to justify that being done. What reasons have been given? The most vague reasons of all have been given in statements by the Prime Minister and perhaps by other Ministers. They have said: Well, when Papua New Guinea emerges into independence we want to have good relations with that country'. That seems to be the most compelling reason that has been given. It is nothing more than that. There has been no suggestion that in the event of the proposition not being accepted there will be a very violent rupture of relations between these 2 countries. There has been merely the pious expression of something that we want and on that altar the home and the history of these people are to be sacrificed. Surely nobody could argue for or justify such a climactic and dramatic step - to transfer people from everything they know and everything they have had to another country for such a totally inadequate and unacceptable reason. Surely that is not sufficient. 
These islands have a particular significance to the Commonwealth of Australia quite apart from what they mean to the indigenes who inhabit them. They are an indigenous people. They have their own culture and history. But quite apart from that, and if humane considerations are not allowed to intrude at all, what other consideration affects Australia? We are an island continent and much of our trade comes up the east coast of Australia and moves over to the west. The only substantial sea passage around the northern tip of Australia lies through the great north east passage between some of these islands and the shoreline of Papua New Guinea. If that is denied to us it will be a tremendous deprivation in the sea passage by that route, whether to the west or to, the east. 
This is not a small channel in which casual fishing craft may sometimes appear or into which pleasure craft may intrude. This is a substantial commercial channel through which  hundreds of vessels pass every year. Various calculations have been made, but possibly millions of tons of cargo go by that route. One can only imagine how important commercially and strategically this is to Australia. This channel is comparatively narrow in its geographical proportions. If if fell on one side into hands which, one never knows, tomorrow might be totally hostile to Australia, the whole of the passage through the north east channel would be lost to the Commonwealth. The 2 things might have to be balanced out. The loss of national security and trade opportunities, the economic deprivation to Australia, might have to be balanced against any detriment to the people of the islands and then a choice made for one or the other. However, fortunately in this case the preservation of Australia's commercial opportunities and trade passages up there means that these islands should be retained in the Commonwealth sovereignty. That also implies that these people will remain Australians and the 2 purposes will be accomplished by the one stance on this matter. We will maintain our commercial advantage and security in the area and we will retain these people for what they want in the sovereignty of the State of Queensland and the sovereignty of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
The matter has humane and national overtones and should occupy the minds of honourable senators. I do not know what honourable senators on the Government side who represent Queensland will say or do in this matter. I do know that on the announced statement of  Mr Whitlam  which I have read to the Senate he is in favour of the transfer of these islands. Originally 3 islands were concerned. If the border is brought down to the tenth parallel, 14 islands will be transferred to the emerging nation of Papua New Guinea. That is  Mr Whitlam's  disposition and I take it to be the disposition of his Party. 
What will Queensland senators on the Government side say and what attitude will they take on this question? I think that is very important. I reiterate that that is why we are here and today we have a very rare opportunity of protesting our position and exercising our right as representing a component State of the Federation. It is not a matter which is of peculiar and particular interest to Queensland. The encroachment by the Commonwealth in any State sphere of activity or power, or the physical encroachment by the Commonwealth for reasons of geography, whether they relate to the continental shelf or anything else, has overtones for every State of the Federation. Therefore honourable senators from all States, again operating in their character as representatives of the States, should stand up and be counted on this issue because it goes to the very heart and concept of the federal system. Particularly would I expect support from honourable senators, irrespective of party, who come from Queensland. This is an occasion when they should trespass beyond the bounds of party policy. They should be prepared to trespass on whatever decisions their own parties may have taken and which normally would bind their votes in this chamber. I think the people of Queensland will be alert to the situation. I think they will be greviously disappointed and will feel that they have not been adequately represented if they find that on this issue, one of those rare occasions when the Senate can stand within its original concept in the Constitution, Slate rights have not been protected. 
As I said, the reasons projected by the Prime Minister are not reasons that are in any sense totally compelling. They have not been particularised. They have not been taken out in detail. There has been merely the vague statement that this course would make for good relations for Papua New Guinea. I say this to Papua New Guinea: The people of the Torres Strait Islands belong to a different ethnic group. It may be very unwise and very imprudent for a developing nation to wish immediately to embody within its independence a group which will be different, a group which will not be homogeneous and which may well provide the seeds of dissent by being there reluctantly and being part of a new and developing nation although it is totally ethnically different and with a totally different background. Action could be taken then to exclude them from Papua New Guinea and put them somewhere else but these people cannot lightly be dispersed. They are an island people; their home is on the islands. Their occupation is fishing - catching sea creatures of all kinds. There are very few places to which they could be simply transferred. If one were brutal and inhumane one could suggest giving them another habitat, but they could not just be placed in Arnhem Land or somewhere else in the Northern Territory. They could not be placed in some place in Papua New Guinea. 
 We are not transferring them. They elect to go there and they come back to their own islands, their homes. There are many such people all over the world. For example, there are the classic cases in Europe. Italians and Spaniards work in France although Italy or Spain is their home. They leave their homes in order to work and return at the weekend or for holidays. They regard their own country as their home and they can return to it. That is the thing which maintains them. The Government proposes to deny this to the people of the Torres Strait Islands. It proposes to change completely their life style. 
I do not think that the State of Queensland should stand by and allow this to happen. The Premier of Queensland has taken a strong stand. I would like to pay this compliment to him. He has taken a particularly strong stand on many current issues in Australia for which he has received the overwhelming endorsement of the people of Queensland and, I think, the people of Australia. The Premier has taken a strong stand in relation to the Torres Strait Islands and has made his position overwhelmingly clear. For that I am sure he has the endorsement of the people of Queensland, as he has the overall endorsement of the people of the Torres Strait. Incidentally, the Federal Member for Leichhardt,  Mr Fulton,  is opposed to the transfer of these islands. At the last State election the Democratic Labor Party candidate for the State electorate of Cook was  Mr Ben  Nona, a Torres Strait Islander and a lugger captain. He campaigned substantially on this issue during the State election campaign because the suggestion was already then current. He obtained a tremendous vote throughout those islands. If  Mr Nona  had had more time I am almost sure that he would have won the seat. He certainly will win the seat next time on this issue as that is the response of the people of the Torres Strait Islands to this infamous suggestion. 
I do not think I should unduly engage the time of the Senate because the issues are clear. The might and the power of the Commonwealth may well be mustered without any constitutional inhibitions to sever these islands from the State of Queensland, to completely truncate part of a nation, a total ethnic group, and put it in another nation embracing a multitude of races with which it would be totally alien. 
 I am going to deal with that point. My motion deals with it also. We say that in no circumstances should there be a transfer without a referendum of the people of the islands proposed to be transferred and a referendum of the people of the Torres Strait Islands because, as I say, this should be a referendum of a whole nation. The Torres Strait Islands are a nation just as Australia is a nation. There is a multitude of islands but nevertheless this is one nation and it is appropriate that the island people under threat of transfer should have a plebiscite. I appeal to honourable senators to support the motion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.40 to 8 p.m. 
It is not my intention to enter into the merits of the disallowance motion which is now before the chamber. The position of the Australian Democratic Labor Party was put earlier by  Senator Little.  I rise for a different purpose.  Senator Little,  in the course of his remarks last Thursday said: 

 Senator Greenwood has made it perfectly clear that the Government has to do only what has been done before- to introduce legislation to change the word from 'three' to 'four' in the annual leave provision relating to the Public Service - to obtain the support of the Opposition. There is no doubt about where my colleagues and I stand. We also would agree. We would be prepared to go a step further. If the Government is in any way embarrassed by anything that may take place between it and the Public Service Board or anyone else, we are prepared to state that we will .bring down a private member's Bill. If the determination is disallowed and there is not within 24* hours a measure before the Parliament in this or another place to ensure that the promises of the Prime Minister during the election campaign are carried into effect, we are prepared' to take that step. 1 rise tonight to reiterate that statement made by  Senator Little.  If I may trespass upon the Standing Orders I wish to ask the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  who is the Minister at the table whether, in view of the fact that our attitude has been known for some days, he, on behalf of the Government, is able to indicate at this time the intention of the Government? In the event that these determinations are disallowed because of this motion is the Government prepared to bring down a Bil) to legislate for 4 weeks annual leave for the Commonwealth Public Service across the board without any attachment? ls the Minister in a position to give me a reply? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry read a report of the speech delivered yesterday in Brisbane by the Junior Vice-President of the Queensland Cane Growers Council,  Mr K.  A. Day, at the opening of the annual conference of that Council in the presence of the Minister for Northern Development,  Dr Patterson,  who delivered an address? In his speech the Vice-President,  Mr Day,  expressed the very grave concern of the sugar industry in regard to the probable financial loss to the industry if Australia did not move its currency rate against the Ameri can dollar.  Mr Day  suggested that there would be a reduction in export income to the sugar industry of perhaps $30m a year after 1974 and something approaching that amount this year. Can the Minister indicate what steps the Government has in mind, whether by means of exchange variation or otherwise, to offset this immense financial loss? 
This is very important 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Order!  Senator Byrne,  resume your seat, please. When I took the Chair I asked that each senator be heard with due courtesy. The Senate responded and, by and large, heard the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  with courtesy. I ask that the same courtesy be extended to every other honourable senator. I propose to ensure that they receive the same protection. I call  Senator Byrne. 
Thank you. I was trespassing somewhat on the standing order relating to interjections to ask the Minister at the table whether he would indicate, in view of what  Senator Little  said some days ago, whether the Government is prepared if this motion for disallowance succeeds - and I think the Senate agrees that it will succeed tonight - to undertake to introduce legislation within 24 hours to provide for 4 weeks annual leave for the Public Service across the board without any qualifications or discriminations. Is the Minister able to assure me that the Government will do that? 
Ask for leave. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! This is an unusual procedure. You have asked a question of the Minister in the course of your contribution to the debate. If the Minister wishes to reply he will have to seek leave of the Senate. Does the Minister wish to do so? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Do you seek leave? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTLeave is not granted. 
I very much regret that apparently the voices supporting the Minister are not prepared to allow him to make a declaration of Government policy on a matter which should be apparent. Therefore unfortunately I must proceed on the basis that the intensions of the Government are not known and that it has no clear mind to grant 4 weeks leave to the Public Service. I must proceed on the basis that the Government was not able to establish its proposition that it shall be only a contingent grant of leave and that it is not prepared to grant 4 weeks leave to the Commonwealth Public Service. If the Minister had given me the assurance that the Government would introduce legislation I was going to allow it to take the necessary steps. But in view of what has happened I must fall back on the assurance we gave the Government and that is that if this motion is determined in the Senate we will not move for 24 hours. The Government will then have 24 hours in which to bring down a Bill to provide 4 weeks leave without qualifications if it chooses to do so. If it does not do that within 24 hours we propose to present our own Bill to provide for 4 weeks leave. The Bill has been drafted and printed. It is in my hands.  Senator Little  will be handling the motions which are necessary to introduce and present the Bill. 
I have the Bill here. We are prepared to go ahead immediately. If the Minister had said: No, we are not prepared to do that,' we would have proceeded immediately but the Minister has not been prepared to say that. Apparently he is asking for time. We have assured him that we will give the Government 24 hours. We abide by that undertaking. I present to the Minister a copy of the Bill which we propo.se to introduce. We hand that Bill to the Government and we ask it to consider introducing it either in this place or in the other place within the next 24 hours. Tomorrow, by which time I think we could say 24 hours have expired, the Labor Party meeting will have had an opportunity to consider this matter. We then propose to use the Standing Orders to introduce the Bill and, because it is important and urgent, to use the form's of the House to provide for the earliest possible passage of the legislation. I must express my disappointment that, in a matter where Ministers at the table have spoken with such heat and with some definiteness, still the attitude of the Government to this matter has not been disclosed. 
One must query the real attitude of the Government to the provision of 4 weeks leave for the Commonwealth Public Service. I leave the matter at that. I am indebted to  Senator Wright  for enabling- me to intervene before he spoke so that the matter might be clarified at an early stage in the debate. It now rests with the Government. Within 24 hours we expect the Government to either bring in the Bill or indicate that it will not give leave across the board without qualifications. In that event, tomorrow we will introduce a Bill to do pre cisely that. Because of the expectation of the attitude of the Senate I anticipate that that Bill will be passed in this place. It then can go to the other place. There the Government can assess whether it is prepared to reject 4 weeks leave for the Commonwealth Public Service or support our Bill and grant 4 weeks leave in terms of the provisions in the proposed legislation. 
I am concerned about the designated personnel of the Committee of Privileges. I should have thought that privilege would be something that would be within the preserve of the whole of the Senate and that, therefore, the membership of the Committee should be as representative as possible. There is a significant Party, apart from the independent senators, in this, chamber which, from my understanding of the quick recitation by  Senator Murphy,  has no member on the Committee of Privilege. Am 1 correct in saying that,  Senator Murphy? 
 I believe that that is a very bad oversight and one which should not be accepted by the Senate. I will not make an issue of it today but I think the membership of the Committee could well be re-examined in the light of the matter to which I have drawn attention. Privilege is a very jealously guarded preserve of the whole of the Senate. I think that, as far as possible, the membership of the Committee should be representative of all political parties in the Senate. I merely wished to draw attention to my belief. I hope that there will be a rectification of the situation before this motion is put to a vote. 
 I must draw attention also to this proposal. The House Committee is obviously the type of committee that must embrace the preservation, protection and availability of facilities to members of this House. I cannot see why not one of 8 honourable senators in this chamber  -  3 Independents and 5 members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party - is not included in the membership of this Committee. It is incredible to think that such an arrangement could be made apparently without consultation with those 8 honourable senators and without an invitation to one of them to join the Committee. I think I should move for an adjournment of the debate on this motion to enable the matter to be reconsidered. Accordingly, I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
 I ask whether the attention of Independent senators and members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party was drawn to the fact that certain senators were to be appointed to the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. I ask whether the Independent senators and members of the DLP were asked whether they had an interest in the appointments. I am not aware that we were informed. Advice could have come to our Party. I am not aware of that. I am interested to know whether we were informed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-It is greatly to be regretted that the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  should have seen fit to claim that the very mild, very sane and very rational motion proposed by the Australian Democratic Labor Party is nothing more than a political stunt. There was only one of all his remarks with which I could agree, that is, that there are very few areas of discussion which occupy more of the time of this Parliament than the area of foreign affairs and defence. As honourable senators know, the Democratic Labor Party has always elevated these matters into the forefront of national consideration. We have taken our stand on them even at times when to do so was not popular. The Democratic Labor Party has often taken a stand on policies because they were embedded in principles, although they were politically unpopular and unrewarding. We make no excuse for our continued defence of the situation in relation to Australia's involvement in the countries to our north west and north east. That is a strong policy; it is a clear policy; it is a consistent policy; it is a policy which we have always projected. 
The point at issue in this debate, as  Senator Willesee  indicated, is: 'What is the attitude of the nations in South East Asia to the Australian presence in that area?'  Senator Willesee  says that they do not want us there and that to suggest they do is merely an outmoded approach to foreign policy - a sort of nineteenth century neo-colonialism. 1 had the opportunity to be in that area about 18 months ago with a parliamentary delegation. We visited Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore. Everywhere we went we had high level discussions. We had discussions with General Nasution, with Lee Kuan Yew, with Tun Ismail, and with Adam Malik in Indonesia. Honourable senators will realise that I do not attribute to any one of those persons anything I might now say, because to do so would be a breach of faith. I am going to give to the Senate the composite, as I assessed it, of the concern of the leaders of those countries in relation to the vulnerability of the area and the significance of the Australian presence. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to paragraph 2 on page 25 of the Attorney-General's statement in which he says: 
Even after these ministerial complaints the attitude of Attorney-General Hughes and his successors was one which ASIO described to me as that of indifference' to the problem. . . 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, follows a question I asked of him earlier and in reply to which the Attorney-General indicated to me that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation was concerned because the Ministry had not been advised of ASIO's concern about the Yugoslav-Croatian position and that he was informed to that effect by  Mr Barbour. 
Is that not right? 
In response to an earlier question the Attorney-General said that ASIO was concerned at the ministerial indifference to its concern about the Croatian situation and that he was advised to that effect by  Mr Barbour.  The inference to be drawn from that is that ASIO was particularly concerned. In view of that, why was it necessary to raid ASIO when it was so concerned at the ministerial indifference? Why would it not volunteer its concern and save the necessity for a raid or any other intrusion? 
I speak on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party and, in particular, on my own behalf. The Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances congratulates  Senator Wood  on the work he has done and the contribution he has made to the functioning of Parliament as a member and  Chairman  of the Committee. I pay this tribute to him, I being, in this chamber, perhaps apart from  Senator Wright,  the one who at the earliest time was associated with him on that Committee. I have been a member of it, except for some years, since I think 1951. The Committee, by its nature, really is a professional committee. It is one on which a number of legally qualified gentlemen sit, and it is one before which legal problems come up for constant attention.  Senator Wood  is not a lawyer, but in spite of that he always enjoyed the respect of all members of the Committee. Those who had professional qualifications brought their particular professional skill to it and operated under a lay  chairman.  They respected his judgment and they respected his acceptance of their professional advice. 

 Senator Wood is one member of this chamber who has a particularly high regard for the parliamentary institution. I do not know whether this is as a result of his work on the Committee or whether his dedication to the Committee is as a result of his interest in Parliament and in its proper functioning, but certainly  Senator Wood  is essentially a parliamentary man. That, I think, is reflected in the work he did on this Committee which essentially is in the interests of Parliament and in the interests of the parliamentary proceedings. On behalf of the Democratic Labor Party I thank  Senator Wood  for the work he did on this Committee for this Parliament. It was a long term, it was a fruitful term, and it was a term that will be remembered always in the records of the Parliament and in the recollections of those who had the privilege of serving with him and of knowing of his work on this Committee. 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, has been somewhat anticipated by the Minister. However, I will ask it. In view of the acute concern throughout the nation that there should be a frank disclosure by the Attorney-General of the reasons for his moving in with the Commonwealth Police on Australian Security Intelligence Organisation offices in Canberra and Melbourne and the even graver concern now entertained in all quarters of the nation and finding expression in the media, that the Attorney-General in his statement to the Senate yesterday confined himself to Croatian activities in this country but failed to give any reason for the exercise against ASIO or any details of that exercise and failed to inform the Senate and the people of the purpose and intention of it, will he inform the Senate fully of the exercise involving ASIO, including the reasons for it, and the nature and sources of the information which came into his possession which persuaded him to take the course of action which he took? I ask that, consonant with the preservation of the necessary security, this being in the discretion of the Attorney-General. Will he be prepared to come before a committee of the Senate to provide that and any associated information, again consonant with such protection as is still available to the security service in Australia? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Was the Canberra Regional Director of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation aware of the existence or the contents of the document which was discovered in the regional office by the Attorney-General and which caused him some concern, the release of which even today would gravely prejudice Australia's security? If so, was the Regional Director equally concerned as the Attorney- 
General about the contents of the document? If the Regional Director was not aware of its existence or content, why was he not aware? Was he asked why he was not aware? If he was aware of it, was he asked why he was not concerned about it? Finally, has any disciplinary action been taken in ASIO against any officer because of incompetence or inefficiency which denied a proper assessment of this information which the AttorneyGeneral said should have come to him? 
As this debate draws to its close it should be said that perhaps the time has passed for any technical dissertation on the implications of the rules. We have had contributions from most distinguished lawyers in this place, from people eminent in their profession and those who are very experienced in this field of jurisprudence. Therefore I think it would be unnecessary for me to go into a technical analysis or dissertation of the implications of these rules. However, a number of things should be said. In the first place, I think (here is a concurrence of opinion not only here in the Senate and amongst political parties but also in the community that many new approaches are necessary to the whole question of matrimonial causes. That the Senate has been conscious of this need was demonstrated by the fact that a reference of the whole question of divorce was made to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. That reference is now before the Committee and an interim report, more particularly confined to the presentation of discretion statements in matrimonial proceedings, has been presented. 
However, what concerns us in relation to the rules is that there has been such severe judicial criticism and such turmoil and criticism within the profession as to the adequacy of the rules, as to whether they accomplish in any way the purpose which they purport to accomplish and whether in fact by th method of their drafting and by their form they have not created a situation very much worse than that which they purported to avoid. That is the real crux of the discussion now before the Parliament, lt should not be thought that there is a lack of good will on either side of the House to a more modern approach to matrimonial causes.. I do not think it should be suggested that anybody in this place has a desire to protect the professional income of those associated in the legal profession with matrimonial proceedings. That is not the purpose or intent of anybody in this chamber. Our purpose is to try to reflect in the best possible manner a more modern concept in many of these matters to the advantage of those unfortunately involved in matrimonial proceedings, with particular regard to the welfare of the families and children of parties involved in divorce litigation. 
It is because these rules have been promulgated hastily and drafted casually that we find that these purposes have not been accomplished. That is why the Senate and particularly  Senator Wright  and the signatories to the disallowance motion are concerned that the matter should come before the Senate and the rules should be re-examined. I repeat that already there is a reference before the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs as to the whole matter of divorce. If the motion succeeds tonight and the rules are disallowed, I propose tomorrow to give notice of the following motion: 
That the amendments of the matrimonial causes rules as contained in statutory rule 1973 No. 8 made under the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959-66 and disallowed by resolution of the Senate on 28th March 1973 be referred to the branding Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
I know that  Senator James  McClelland has suggested that this would imply a very long and undue delay and that injustice could he caused thereby. As I say, already the Committee, conscious of the imposition on parties to divorce litigation through the continuance of the discretion statement, has brought in an intermediate report that the implication nf these discretion statements should be abandoned. I see no reason why this Committee, while having before it the whole question of divorce, and having taken already extensive evidence, should not give priority to this segment of the investigation once this matter is referred to it, bring in an early report and then Government action in pursuance of that interim report dealing with this segment, if it is approved by the Senate and accepted by the Government, could proceed without undue delay; and therefore in a regular and proper way, by legislation and not by regulation, the whole matter could be resolved to the satisfaction of those who are concerned with the proper application of rules in the proper fashion and those who are determined to see that matrimonial justice will be available and will be done at the minimum cost to those who are involved. 
One other matter that is of great concern is the suggestion that things have been done in relation to. this matter by regulation and by alteration of rules that should have been done by substantive legislation. 1 think that this highlights something that is of immense danger in the community. I am interested to see  Senator Cavanagh  sitting at the ministerial table in charge of the Senate at the moment, because for 4 years or more he and  Senator Murphy  have carried on in the Senate a persistent and even an implacable campaign against the transposition by rules of the rights of the legislature and the doing of things by rules, regulations or exercises of ministerial discretion that should more properly be done by statute. This was a persistent campaign by the honourable senator. I know that from time to time amendments have actually been moved in the Senate to try to give effect to that principle. 
Recently, during the period of the interim Administration of  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Barnard  before the full Cabinet was appointed we had one demonstration of this principle that I think is essentially dangerous. It arose in relation to the National Service Act. I am not discussing the rights or wrongs of the National Service Act. What I am saying is this: Under that statute every young man on reaching the age of 20 years was required to register for national service and was then subject to a ballot. That was a statute of the realm. But by one section of that Act it was made possible for the Minister in charge of national service to dispense a class of persons if. in the national interest, he considered it right, prudent and proper to do so. The Act contains words to that effect. 
Obviously, the purport and intent of that section was to give the Minister a discretion to exercise if, for some national reason, some particular category, we will say, of employees required protection because their services were still required in civilian life. I think that that is the way the statute was to be interpreted. But, operating that section, the interim Administration lifted the whole compulsory registration provisions of the National Service Act by ministerial order, dispensing every category that might te available for registration from the requirement to register. If that is the position it was, in fact and in law, a repeal of the statute by ministerial order - not even by regulation subject to disallowance in this place, not by statute of repeal, but by ministerial order. That is an extremely dangerous procedure and it is greatly to be regretted that the suggestion can be made in relation to this matter that in the same way matter that should have been done by substantive law has been done by the alteration of rules. Therefore, as I say, the technical aspects of this matter have been canvassed.  Senator Wright,  in his opening address supporting this motion of disallowance, succinctly, clearly and on a number of specified heads indicated where the imperfections of the rules lay. I do not think there has been any successful refutation of the propositions he put forward. They still stand as a complete condemnation of these rules. 
I think that the only thing to do is to disallow the rules, let them be quickly looked at to see whether the principles embodied in them are worthwhile in the light of evidence that will be taken and in the light of evidence already given to that Committee, and then let the Committee bring in a fairly early report on aspects of these rules and let the Parliament itself decide what should be done. In these circumstances I support the motion for disallowance of the rules and indicate to honourable senators that if the motion is carried, as I expect it will be carried, tomorrow I shall move in the terms of the motion I have stated, and the reference will be laid down to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with a suggestion that the earliest possible consideration be given to an examination of this segment of the divorce situation so that the position can be remedied insofar as concepts which are embodied in these rules that are worth preserving be embodied in proper statutory form. I support the motion. 
-I preface my question to the Attorney-General by noting the growing concern, first at the failure of the AttorneyGeneral to inform the Parliament and the nation of the necessity or the reason for the extraordinary raid on Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, or to satisfy either as to the prudence of such action, and, secondly at the developing body of public opinion that the matter must be the subject of a suitable inquiry in depth, whether parliamentary or non-parliamentary. I refer to a reply given to me by the Attorney-General in the Senate last Wednesday when I asked him whether he would be prepared to come before a Senate committee to provide information. The Attorney-General replied: 
I will discuss with the Prime Minister whether the appropriate course is for me to come before  a  committee. 
Has the Attorney-General discussed the matter as promised with the Prime Minister? If the answer is yes, is the Attorney-General prepared to come before a Senate committee? If the answer is yes, he has discussed the matter with the Prime Minister but the decision is that he will not appear before a committee, is that his decision or that of the Prime 
Minister? If he has not discussed the matter with the Prime Minister, when does he propose to do so? 
The Attorney-General has indicated that an investigation is taking place into the performance within the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in relation to information withheld from the Government. Can the ' Attorney-General inform the Senate whether that investigation involves the administrative insufficiency or inadequacy of the Director-General and the more senior executives of ASIO, or whether it is an inquiry going into the conduct of more subordinate officers of the Organisation only, or. whether it is directed to both? 
The Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill. One of the most encouraging features of Australian life is the development of international trade. Just how far this will go we do not know. We do know, however, that relations between countries can be stimulated and strengthened by international commercial activity. Undoubtedly any organisation such as the Corporation we now have under discussion, which can bring traders and other people of other countries together, must be making an enormous contribution to the establishment of mutual goodwill quite apart from the finance and economics involved in the development of reciprocal trade. We can expect to see in this part of the world new trading patterns, and the Democratic Labor Party, of course, contemplates the development of something in a slightly different context equivalent to the European Economic 
Community. We can see that for nations from Japan in the north to this highly industrialised nation of the south and coming through thai non-homogenous group of nations including Indonesia, the Philippines and Malaysia, there is a possibility of developing a commercial trading community of tremendous mutual advantage to all the participants in the commercial trading union. As a prelude to the development of such, the activities of a body such as the Corporation which is the subject of this Bill can create the basis of trade which can develop then into a regional trading operation. Quite apart therefore from the actual benefit of this in the immediate national life and to the traders concerned, we see its far-reaching benefits and we are all delighted to give this Bill our enthusiastic support. 
I ask a question of the Attorney-General and I refer to what I regard as the growing concern and confusion in the nation in the absence of clear and full information as to the circumstances of the AttorneyGeneral's personal intervention in the operations of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the consequences which flow from it. I refer to 2 answers given by the honourable senator to questions directed by me to him on 28th March and 3rd April. On 28th March I asked the honourable senator whether he was prepared to come before a Senate committee of inquiry. On 3rd April he said: 
There are some conflicting accounts of what occurred, lt is not for me to prejudge what occurred and inquiries are still going on into the matter. I think it would be premature to determine the question whether I should appear before a Senate committee. However, I inform the Senate that the state of affairs I have mentioned certainly will not be allowed to persist. 
That was part of the answer given on 3rd April. On 28th March I had asked the Attorney-General this question: 
. Will he be prepared to come before a committee of the Senate to provide that and any associated information, again consonant with such protection as is still available to the security service in Australia? 
The Attorney-General replied: 
I will discuss with the Prime Minister whether the appropriate course is for me to come before a committee. 
And he went on to say: 
The matter has been discussed with the DirectorGeneral of Security . . . 
I now ask the Attorney-General whether he has discussed the matter with the Prime Minister and whether he would be prepared to come before a Senate committee of inquiry, if such were constituted, or any other body of inquiry if such were constituted? 
On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party I indicate that we approve of the motion in its amended form. I speak because I was the one who had the pleasure of writing down the original constitution of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. 1 am delighted to see that it is being reconstituted. I hope that it will continue to bring in fruitful reports in its very important area of investigation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 5.43 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr President, the hour is late, but I think that at this stage of the debate I should indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. The history of events which led to the presentation of this Bill is of very recent origin and is thoroughly known to honourable senators. There was the determination of the Public Service Arbitrator and it was implemented by the Government with the addendum that only those who joined industrial unions should receive the benefit of 4 weeks annual leave. That promulgation of the award was disallowed in the Senate. At that stage the Democratic Labor Party indicated clearly to the Government that if the Government did not proceed forthwith to introduce legislation to provide for 4 weeks annual leave, without any qualification, across the board in the Commonwealth Public Service, our Party would introduce a private members Bill to do it. The Government indicated that it would respond to that and that it would introduce a Bill. The Bill has been introduced, and that is the measure which is before us tonight. 
The original intention of the Government was one which was totally indefensible. It was resented very bitterly in the Public Service because it required people to join industrial organisations - perhaps against their will - so that they could get the benefit of an industrial award to which they were entitled in terms of the arbitration and which, if it had gone only to a segment of the employed community, could have created very great disruption and very great recriminations within the whole employed body of the Commonwealth Public Service. We congratulate the Commonwealth Public Service on what is a very great industrial advance. We are happy that this has been done by legislation. 
I make the point that the Democratic Labor Party, in taking the stand it did on this matter, was conscious of the stand that it has always taken in relation to the mandate given to the elected Government. We said very early that the role of this Party would be to support the Government in matters where it had a clear mandate from the people, with the right to express reservation, criticism and perhaps qualification. In this case the Government had a clear mandate to introduce 4 weeks annual leave without qualification. But the Government elected to depart from that mandate and the Democratic Labor Party brought the Government back to the strict and honourable observance of the mandate, which has now been done. We hope that in the future we shall not have the same occasion to remind the Government of the mandate that it has received from the people and that the mandate shall be always strictly and honourably observed. In those circumstances we support the Bill. 
Debate interrupted. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party, in common with the Liberal Party and the Country Party, and of course the Government which brought in the measure, enthusiastically supports this Bill. I feel I should make one comment which stems from a statement by the Minister in his second reading speech, in which he said: 
I would mention that at the time of Papua New Guinea's admission to the Asian Development Bank Australia gave an undertaking to the Bank in accordance with Article 3.3 of the agreement establishing the Bank that, until Papua New Guinea itself assumes responsibility for its own international relations, Australia would be responsible for all obligations that may be incurred by Papua New Guinea by reason of its admission to membership in the Bank and enjoyment of the benefits of such membership. 
That statement predicates the contemplated situation that when Papua New Guinea assumes political independence a new relationship will develop between Australia and that country in which that country will e considered to be on its own and free from the solicitude, regard and attention that are now being devoted to it by Australia. If that is in contemplation, I think that it could be a very unwise proposition. While Papua New Guinea may well achieve political independence very quickly, it will by -no means have achieved economic independence or even complete economic viability. It will still require support and sustenance. The logical place from which that should come is Australia. Therefore, the Government of this country should still contemplate the fact that, if Papua New Guinea in its present position of what we may call dependence receives guarantees from Australia for the Asian Development Bank to support its loan indebtedness, no vastly different position should be allowed to obtain merely with its emergence into independence. 
I think that that regard, solicitude and favoured nation type of support should continue to come from Australia. If they do not, a situation will be precipitated in which the nation will have political independence and, if it is economicaly starved or finds itself economically inadequate, the real danger will arise there, as it has arisen in other countries - political independence founders and finally sinks on the shoals of economic insufficiency. Then the position of Papua New Guinea politically, socially and economically could be really bad. Therefore, I think that the Government should at the earliest stage give some indication of its attitude from the point of view of financial and economic support to these Territories when they emerge into political independence. Otherwise, as I say, we will precipitate a situation in which a tremendous danger might be posed to the very political independence which that country has sought for so long. 
Having said that, I indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill with considerable enthusiasm. We trust that this support, which in this case will improve transportation in one of the areas of the world in which transportation at a high level can be of the very greatest significance, will help to build a transport system through the whole of Papua New Guinea so that, with that as a base, economic improvement and expansion can come all the more quickly, readily and effectively to the emerging independent nation of Papua New Guinea. The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  The very nature of this exercise is that the matter will rise in emergent circumstances. A very great power is being exercised. There may be on some particular occasion or in relation to a particular matter an element of high concern among honourable senators which in their opinion warrants the calling of the Senate. It would be a matter of great moment or great urgency, or both. In those circumstances the overriding consideration must be that if it is the predponderant opinion of the Senate that it should assemble, the facilities must be made available to enable that to be done. 
In the situation contemplated in the proposition presented by the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, we visualise a situation where it would be the desired opinion and perhaps the express view of 31 honourable senators that the Senate be assembled. But individual requisitions are required. One honourable senator might be out of communication and might not be able to be contacted or for some other reason his requisition may not reach the person with whom it was to be deposited. Therefore that meeting of the Senate could not take place. 
The overriding consideration is the facilitation of the calling of the Senate if that is contemplated by a majority of honourable senators. That could be achieved within the party system by the Leaders of the various party groups receiving from their members the authority to speak and to act on their behalf in this type of emergent circumstance. That seems to me to be a reasonable and prudent procedure to follow. Party members would be confident that their leader, as  Senator Withers  said, would not operate against the views of his senators collectively or of any individual senator. A leader would not purport to represent or present his opinion where it was contrary to what the individual senator holds and wishes. The leader would be able to present the individual members in the aggregate as a composite price to you,  Mr President,  or to the  Deputy President  or to the  Chairman  of Committees, in the event that those honourable senators want a meeting of the Senate summoned. 
In those circumstances I think that this is the way in which the Senate should operate. I do not think the Senate should place any impediment in the way of this procedure being adopted. 
There have been situations about which the Senate has been gravely concerned and has felt that it should operate quickly. It would be wrong and totally undemocratic if, because of some technical intervention which we ourselves created, we denied the Senate the opportunity to do what it wished. While there is obviously a concurrence of opinion on all sides that the Senate should have a free opportunity of assembling when that is the expressed desire and opinion of the majority of honourable senators, there is a difference as to what should be the form in which this compliance shall take place. We of the Democratic Labor Party believe that in entrusting the leaders of the party groups with this opportunity - in the case of independent senators independent requisitions would be required - and in displaying confidence in the leadership that it will speak properly, it is a matter for the leadership of the parties to determine what authority they would require from individual senators. 
It may well be that the Leader of the Opposition would require an express individual authority from his members to be deposited with him. In circumstances in which he considered that the Senate should be called together he would carry with him the authority of individual senators to act on their behalf and he would lodge a requisition with the Senate on behalf of those individual senators. That may be a matter which has to be determined by the leader of a party. It would merely reassure him that he carried authority with him. 
So far as you are concerned,  Mr President,  or somebody who may be acting for you, I think you would require no assurance from the leader that he has been so authorised. I think you would accept that a leader of a party purporting to act on behalf of any senator or any group of senators of his own party was so authorised. 1 think you could operate on the basis that those senators, individually and by that method, were requisitioning a meeting of the Senate. I think you should have and would have no doubts on that account. However, if you felt that that was not adequate authority for you, you could insist on the adoption of a suggestion I have presented, namely, that in those circumstances you could have lodged with you an individual authority by the leader of a party that he was authorised at all times to act on the authority of individual members of his party. In thos* circumstances if you received a request from the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party you would then consult the authority then in your possession. You would see that he had a continuing authority to act for his members and you would accept that as a requisition for a meeting from the 5 members of the Party. 
If you thought that procedure was necessary, or if - and I think more properly - you acted on the basis that he is so authorised, or that he is purporting to be so authorised, then I think that we would facilitate this very democratic process of allowing the Senate to be called together only in those urgent circumstances but with the minimum of technical interference to enable a matter of urgency and importance to be discussed in the forum of the Senate. For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party supports the proposition presented by  Senator Withers. 
I address my question to the Special Minister of State, in his capacity as Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the deep national concern regarding the execution of Australian citizens in Yugoslavia and the concern expressed in this chamber, as well as the multiplicity of questions addressed to him over various areas of this whole matter, will he consider laying down, for the information of the Senate, the Parliament and the nation, a statement on the whole of the information in the hands of the Government relating to the Bosnian raid and the execution of these citizens so that the whole matter may then be displayed for the information of Australia and this chamber? 
 The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the motion for the reference of the matter of Thailand to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. We do so with enthusiasm because we realise the critical position occupied by Thailand in the whole South East Asian situation. About 18 months or 2 years ago I had the opportunity of visiting a number of countries in South East Asia, including Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia, and I was in Thailand for a short period. The one concern of the first 3 nations I mentioned was that there is a definite communist threat from the north. That penetration is occurring down through Vietnam and Cambodia. If it breaks into Thailand and through Thailand then immediately it is on the Malaysian border. Already there is insurgency on the Malaysian border - and there has been for years - with Chin Peng operating with his guerrilla band on that frontier. The concern of Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia is that if communism breaks through there, then it will break through to Malaysia, then to Singapore and then to Indonesia. Let us recall that we have only one land frontier - that is with West Irian which is part of Indonesia. Those countries are all vulnerable, and they are vulnerable for different reasons. Malaysia is vulnerable because there is in that country, and has been for years by virtue of its ethnic composition, a Chinese-Malay confrontation which in 1969 resulted in the massacre of 1,000 or more Chinese at the hands of the 
Malays. The Malays have a certain political superiority, the Chinese have commercial superiority, and that is one cause of the confrontation. 
There is similarly a vulnerability in Singapore and, because of its size and economic situation there is a vulnerability in Indonesia which in 1965 barely staved off an attempted communist coup which would have converted that country into a communist society. Those countries know they are vulnerable. The linchpin of their defence in a sense rests upon the integrity of Thailand, and if Thailand is broken through and into, these countries become vulnerable. Indonesia becomes a victim of the southward aggression and then we would have a communist society with a land frontier with Australia. 
I know it is cynically said: 'Does Australia expect 12 million Chinese to come down in junks and invade this country?' Of course, that question answers itself: we do not expect this. But is that the only way in which an assault of some character could be launched on this country? I ask this question: At what point of time since World War II did the world stand closest to international war? I think the answer could well be that it was when the Soviet Union had obtained land accommodation in Cuba, within the area of the United States, and set out to mount missile landing weapons on that piece of territory. At that stage there probably was not one Soviet soldier within 5,000 miles of the United States, but the position was so critical that America had to go to the brink of war and deploy her fleet in the face of the advancing Russian missile carrying ships. In other words, all that was necessary to bring the United States to that parlous condition was that some power not friendly to her had managed to establish land accommodation in a strategic position which rendered the United States geographically vulnerable. That is the type of thing which I personally am afraid of in relation to the downward thrust in South East Asia: the possibility of a Cuban type enclave. That is why the integrity of that region, apart from the integrity in the right of its own people, is so strategically important to Australia, and therefore the integrity of Thailand, which I call the linchpin of the southern axis, becomes of increasing importance. 
For those reasons I welcome the reference put down by  Senator Carrick.  I hope it will be accepted by the Senate and that we shall get a total examination of the significance of Thailand to South East Asia and to the security of this country. 
The bringing on of this motion for the appointment of the House. Committee has taken me a little by surprise. May I inquire from you,  Mr Deputy President,  or from the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  who is at the table, what is the present representation on the House Committee? 
For a long time, the Australian Democratic Labour Party found no representation on the Senate Standing Orders Committee. I just forget what is the present situation. It has not found representation on the House Committee. The House Committee is entrusted with the general disposition of the functioning of the House in its many aspects and activities. It seems to be a most inappropriate situation that a Party is not represented on this Committee. There can be no politics in this whatsoever. It is a matter of smooth, efficient and convenient functioning and the utilisation of the facilities of the House. I think that it would be an excellent idea if a representative of the Australian Democratic Labor Party could be included in this Committee. 
That is true. Of course^ there may be a Country Party member from another place on the Committee. The House Committee is a joint committee, is it not? 
The one to which we are now directing our attention is- 
When our Senate Committee meets with the House of Representatives Committee - a similar committee - I have no doubt that on the House of Representatives Committee there will be representatives of the Country Party. At least in the functioning of the amalgamated committee there will be a representative of the Country Party. That would not assist members of the Democratic Labor Party who have no members in another place. It would seem to me that the Senate should contemplate increasing the size of the membership of this Committee. The appointment of an additional  Senator, thus  expanding the membership of the Committee by one, if it is possible to do that, would accommodate the appointment of a representative of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. That action may not be possible in the light of the consolidation of the 2 Committees. Perhaps the numbers are limited. It may be that the number of senators that we can appoint to the Joint Committee is limited in relation to the strength of House of Representatives representation. Therefore, it may not be simply a matter of adding another senator by our action here. I should be pleased if the Special Minister of State, who is at the table, will inform me whether that is the position or whether a place may be made available for another senator on this Committee. If so, could I suggest that a representative of my Party be appointed to the House Committee? After the honourable senator has indicated that, I may be able to make another speech, by leave of the Senate. 
 Mr President,  I direct a question to yourself. Yesterday we had occasion in this place sadly to mark the passing of a very great Australian,   Sir Arthur  Fadden. Appropriate tributes were paid to the deceased former member of the House of Representatives, and honourable senators signified their concern and sorrow by standing in their places. It appeared to me that such a tribute in itself was inadequate for one who was in. his time the first elected. citizen of this country, and I think that that, is a position of such stature that his passing should be marked more .appropriately. I ask,  Mr President,  whether you would consider referring to the Standing Orders Committee the suggestion that a protocol might be developed by which significance, should be given to these occasions, particularly in the case of a former Prime Minister of the Commonwealth, by perhaps the Senate adjourning if only for an hour so that the occasion could appropriately be marked. 
The arrangement between the Whips usually has worked quite satisfactorily. It is regrettable that in this case consultation did not take place in the circumstances pointed out by  Senator Young.  One of the matters to be translated tonight is a motion standing in the name of  Senator Kane  of the Democratic Labor Party. It is our motion. I did not expect that motion to be brought on for debate tonight. I do not think  Senator Kane  was aware of it; I certainly was not. Generally speaking, the co-operation between the Whips has been close and efficient. I hope that that situation will continue. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party, perhaps because it is a Party that is particularly and almost exclusively identified with the Senate at this stage, sees a trespass on the traditional rights of the Senate in this field. Therefore, we object to and resent the message received from the House of Representatives and the proposition of the Government that the chairmanship of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory should rest in the hands of a member of the House of Representatives. It has been in the hands of a member of the Senate. We see no reason to disturb the position. Personally, 1 have been quite disturbed in more recent days by references - I do not canvass the merits or demerits of them now - made in the other place to this chamber. The Senate has been described in completely uncomplimentary terms. The formal actions taken in this place have been lightly brushed aside as being of no consequence. That is a situation that the Senate cannot afford to accept and by which it should not be required to abide. 
I understand that on this matter the Opposition, while not approving of the proposition, is not prepared in a formal sense to dissent from it. The Democratic Labor Party dissents from it. We may not do this in a formal sense if the Opposition is accepting the proposition, though with reluctance. No doubt the proposition will be accepted on the voices. Our voices will be registered in the negative, although we shall not pursue the matter to a division. But I think that the Senate in its new-found significance in the democratic parliamentary society of Australia and with the public interest and attention that has been focussed on it should not be prepared to surrender authorities and powers now resting within it. 
 I am objecting to the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory being drawn from the House of Representatives.  Senator Marriott  was the  Chairman  of the Committee. Perhaps the Senate can look at the whole Canberra position in a slightly more impartial and disinterested way than can a Committee constituted by members of another place in which representation of the Australian Capital Territory rests. I know that a proposal has been advanced to give the Australian Capital Territory senatorial representation. Perhaps the position can be met then when that happens. However, I should imagine that any honourable senator or honourable senators who represented the Australian Capital Territory would stand with  Senator Marriott  in his disposition to this proposition. Without unduly prolonging the Senate, I indicate on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party its resistance to this proposition, which resistance we shall take to the point of voting against it on the voices. 
I speak on this motion as a senator from Queensland and as one who, in a strange way, is involved in and particularly interested in the outcome of this debate. It is a great distance from Cairns to Tasmania. But there is a very strong link in this matter between that remote part of Australia from Canberra - Cairns - and the southern part of that island of Tasmania. That is because the ship which is now under discussion was constructed by North Queensland Engineers and Agents Pty Ltd, a comparatively small engineering company in Cairns. I must make my position quite clear. I am not speaking, as it were, for an unsecured creditor. But I speak to indicate that this company, which is a small company, is still owed a very considerable sum in relation to the building of this ship. The loss of that money would prove a very great burden and setback to the operations of this small North Queensland company. 
No. It is just a question of taking a broad national outlook on this matter and realising that this is not only, as naturally the Tasmanians conceive it primarily, a contract between the operator of this service, the Tasmanian Government which is interested in supplying the ship, the people of King Island who want the service and the people of the State of Tasmania generally, but also it is a matter that in the way I have described involves a part of Australia remote from Tasmania. It involves to some extent, if not the future at least the welfare of a comparatively small yet significant operating secondary industry in Cairns. As is known, in the main Cairns is the centre of a sugar-producing area with some back country, the Atherton Tableland and Mareeba where butter and corn are produced. In the main, it is a primary producing area. But we know that, from the point of view of distribution of population, mere reliance on primary industry is not necessarily the answer. In a process of decentralisation, the necessity to build up decentralised secondary industries is of vital national importance. 
This comparatively small engineering company, with great courage, considerable efficiency and not inconsiderable success, has established itself in Cairns and has already constructed many vessels of small tonnage. It is making a significant contribution not only to the production of surface craft but also to the economic viability of Cairns and district. Honourable senators will remember well the rather recent establishment of the naval patrol out of Cairns. The presence of this company with a comparatively large and modern slipway, means that work on seagoing vessels can be done at this port. This is a matter in which the nation, in the broader sense, is involved. 
What happens to the 'Straitsman' in Tasmania will have repercussions nationally in relation to our defence, geographically in relation to Cairns and district and economically in relation to both. Therefore, I put this forward with considerable concern as a Queensland senator who has been through these engineering works, who has spoken to the operatives, who knows the people employed in them, who knows how important it is that their volume of work should be maintained and who knows the dedication of the men who have built the industry and the very low labour turnover in the enterprise concerned. This is because  Mr Fry,  his family and the executives who now sit with him are excellent employers. I know how important it is to Cairns and district and to Australia that this small enterprise should be maintained. 
If the denial of this money to this engineering works does not prove to be a disaster to it, at least it will be a considerable setback. Therefore, it is a matter in which the Commonwealth should try to take the broad outlook, quite apart from the questions of King Island, the 'Straitsman' or the other party to the contract and quite apart from the Tasmanian Government. As a Queensland senator, I am now asking the Minister and the Government to consider the wider implications of this matter in relation to defence, to the efficient operation of a Naval establishment that the Government put in the area and in relation to the maintenance of this small but vital, relevant and significant secondary industry in the northern part of Australia. It might be said that an enterprise of this kind in this part of the country is unique. Possibly there would be no other industry of this magnitude doing this type of work as remote from the populous urban areas of the central and southern coast of Australia as North Queensland Engineers and Agents Pty Ltd. 
For those reasons, I appeal to the Government to try to accept a point of view far beyond the mere situation as it exists - vital as it is to Tasmania, King Island and the parties to the contract - to try to take an even broader outlook on the matter and to come to the aid of this ship and consequently indirectly and vicariously to help the north Queensland industry. As a Queenslander, I am interested in maintaining these works and I have had occasion to wait on the former Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Nixon,  with deputations and to discuss this matter with him. Therefore, I am not unfamiliar with the background and circumstances of this whole matter. I do not, however, pose as an expert on it. I could not go into the intricacies of the contract, the relevant undertakings given on either side, the viability of the enterprise or the suitability of the ship. I do not propose to dogmatise on any of those matters. But the views of those who have gone into the matter and the submissions of those who are involved in it seem to support the proposition that the ship is adequate and relevant for the purpose and suitable for the type of cargo that would be lifted and that its continued provision of services to King Island is of absolutely vital concern to that Island. 
The economics of it also are disputed. I know that there could be 2 schools of thought on this. Therefore, as there is dispute and as there are these other remote considerations that can be taken into account, it is only appropriate that before this, in a sense, death blow is given to this enterprise and the consequences flow from it there should be an inquiry into the whole situation. Surely that is not too much to ask. After all. the Minister would be relying on advice given to him in good faith and no doubt with considerable skill and dedication. But there are other points of view which could be properly presented and closely examined; and when view confronts view it may well be that another conclusion may be reached or at least another solution may be discovered. 
No, I do not say that. However, I do say this: I am putting this before the Minister in an attempt to persuade him that, when he comes to consider whether this matter should receive investigation, the consequences of it in that remote part should not be discounted or laid aside as of no concern at all. I agree that it would not be the absolute ratio of the inquiry and that what happens to the Cairns engineering works could not determine the outcome of this matter in isolation. But, when the Minister comes to consider the matter, the consequences there could well be borne in mind. As in most matters of governmental administration, the decisions are not clear cut. 
For example, when a State government comes to consider the economic viability of railways, it is always confronted with very heavy railway losses, but on the other side it balances the economic contribution that the railways are making to its State. In other words, it takes the broad view. It does not look merely at the bookkeeping of the system; it looks at the bookkeeping of the national accounts and national welfare. That is why I am putting this consideration before the Minister as an additional one. If any way. out of this situation, apart from the complete negative to the proposition, can be discovered then let a consideration such as the one I am now presenting be the grain that goes into the scales and tips the Minister's solicitude in this direction. That is at the least what I am asking for. Knowing the Minister and knowing the objective manner in which he so often approaches matters, I think he will agree that this is a relevant and important consideration. 
 Mr President,  this is the States House. The committee to which it is proposed to refer this matter is a committee of the States House. This is a matter that involves enterprises in 2 States and it is particularly appropriate' that it should come before such a committee. That is another reason why the Minister, acting with prudence, caution and understanding, should be prepared to let this matter go to this committee. 
I can see no reason why the Minister should discount such a suggestion. I can see less reason why he should totally and implacably oppose it. Therefore, I suggest that the sweet reasonableness of the suggestion, the sensitivity of the whole situation and the consequences that can flow if the matter is handled as it is now proposed to handle it are considerations that should persuade the Minister, even at this late hour, that the whole situation might be retrieved and a formula or solution might be found which will satisfy the people of King Island and the economics of the situation and also ensure a continuation of this contribution to the viability of a north Queensland industry. Therefore, I urge the Minister, not in any party political sense - nothing of that character at all - to take this as the final avenue to be explored. While it remains unexplored, the Minister cannot consider that every possible implication of this matter has been looked at, every consequence examined and every alternative solution exa mined and discarded. Until this- examination takes place, 1 do not think the Minister would be entitled. to reach such a conclusion. 
 Therefore, I commend to the Minister the proposition which has been put1 forward. Even if no solution is found by this' committee, at least all of us will be satisfied that, to the best of the common ability of- the Government, the honourable senators who represent the States concerned, the parties, to . the contract and the people of King Island, -no avenue has been left unexplored, and that everything has been done to try to find ,a solution which would be acceptable and proper to all concerned. For those reasons, I appeal to the Minister to be prepared to accept the motion propounded from Tasmania. 
1  take the opportunity to say what I might have said in the second reading debate on the Bill. I do not wish to transgress by making a second reading speech- 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has great pleasure in supporting the States Grants (Water Resources Measurement) Bill 1973 and the continuation of the program that is envisaged by the financial aid that is being made available by the Commonwealth. The formula applied envisages the States undertaking expenditure on water resource investigation up to a base amount. The amount by which expenditure exceeds that base amount will be matched by the Commonwealth until expenditure is double the base amount. Thereafter the Commonwealth aid will be on a dollar for dollar basis until the ceiling set out in the schedule is reached. 
In the course of the investigations conducted by the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, we discovered that one of the great problems facing Australia in the conservation of water resources, apart from the establishment of the quantum of those resources, was the difficulty involved when rivers flowed from State to State. Constitutional difficulties would necessarily arise in an attempt to discipline and control the pollution of such streams. Of course, the same problem could well arise in a matter such as this. That is why the concurrence of the relevant States in the establishment of water resources and their definition is of particular importance. It is the only practical way, as  Senator Cotton  said, within the concept of co-operative federalism to handle this problem. 
Of course, Australia has been described as a dry continent and the provision of water is of tremendous value. Its proper adequate - and even its conservative - use can be of great significance to the nation. We know that other nations are finding it necessary to discover water resources or to desalinate sea water for the provision of irrigation in dry areas. This is particularly the case in Israel. 
At some stage, Australia could well be faced with such a situation. It would not be beyond the technical resources or the technology of this nation to apply the methods of desalination which have been applied elsewhere. But they may not be necessary if we are astute and wise enough to develop, establish and conserve our natural water resources. Therefore, the continued provision by the Commonwealth of grants in aid to the States to establish water resources and conserve them is of immense significance and importance. I merely comment on the level of aid. It is stated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  that the level of aid represents an increase of almost 85 per cent over the level of Commonwealth aid in the past 3 years and almost a sixfold increase in the assistance when compared with the first 3-year program. In making this increased contribution, the Commonwealth is confident that the States will increase their own commitments. I think that that is an extremely wise principle because ultimately it is the States that have the ultimate physical responsibility for the establishment of water resources and their diversion to proper economic usage. The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill and commends its provisions which we hope will be an additional incentive to the States to continue and to expand their investigations and to move much more rapidly, effectively and enthusiastically with the Commonwealth in the field of the conservation of water resources. 
We hope, therefore, that the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution will be taken up by the States jointly with the Commonwealth and implemented. Today I had the pleasure of the company of the newly appointed Director of Environment in Queensland on the flight from Brisbane. He said that many States have already adopted many of the recommendations and provisions of the Committee's report. That is most comforting. The major recommendation, perhaps, is the overall approach to water resources in respect of which we hope for maximum co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States. We hope also that this type of legislation will stimulate, encourage and give effect to such enthusiasm and co-operation. We support the Bill. 
If  Senator Cavanagh  got the call and he is prepared to yield to me, I would be happy to accept the yield. 
I appreciate that from the honourable senator. I think that  Senator Withers  has conclusively and with great finality answered the argument that the interruption of the procedures of the business of this chamber by this motion will gravely impede the processing of legislation. I think that that argument has been so conclusively answered that it requires no further comment. 
I am interested to present to the Senate - and I think it should be presented - the justification for the action which has been taken by  Senator Gair  at the instance of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. The matters contained in notice of motion No. 10 deal fundamentally with the question of civil rights of a major section of our community. These people are now Australian citizens who have come from other countries, from Europe - and their names are mentioned. 
They include Croats, Serbs, Montenegrans and others. 
We have mentioned  a  number of migrant groups who are gravely concerned about their position in this community because of the possible trespass on their civil rights. Any suggestion that this is only  a  witch hunt after the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  is discounted by the terms of the motion which obviously is directed at protecting 
 Mr Deputy President.  I accept the intervention of  Senator Cavanagh.  I was merely illustrating that this is a civil rights matter. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  Senator Cavanagh's  point of order is related to one which was taken earlier. I think that all speakers in this debate should try to relate their remarks very directly to the motion, which is that intervening business be postponed until after the consideration of notice of motion No. 10. I trust that you will do that,  Senator Byrne. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  That is what I had intended to do. I accept  Senator Cavanagh's  intervention. The point I make is that the question of civil rights is an extremely important one. It has always loomed large in the considerations and in the public utterances of the AttorneyGeneral and of  Senator Cavanagh  and of many honourable senators who sit behind them. In this place and outside of it they have always been protesting about the importance of the adequate and proper protection of civil rights under the law. That being so, obviously this is a matter which is to them, as it is to us and as it should be to all Australians, a matter of very great urgency. If there is some suggestion that civil rights have been impugned, attacked or assaulted, then civil rights must be protected. Our justification for putting aside all other business in order to enable this motion to come forward is on that basis, that it is important that as early as possible an investigation should be held to ascertain whether civil rights have been trespassed upon, to what extent they should be protected and the methods that should be adopted to achieve that protection. That is the basis of the urgency which we attach to this motion which we say justifies the laying aside of other business to enable notice of motion No. 10 to be debated. In fairness, I think that honourable senators who have protested about the question of civil rights would not deny the validity of that proposition. Therefore, I present it to this chamber with very great confidence that at least that proposition will be accepted. 

 Senator Gair in the early stages of this debate said that he was accommodating an early presentation of this motion to the convenience of  Senator Murphy  who finds himself faced with important business of an international character concerning Australia before the International Court of Justice at The Hague. That intervention by  Senator Murphy  at The Hague, I suppose in  Senator Murphy's  connotation, is essentially a question of civil rights. At least, that is  Senator Murphy's  connotation. It is a question of civil rights- 
1 am merely taking  Senator Murphy's  mental attitude. That is  Senator Murphy's  assessment of the trespass upon the individual rights of Australians and of the people in the Pacific community. That is his presentation and his proposition. We say that here is another case, an immediate case, where we allege that civil rights have been trespassed upon. Civil rights must be declared, they must be defined and they must be protected. Therefore, I would have expected that contrary to  Senator Murphy  opposing our proposition, he would have been the first to say: 'Of course, I am going over to The Hague on this very question of theassertion and protection of civil rights. They are being attacked in Australia, and I will be the first to see that there is an early investigation to ensure that civil rights are protected and defined.' 
Every day is important; every -day is urgent. These inquiries do not get under way at a moment's notice; they take time. That, I would say, is the proposition which we thought would have found acceptance and enthusiastic support in honourable senators who sit behind the AttorneyGeneral. 
What has been the position in Australia? We have had migrant communities claiming that their rights have been attacked. They have lodged affidavits which have been tabled in this chamber. Today these people are living in a condition of fear lest the knock on the door come again. There is in their minds a tremendous urgency about this matter which justifies protection by their parliamentary representatives at the first possible opportunity. If we were to lay aside this investigation for a day longer than is necessary - much less a week or a fortnight - we would be recreant to the trust that these people have placed in us. They have come to Australia from societies which are autocratic in nature and context - societies of which terror has been a part. 
These communities have come here because we were a free democratic country. They have looked for the very things that we want to give them - the protection of the law and immunity from trespass by people who unlawfully try to interfere with their freedom, their liberty, their privacy and their person. If this Parliament falls down in this context, it would be a grave blow to the confidence of these people who have reposed their whole lives and futures in the very democratic processes which we now want to operate on their behalf. 

 Senator Murphy rightly claims that he is going to The Hague on a matter of state. We all concede that. It is a most important matter to which  Senator Murphy  gives particular significance. But the question which we want to discuss is a matter of state. It is the matter of the protection of Australian citizens in this country, lt is as vital as. if not more vital than, the protection of Australian citizens from atomic fallout or anything else. This is the protection of Australian citizens from trespass by their own people in this country at the instance of forces which cannot be accepted, much less tolerated in Australia. 
As  Senator Murphy  has said, he expects to be away for 10 days. We know the processes of this Parliament. If this motion is carried, the committee would be established while  Senator Murphy  was here. Notice of motion No. 10 refers to the type and composition of the committee. We know that in the ordinary processes of formally setting up the committee, a great deal of time would be taken in creating the administrative structure before any steps were taken which would go to the heart of the matter. Therefore, if  Senator Murphy  is to be away for 10 days only his absence cannot in any way be prejudicial to any part that he may wish to play in the operation of this committee or in the presentation of any evidence or propositions that he would wish on his behalf to be submitted to, or personally to place before, those conducting the inquiry. So, I cannot see that there could be any prejudice whatsoever in the appointment of this committee immediately and nominating members to it forthwith so that work can commence on setting up the administrative structure necessary for its operation. This can be done prior to the return to Australia of  Senator Murphy  following his presentation of Australia's case to the International Court of Justice.. 

 Senator Murphy said , if he did not, it was said on his behalf , that the matter to be referred to the committee is complex and covers a large area and that it will take time to assemble the material and to master all the facts. No matter has been more thoroughly canvassed than this topic and no more detailed brief has been presented in this place than the documents tabled and the ministerial statement delivered on the existence of the Croatian movement in Australia. The information which was collected by the AttorneyGeneral was massive and detailed. I would imagine that  Senator Murphy  already would be in possession, without further study, of all the information that he or his Department would require for any presentation which might be made before this committee. Therefore, I cannot see that his absence from Australia for 10 days would impede in any way or render unfair or unjust the establishment and the early operation of this committee in that period. 
This is a matter of civil rights. Urgency  is  associated with those civil rights. The Senate has an obligation to a tremendous number of people - perhaps one million Australians - who feel that their rights are being impeded. According to affidavits, some of them are going in terror. Surely the proposition must appeal to everybody in this chamber that this Parliament above all institutions or authorities should move as quickly as possible to assert the rights of those people, to defend them and, where those rights are uncertain, to define them. 1 would imagine that in relation to any investigation of civil rights we would have received the enthusiastic, immediate and unanimous support of all members of this Senate. I am gravely concerned to find that that support "jas not been forthcoming. The only reference proposed in this inquiry to ASIO concerns the circumstances surrounding and relevant to the Attorney-General's actions in March 1973 and that goes to whether a case was available on which to base those actions. 
I will not pursue that line. I mentioned that only to indicate what significance this matter would play in the inquiry. If  Senator Cavanagh  does not wish to hear the degree of emphasis I give to it, that is a matter for him. The Australian Democratic Labor Party makes no apology for sponsoring this motion. The matter has already been adequately canvassed in this debate.  Senator Murphy  has put his case completely and as he wanted to put it to the chamber. Speakers have been heard from both sides of the House. The issues are clear and have been defined. It is, I believe, the opinion of the Senate that a committee should be established in the form and with the terms of reference which have been proposed. For those reasons, I move: 
That the question be now put.  (Honourable senators interjecting)- 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Prowse)  - Order! There can be no debate on this motion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Cavanagh,  please resume your- seat. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave  is  granted. 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South Australia - Minister for Works) - 1 wish to say only that ] yielded to 2 honourable senators, despite the fact that I had the call and the opportunity was available to me to speak.  Senator Byrne  expressed appreciation of the fact that 1 yielded to him. 1 yielded to the honourable senator and he made statements to which 1 think 1 should reply. But having given him the opportunity to speak, 1 find that  Senator Byrne  seeks to use the numbers supporting him for the purpose of abusing my generosity and so that I- cannot speak in the debate. 
 I ask for leave to make a statement. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The Chair has a request from  Senator Mulvihill. 
 Perhaps what .1 wish to say may anticipate what  Senator Mulvihill  wishes to say. In those circumstances, will you allow me to speak? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I called  Senator Mulvihill  who sought leave to make a statement. Leave will, be granted to you,  Senator Mulvihill,  I take it- 
 May I- 
Government senators  -  Sit down! 
 I was indicating to  Senator Mulvihill- 
 I am indicating to  Senator Mulvihill- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! No question as to leave has been put.  Senator Mulvihill  rose to seek leave. In the circumstances, I cannot see  Senator Byrne.  I call  Senator Mulvihill. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Mulvihill,  are you seeking leave to make a statement? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I direct my question to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister seen the suggestion made by the Prime Minister of Singapore,  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew, that there should be created a joint naval force by Singapore, Malaysia, New Zealand and Australia, in view of the expanding naval presence of the Soviet Union in the South-East Pacific and Indian Oceans? Can the Minister indicate whether the Government will take any initiative to further the implementation of the proposal? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Acute concern is developing following the announcement by the Government that the development and resiting of Brisbane airport may not be accomplished before 1980. The Minister will be aware of the new policies of the domestic airlines in introducing economy fares, and the existence of the curfew on aircraft operations at Brisbane airport. A problem will arise in accommodating the increased air traffic within the curfew time and it may be necessary to extend it. In the light of all those circumstances, can the Minister tell us anything encouraging about the earlier resiting and completion of the Brisbane airport? 
 On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party I indicate that although the burdens of sitting will be extremely heavy and as the legislation which is to be considered is extremely important, one would hope that the demands of time do not make the proper consideration of it even with the extended hours, unsatisfactory. The items of legislation are important. They represent changes of policy in the hands of a new government which necessarily will require examination and would receive comment, criticism and opposition. Towards the end of long sitting periods one could expect some exacerbation of situations which I trust will not eventuate. I issue the mildest of rebukes to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Willesee).  These proposals were distributed  -  I acknowledge that to  Senator Willesee  - but there was no actual personal' consultation, I understand, between  Senator Willesee  and  Senator Gair  and, I think, with  Senator Drake-Brockman,  as there was with  Senator Withers.  I am subject to correction if I am wrong. I know that  Senator Willesee  would be the first to concur with me when I say that very often situations can be overcome by close consultation prior to the matter being brought into this chamber. 
I think,  Mr President,  that we should not be healing the iteration and reiteration of allegations that the Opposition is holding up legislation. One of the matters to which the present Government has pointed with some pride is that it has moved very quickly, much more quickly than previous governments had done in a comparable period of time. Those movements have been made not only legislatively but also administratively. But once a government crowds in or claims it has crowded into a few brief months what might have been done over an expanded period, one must expect that many more . matters of a general non-legislative character would be coming before this chamber for analysis and criticism. 
As we know, certain actions have been taken which we might describe as administrative and these have precipitated the attention and the criticism of the Opposition. A government which wants to do so much of an administrative character must, expect that. Therefore it does not appear - logical that, those things having been done and having attracted discussion and opposition, those who have a duty to ventilate their opposition and to express their criticism should be in any way criticised and told that the result has been an impediment to legislation. As  Senator Withers  said, there has been no substantial impediment to legislation, if any at all. The major Bills which are still to pass through this chamber have not, as yet been impeded by any other matters. A great deal of legislation has already proceeded through this chamber. ' For the reasons I have suggested and because of the sheer physical burden and the possibility that as a result honourable senators will not be able to give that alert attention which is customarily given in this place by so many we do not welcome additional hours. I hope that the suggested new hours will operate. I assure the Government that this motion will attract .the complete support and co-operation of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  Unfortunately it is quite common knowledge within the Commonwealth that the Australian Federation is undergoing very severe strains and stresses. So severe and so dramatic have those stresses been, and into so many areas do they intrude, that the States have called for a constitutional convention to take a completely new look at the Constitution to see whether some more equitable and more effective distribution of constitutional power cannot be achieved. It would appear that when such a convention is pending and when the steering committees already are operating, little should be done to intrude further on the already difficult situation by exacerbating the position by passing this legislation. If this convention is to be held with the maximum goodwill and if it is to achieve a proper constitutional reconciliation and a proper constitutional division of powers, that can only be accomplished in an atmosphere of mutual goodwill. For the Commonwealth to intrude particularly at this stage with this draconic legislation certainly would have the effect of militating against a successful conclusion to that convention. 
Whatever might be our views about this Bill it would be commonly accepted that the preservation of Australia as a viable nation and of the Australian Federation as the means by which the nation operates effectively ai all levels, is something which would be the common purpose of us all. We of the Democratic Labor Party are approaching it on that basis but there are different points of view. 
As  Senator Wheeldon  said, there are different points of view within the Australian Labor Party itself. While  Senator Wheeldon  pointed to the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  delivered before the last election as granting him a mandate from the Australian people, it must also be said that there are major sections within the Australian Labor Party and the leaders of the State Parties in a number of States who really do not accept that as a decision of the people, and apparently they do not accept it as the policy of the Party. 
 I am not making any political comment on that. I merely am saying that that indicates that there are these stresses and strains within the community and even within a political party as to what should be the correct and proper outcome of this matter. Therefore the suggestion propounded by  Senator Withers  for a last effort, even though it is a last desperate effort, to be made in co-operation with the States and in the concept of co-operative federalism to achieve some modus operandi which can do equity between the components of the Federation, without creating any further stresses and strains such as those already disrupting the Federation, seems most appropriate at this stage. 
I was interested in  Senator Cant's  observations about the advisory opinion sought before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. The High Court of Australia is not in a position to make declaratory judgments and the States have taken this matter to the Privy Council for an advisory or declaratory opinion. I take it that that reference would go to the Privy Council sitting, as we might say, in banco; that is, to the general Privy Council. 
 It can make declaratory judgments on a case brought but it cannot be asked for an advisory opinion judgment. That is the sense in which I use the term declaratory judgment. Therefore I would say that this reference would go to the Privy Council in banco - that is to the general Privy Council - and it no doubt in turn would refer it to a board of the Privy Council, as it is called, being the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council constituted as a board for that purpose.  Senator Cant  said that what could then happen is that if that advisory opinion is given and legislation is enacted in terms of it or in defiance of it a case could be brought in the High Court of Australia as a litigation at law. It occurs to me that somebody may consider that the Privy Council in banco, instead of referring the matter to a judicial committee comprised of distinguished legal members of the Privy Council in Great Britain, might well refer it to a board of the Privy Council constituted by the judges of the High Court of Australia, all of whom are Privy Councillors. So in fact this opinion would then be given by those who constitute the High Court of Australia. In effect it would be an advisory opinion. 
 Senator Cant  pointed out that if an advisory opinion were given by the Privy Council it may be only a prelude to litigation subsequently brought before the High Court of Australia. I think that that was the honourable senator's point, was it not? 
 Therefore I am suggesting that this may be a device which would enable the matter initially to come before the High Court of Australia, the judges of it not sitting as a High Court but sitting as a constituted Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. The distinguished members of the High Court could constitute that board. That is something which Her Majesty the Queen- 
 I know that that is the point the honourable senator was making. I appreciate that matter. I am answering  Senator Georges  who points out that that is a long way around. The point made by  Senator Cant  is that the other way would be a longer way around. I think that is his point. I just mention something that occurs to me. In that case we would have a decision made by the High Court of Australia, the members of which would be sitting as a Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. Then there would really be no point in bringing the matter again before the High Court because the judges who had sat on the Privy Council would constitute the High Court. In effect that would be a final decision. That is only something that has gone through my mind. It might be a practical resolution to this problem. Whether the States would desire it is a matter for them. 
I am concerned at the reference made to Part III of the Act which refers to the exploitation of the mineral resources of the continental shelf. Traditionally the exploitation of mineral resources has been a matter within State sovereignty. This Bill appears to me to be a surreptitious mode of arrogating power to the Commonwealth over an area which traditionally, constitutionally and conventionally has been considered to be within the exclusive jurisdiction of the States - quite apart from Federal territories. For those reasons, without unduly prolonging the debate because this is a procedural motion, the Democratic Labor Party believes that the amendment moved by  Senator Withers  has a great deal to commend it. It might be a last desperate effort to operate within the concept of cooperative federalism. The States obviously are so alerted to the position and so concerned about it that they are taking it to  Her  Majesty in Council in England. There already are stresses and strains within the Federation and we should lose no opportunity to try, in the interests of the Australian Nation, to put salve onto the wounds which have opened up in Australia. For those reasons I think a delay of 3 months would not be untoward.  Senator Cant  said that it may be even a few months longer because we will be coming into the Budget session. Room definitely could be found in that session to look at this matter, despite the Budget commitments. I think that that is so important and the contribution that it would make to the functioning of Australian Federalism is so great that a delay or a procrastination of 3 months would not be undue at all. For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party supports the amendment. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the measure.  1  do not propose to speak to it at any length. There are one or two minor matters to which I shall refer. Papua New Guinea is a nation which is emerging towards not only political independence but also, to a large measure, economic and social independence. This measure will provide ongoing finance to Papua New Guinea in its present state and the contractual implications will continue with the new Papua New Guinea in its independent situation. I would be obliged if the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  would indicate what the position will be when the contract is held by a new nation with a new political relationship to Australia. I think that aspect will be of some significance. Also I would be interested to know what will be the future policy of Australia in relation to further finance being made available to the independent nation of Papua New Guinea. I would like to know whether this Bill is to be the first of a series of ongoing financial provisions of a particular kind so that Australia may persist in its solicitude for Papua New Guinea, or whether it will be the last provision of this character to be made available, after which Papua New Guinea will be internationally a nation that can go on to the world market and secure its own loans. I would like to know whether it is proposed that in some way Australia will underwrite, support or fortify the borrowing capacity of the new nation. 
When 1 speak of Papua New Guinea having political, financial and economic independence I do so in a theoretical sense. Obviously the nation still will require tremendous financial support. I would like to know whether Australia will consider that the new nation is to be completely on its own, pursuing its own destiny and negotiating its own international currency and financial relationships. Will Australia still act in some condition of patrimony towards Papua New Guinea? Those matters are important. It is important for Papua New Guinea to know the answers to those questions and for this Parliament to know them. For that reason I would be obliged if the Minister, in his reply, will indicate what is to be the future financial relationship between the emerging nation of Papua New Guinea and Australia. The DLP approves thoroughly of this Bill and trusts that the amount of money which is to be provided will assist greatly in the development of an area which is so close to Australia geographically, which is so close to our hearts and whose future will always continue to be very close to our destiny and warrant the care and solicitude of the Australian nation. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill. I personally support it wilh great enthusiasm. I always Iia ve strongly resented this differentiation in the status of people in the community. My mind goes back to the situation during the war when there was that strange designation of naturalised aliens of enemy origin. Whatever may have been necessary in furtherance of our defence when Australia was engaged in war, particularly in this area, nevertheless it put naturalised Australians in a very peculiar category. As a result they were subject to internment and things of that character. Going back as far as that and even beyond, I always have thought that the paramountcy of the certificate of naturalisation conferring citizenship should be acknowledged at all times and in all circumstances. It is rather like the paramountcy of the certificate of title under the Torrens system of land registration. Once that certificate is issued all other things are laid aside and from then on the certificate of tide is the title, to the land. All other mortgages and charges are laid aside at that stage and you read the certificate from then on as indicating the ownership and title to the land. I have always thought that citizenship should be in that category. 
These provisions in the Crimes Act have persisted for too long. People came out here accepting Australian ctizenship but in particular circumstances they have been subject to this discrimination and to being deported to the land from which they came, often going to a fate that was worse than any we might have administered to them. That is something I have always resented and I really welcome the presentation of this repealing legislation. It is interesting that in more recent days and rather more dramatic circumstances the Senate has adverted to the citizenship of new Australians in relation to what we will call the 'Croatian situation'. The Senate Select Committee which has been constituted to look at the whole matter has before it as one of its terms of reference: 
The problems and perils created for members of the Australian migrant community by the concept of dual nationality and appropriate measures which may be taken to eliminate them. 
In other words, we adverted to the fact  that  although migrants may obtain Australian citizenship, if they have come from certain countries they still retain the nationality and citizenship of that country. They face all the risks, vulnerability and dangers that are attendant upon defiance or breach of the law of that country from which they came. The Senate has indicated that it is particularly concerned and remains concerned about the existence of dual nationality. Tonight we are expressing our concern about another area of citizenship. It is interesting to recall that it is only in more recent years that the status of Australian citizenship has received recognition. Only a few years ago we were of British nationality. Australian citizenship has come in the recent lifetime of most honourable senators. That is in the past but circumstances involving dual nationality are still under dis cussion, as is discrimination regarding deportation which is being eliminated by this measure. 
I do not wish to take up any more time of the Senate. The Senate is enthusiastically supporting the Bill for many reasons, some of which have been advanced by honourable senators who have spoken on matters which lie very close to the hearts of every honourable senator and every member of the Parliament. I welcome the presentation of the legislation which I and my Party are pleased to accord a quick passage through this chamber. 
The. Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the measure and notes the tremendous significance of the ratification of these 3 agreements with our nextdoor neighbour Indonesia, which is the only nation in the world with whom we have a land frontier. The relations between this country and Indonesia are of prime importance both to that country and to Australia. That the relationship should be commenced amicably and should continue in that way should be to the mutual advantage of both great nations. Honourable senators who come from Queensland are, of course, always concerned about the boundaries of the State of Queensland. This question came up recently, and  Senator Lawrie  also adverted to it, in relation to the fate of the Torres Strait Islanders. 
New considerations are merging, particularly for an island continent such as Australia. The law has generally been concluded and defined, with definitive promulgation in relation to the exploitation of land resources of all kinds wherever they may occur. But with the development of technology, with the demand for new materials and the discovery of vast natural resources on the sea. bed, there is now an exploration and an exploitation of the marine resources. To a nation such as Australia which is an island continent with a very vast coastline, surrounded by seas and oceans and various jurisdictions some distance out from the low water mark, apart from the free water regions, this is of increasing importance. Therefore we can expect to find that there will be a continuing necessity for Australia to be adverting from time to time to its boundary relations and its sovereignty over areas adjacent to the vast Australian coastline, as other nations wish to exploit the natural resources of a marine character. 
Quite apart from the exploitation of the sea bed. the exploration and the exploitation of the resources of the sea itself have not altogether attracted the attention of this country as they might well have done. I remember that several years ago there was an honourable senator in this place - I refer to  Senator Kendall  whom  Senator O'Byrne  would remember well - who was always concerned at the poor effort being made to develop and expand the Australian fishing industry. He always thought that that industry was denied technological assistance, that it was denied financial assistance, and that very often, therefore, the marine resources were denied exploitation by Australia and other nations came in and took them because we were not sufficiently interested. Of course, that is another aspect of the control of the territorial seas as well as control of the sea bed that lies beneath those waters. 
Indonesia is a country of extraordinarily friendly people. It is a country which is conscious of its role in this part of the world. It is a country that is conscious of its relationship to Australia, as I trust that we are conscious of our relationship with Indonesia. Since the time of its independence, there has been a great display of goodwill. There has been the mutual exchange of people between that country and Australia - army officers who have come down here for training, students who have gone to our universities. Financial assistance has been given, and I think generously given, by a succession of Australian governments. That is as it should be. I am  sure  that those gestures are not made purely for the purpose of the security of Australia or for any selfish or self-motivated reason. They are a genuine demonstration of bur concern for very likable people living, in a lovely country whose independence we assisted to achieve in our own time and in our own way. That assistance has brought the reward of gratitude of the Indonesian people. That that relationship is being continued, is persisting and is being further advanced by legislation such as this must be of tremendous interest and value to Indonesia, as it is to Australia. 
I do not think it is necessary to expatiate at any great length upon the significance of this Bill. We welcome the measure. We do welcome the speed with which these conventions have been ratified. As I say, we can imagine that in the future there will be a still greater demand on this. Parliament to consider matters of this nature concerning those areas which lie actually beyond the continental mainland of Australia. As those positions emerge I hope that Australia will, always be. conscious not only of its own interests but also of its participation in world welfare, in the welfare of other nations, and that the vast resources of the world, within reason, should be made available, so far as is possible, particularly for the' assistance of countries which up to the present have been denied the opportunity to explore and exploit' their own resources as the Western nations have done. We welcome this legislation and we give it our support. 
I address myself to the clause under consideration by the Committee. Clause 7. (1) states: 
The Executive Member shall be paid remuneration at such rate, and an annual allowance at such rate (if any), as the Parliament fixes, but, until 1 January 1974, the rate of that remuneration, and the rate (if any) of that allowance, shall be as prescribed. 
So initially the rate of allowance to the executive member is prescribed and thereafter it shall be set by statute as determined by the. Parliament. I ask the Minister to compare that with clause 22 which states: 
Subject to section 7, the Authority may pay any allowances, and pay or provide any other benefits (whether of a pecuniary nature or otherwise, including benefits by way of financial or other assistance in connexion with housing, transport, insurance or superannuation) for the Executive Member, or for an officer or employee of the Authority, that in the opinion of the Authority are necessary or desirable to assist the Executive Member, officer or employee in, or place him in a position that will facilitate, the performance of his duties or reimburse faim for any loss of expenditure . . . 
I ask him to consider how those 2 clauses are to be read together. Considerable discussion has taken place in the Senate on such matters over the years.  Senator Cavanagh  has been particularly articulate in this matter of the right and responsibility of Parliament to fix, determine and scrutinise allowances. 
Undoubtedly, clause 7 would conform in the most minute particulars with the most stringent of  Senator Cavanagh's  requirements, allowing for the interim period when the allowance shall be determined by regulation and thereafter by statute as from a certain date. But it would seem that if clause  22  of the Bill came under the scrutiny of the honourable senator it would also be the subject of severe criticism from him. It states that allowances may be paid to the executive member, subject to section  7,  and to other people without prescription by regulation, without statute and without parliamentary scrutiny. They shall be such allowances as the Authority itself shall determine in relation to the executive member. I do not want to extrapolate on this matter unduly but I think that it is an important principle to which members of the present Government, when in opposition, gave constant attention, scrutiny and severe criticism. Therefore, I should like the Minister to indicate how the  2  sections are to be read together and why, in view of the general disposition of members of the Government when in opposition, that allowance should be subject to prescription and therefore disallowance by the Parliament, preferably by statute, when this wide provision enables the payment of allowances to the executive member and others to be free from scrutiny, prescription or statutory regulation? 

 - Mr President, I ask for your guidance. I moved my amendment without speaking to it and did not, at that stage, reserve my right to speak. I presume that I now would not be entitled to speak except by leave of the Senate. 
I move the following amendment to the motion moved by  Senator Bishop: 
Leave out the words 'at a later hour of the day', insert 'on the first day of sitting of the Senate after 1 September  1973'. 
The motion will then read: 'That leave be given for the Committee to sit again on the first day of the sitting of the Senate after 1 September 1973'. 
The Opposition has moved as an amendment to clause 1: 
That Clause 1 be postponed - as an instruction to the Government that the further consideration of the Bill be deferred until after the general inquiry into National Rehabilitation and Compensation by the Committee under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Woodhouse has reported . . . 
I wish to move as an amendment to the amendment proposed by the Opposition the following: 
Delete all words after 'deferred' and insert in place thereof: until the first day of sitting of the Senate after 1 September 1973. 
I was on the Senate. Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to which this matter was referred and I do not wish to canvass the matters which were canvassed by the Committee. They have been recited in this chamber and, I understand, in a comprehensive speech by  Senator Wright.  As I said, these matters have been canvassed by the Committee to which the matter was referred and extensively onthe report of the Committee and in conjunction with the debate on this Bill.I do not propose to canvass them again. 
There are in this Bill, of course, many worthwhile provisions. The great mass of the provisions are worth while as indeed are the clauses of the Bill with which some dissatisfaction has been found by members of the Opposition and members of my Party and which were referred to in the Committee's report and the qualifying report by 3 members of the Committee. We feel that the Bill should not be unduly delayed because of the worthwhile provisions which are non- controversial and which we all support. But we do feel that the Bill contains what we regard as somewhat extravagant provisions under which certain segments of a community would be put in a highly privileged and specialised position and that these provisions should receive further consideration by the Government and later, further consideration by this chamber and another place. Nevertheless, it would be unwise, imprudent and unjust to defer indefinitely all the other provisions of the Bill until the report of  Mr Justice  Woodhouse was brought in. After all, the. survey which he is to undertake will go into the entire question of superannuation and could be expected to be a most comprehensive and prolonged inquiry. We would not wish to deprive the Commonwealth Public Service of the provisions of the Bill which we think are timely, prudent and necessary. However, we do feel that the nature of the controversial provisions is such that they require further examination and that, in view of the close scrutiny which these provisions received in the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs- 
Having been in the Chair for the last few minutes I am aware of the great number of honourable senators who have submitted their names as participants in this debate which threatens to be very protracted in the later hours of the sitting of the Senate. Therefore it is not my intention unduly to prolong the debate on this measure which will be fully canvassed on all sides. However, I believe that the Democratic Labor Party must be heard on this matter which is of such significance to the Commonwealth of Australia. We ought not, I think, underestimate the real significance of the Bill that is before the Senate. Honourable senators, more particularly those who have been connected with local government, will direct their remarks to the financial plight of local government authorities and the necessity for some measure of financial independence for them and to the best method by which that independence and financial viability can be established and maintained. All these propositions are very valuable and I agree with the propositions which so many honourable senators have presented. 
However, I should like to advert to the true dramatic significance of what is being effected by this legislation. We are now writing local government into a new place within the Australian Federation, not perhaps in any formal constitutional sense, but pragmatically as a situation which is accepted and which from now on will be acknowledged. While we shall to that extent raise the status of the local government authority and give it new financial strength and greater independence of action we must recognise also that in that process there will be necessarily by the sheer operation of the legislation a certain circumscription and truncation of the power and authority of the States. I know that that is not any formal delimitation of the power of the States, but in fact it will operate in that section as it will remove local government authorities and many of their projects from the scrutiny of the States. If we consider that local government should more particularly come under the jurisdiction of the States and be subject to some measure of scrutiny by the States, to the extent that that is now being avoided, the States will suffer a delimitation of their function and perhaps their effectiveness in controlling their whole area of sovereignty which is their particular concern. Therefore I do not think that the Senate should allow this legislation to pass without at least adverting to that situation. 
Desirable and all as devising of new methods of providing finance to local authorities may be, I think we should acknowledge the ultimate consequence of this measure, and it should at least give us cause for concern. The concept in this Bill, of course, is really a rewriting of the Grants Commission Act. The Bill retains the traditional functions of the Grants Commission in the provision of special grants under section 96 of the Constitution to claimant States. There is no alteration to that provision and the States which are claimant States and elect to be claimant States will still be able to come in their traditional manner to the Commonwealth asking for special grants. The only essential difference which is now projected in the legislation is that instead of those applications going on the reference of  His Excellency  the Governor-General to the Grants Commission applications will now go to the Minister and reference will be made by the Minister to the Grants Commission. What exactly is the implication of that alteration I do not know. It would appear that the reference by the Governor-General to the Grants Commission may be somewhat anachronistic, yet it gave a measure of impartiality in the reference of such matters, whereas now the matter will go to the Executive Government and the reference will be by a Minister of that Government. That may or may not be good. I do not fulminate on it and I do not intend to dogmatise on it. I merely advert to it as a change which could be more significant than the mere substitution of the words that now appear in the new Bill. 
One of the interesting concepts, of course, is the concept of regionalism in relation to local government. I think that this is valuable and important. Members of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution found that there were certain difficulties associated with the operation of sections of the Constitution where waterways moved from one local authority area to another. If it is wished to control such a waterway for the purpose of obviating pollution or controlling pollution there are grave constitutional difficulties and grave differences between various local government authorities. This measure may be one method by which, at least within a State these problems can be overcome. If a number of local authorities were seeking finance for the conservation of the environment or the elimination of pollution related to a stream running through their areas they might well be considered as a regional organisation much more efficiently equipped to handle that situation. 
The Bill, of course, will not overcome the difficulty associated with the passage of waterways between States because whatever regionalism might be created obviously a region can be declared only within the boundaries of a particular State or States and a region cannot trespass across interstate boundaries, enabling the whole of the waterway to be considered as one entity subject to legislative or administrative control so that the whole matter can be considered as one problem, met as one problem and solved as one problem. Nevertheless the concept of regionalism is good because, while local authorities have their own loyalties and their own interests, we know as a matter of practical experience that as they impinge one upon the other there are areas which are common to each of them. Great projects may have to be developed over a number of local authority areas. The concept of the region is one which makes these viable propositions and one which can enable things to be done more effectively which otherwise could not be done so well, or in fact enable things to be done that could not otherwise be done at all. 
I think that a great deal of authority is given to the Minister to determine that a particular local authority may become a regional organisation. I wonder whether we are vesting the Minister with too wide a discretionary power? I think that is a matter that might well be looked at in the Committee stage of this Bill. We might consider the power under which the Minister, for purposes which seem good and sufficient to him, without any intervention by the Parliament to disallow his determination - I presume that Parliament would have no right of disallowance - may determine that a particular local authority shall be a regional organisation for the purposes of the Act and enable such local authority to come to the Commission to ask for a grant within the terms of the statute. 
The Bill provides that the Minister may determine that a particular local authority shall for the purposes of this Bill be a region itself. Regions, that is, groups of local authorities determined as regions, are the only ones which will be applicants as contemplated by the Bill. 
 I am saying that the Minister may determine that local Authority A - a particular authority - may be a region for the purpose of becoming  an applicant under the provisions of the Bill. 
 Normally, it would not. It will not be necessary for him to say that it will not. The power will be given to the Minister to say that a local authority may bc a region. This is a very wide power to be given to a Minister without the possibility of intervention, disallowance or the exercise of some method of scrutiny by this Parliament. 
This is quite an historic Bill, the full historic significance of which possibly escapes us at this stage. Local government for many years has laboured under a shortage of funds and a great series of frustrations. Those involved in local government are some of the most dedicated members of the community. Those who have sat on local government authorities have been very often associated with them in an executive capacity 'for virtually a lifetime of work and dedication. This is an indication of the tremendous local interest and the loyalty which is given in the area of local government. It must have been frustrating to see, in the course of this lifetime work and dedication, that local authorities were not supplied with sufficient funds to enable them to function properly according to the concept of those who were trying to do the best that they possibly could. 
As  Senator Devitt  interjects, local authorities were not directly recognised by previous Federal governments. They were, as it were, subsidiaries of the States. 
But I do think that the principle which is called the principle of subsidiary has a great deal to recommend it. 
Yes. To put it in physiological terms, the body does not do what may be done by the arm, the arm does not do what may be done by the hand, or the hand does not do what may be done by the fingers. That is the social principle of subsidiarity. I think that it is a good and an efficient principle. It enables those who are closest to events to be intimately and personally associated with them and to try to discharge most efficiently the functions that are associated with the execution of those provisions. This Bill does in that sense create a different situation. 

 Senator Drake-Brockman has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of this Bill. It is an amendment which, I think, should appeal to the Senate. It is an amendment that does not destroy the purpose of the Bill. It does not purport to destroy the Bill. The principles of the Bill, including the recognition of the position of local government and of the needs of local government, are adequately acknowledged, I think, by those who propound the amendment. The quarrel is with the means which have been adopted by the Government to give effect to the alleviation of these problems. It is suggested that there will be a very heavy bureaucratic intervention which is rather unnecessary and that if the States were allowed, with their expertise in their traditional role, with their knowledge of local government and their identification and association with it now and over a century, to continue in that role and if the funds were channelled through the States to various local authorities, a heavy bureaucratic machine and a heavy infrastructure would be avoided and the ultimate effect to be achieved would be achieved more easily, probably more cheaply and more to the satisfaction of all concerned. Therefore, I think, the amendment expresses a firm view and a most practical view which warrants the attention of the Senate and should receive its support. The amendment states in part: 
if, it is necessary to establish new regional authorities, those authorities ought to be determined and established by the States. 
I think that is the most important part of this amendment. As 1 see it, the States have co-operated for years with local government. In many cases they have sustained local government and have stimulated activity in local areas where stimulation was necessary. They, more than anybody, know the problems of the local governments within their State area of sovereignty. They certainly should be the ones who should be consulted in the establishment of a region which could be recognised as an applicant for the purpose of receiving grants as contemplated in this Bill. I think to bypass the States in this way will be not only unfair to the States, but also will not be likely to achieve the best possible result. Undoubtedly local governments will have their own views. Naturally they will want to project their own position. That is natural and probably in a sense it is desirable. However, there will have to be some co-ordination and somebody will have to say why certain local governments should or should not be grouped in this region or in that region. 
Obviously they will not altogether be equal partners any more than the States are considered equal partners. The local governments are recognised with the new stature and status within the troika. Nevertheless, applications by those areas for grants will be subject to reference by the Minister to the Grants Commission. The States will be consulted on the question of the function of the grant - the purpose to which it is to be applied - and therefore to that extent the local authorities will still be subject to some rather severe scrutiny and inspection, just as the States are which make applications for special grants to the Grants Commission. Of course, although the States are sovereign in the constitutional sense, if they become applicants to the Grants Commission and recipients of special grants, their budgets also are subject to inspection and scrutiny by the Grants Commission. 
While we may accept the States or for that matter local authorities as partners within the troika, I think it must be accepted that they will not enjoy the status of the Commonwealth. To a lesser extent they still will not enjoy the status of the States. But they will enjoy a new and improved and enlarged stature within the federation. I think that is of very great significance and importance. I have indicated that it was not my intention unduly to prolong my contribution to this debate, because we acknowledge the desirability of the principles embodied in the Bill. Our quarrel, if at all, is with the method that has been adopted. We feel that the States should have been given the opportunity of greater consultation, in co-operation with the local authorities, in determining the disbursement of those moneys. The determination of regions might more effectively have been accomplished by that method than by the method which is contemplated in the Bill. For those reasons, while welcoming this new recognition of the role of local governments, which are so close to the people, so involved with the actual physical improvement of areas in which people live, with the day to day affairs of the ordinary person within the community, we only hope that in the methods proposed to be adopted there will be a successful accomplishment of these aims. But while expressing that hope we express it with some little concern. We trust that the bureaucratic structure which is necessarily created will not render innocuous, less effective, futile or arid the propositions which are now embodied in this Bill. 
I think local government now has a challenge presented to it; a challenge to cooperate with other local authorities in constituting viable, effective and relevant regions which will move with unity to approach the Commonwealth government for special grants. We should see areas of co-operation where before we may have seen areas, if not of confrontation or conflct, at least of difference. We should now see areas moving together towards a common purpose. As the things that are to be effected are those which are not usually peculiar and isolated in particular areas but are shared with contiguous areas and certainly with adjacent areas, I think this Bill might help to achieve these aims. For those reasons we welcome the Bill but for the reasons which are recited in the amendment, we support the amendment for which we will vote at the appropriate time. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to a report in today's 'Australian* emanating from the United Press Agency in New. York and dealing with the possibility of contamination of canned goods. I transgress slightly the Standing Orders to quote from the report, because it is somewhat technical. 
The report states: 

 Mr Lloyd Kempe,  of the University of Michigan, told a meeting of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers in Detroit that tests demonstrated the inability of typical high temperature-short time processing to kill bacterial spores encased in food particles. 
The method involves the processing of foods at higher temperatures and shorter times before canning. 

 Mr Kempe  said the bacteria found in his testing, 
Clostridium botalinum,  can produce the most poisonous substance known to man. 
He went on to deal with the effects on the canning industry. Is this method of food processing, which is one of short term exposure to a very high temperature, operated in Australia? If so, will the Minister immediately consult State Ministers for Health on the need for an urgent survey of the food processes adopted by the canning industry in Australia? Will the Minister for Health have his Department investigate the position in relation to canned goods imported from sources where the suspected process is operated? Will the Minister make a statement reassuring the Australian public, if such can be done, in the light of the position in this country? 
It was the disposition of the Joint Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation -  Senator Devitt  can correct me if I am wrong - that under the projected scheme no person should be at a detriment. I think that was the aim. If that was not expressly recited in the report it was the disposition of the Committee. If detriment has occurred it is almost inadvertently. I hope, with  Senator Rae,  that this matter will receive early attention and rectification. That would be in consonance with our thinking even though it was not articulated in the report. 
I  do not wish to speak at length but merely wish to associate the Democratic Labor Party with this Bill. Unfortunately, because of circumstances the DLP did not have the opportunity to speak during the second reading stage of the Bill. The establishment of the Marine Institute in the Townsville area is of immense value to that area and to Australia. Whilst the great fisheries of the world mostly lie in the colder zones of water, the investigation of the fishing potential in the tropic and sub-tropic waters is of particular significance to Australia. The investigation has never been adequately carried out - certainly, as  Senator Murphy  says, not by Australia. It is important that it be done because the productive capacity of the marine areas around Australia could be of immense economic value to Australia. It is unfortunate that it was found necessary to change the suggested site of the Australian Institute of Marine Science. It is very wise that it has been discovered that it was prudent to move the site now. When the Institute is ultimately developed it will be on the best available site. Therefore we commend  the  Bill. I am sure the people of northern 
Queensland, who take great pride in the establishment of the Institute in their area, would recognise the necessity that has arisen to alter the actual site to give a fluidity of site according to the availability of land and the availability of the areas for research and investigation. The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the motion moved by  Senator Cotton.  I think we must recognise the economic fact that one of the most difficult things to discover is just what is causing the pressure on prices and where the solutions lie. We are moving into an economic field of very great complexity. Even those who are most skilled in this field are unable to diagnose the cause and certainly, as yet, they are unable to provide the remedy. Senior Cotton, in putting down this motion, is asking the Joint Committee on Prices - I think very wisely - to consider these other factors, all of which may in some degree, either more or less, be contributing to the price-cost push. If this Committee is to do its work properly, it is important that it have regard to all the circumstances, including the ones which  Senator Cotton  bas mentioned. 
However, there is one suggestion I make. If necessary I shall move this as an amendment to the terms of reference proposed by  Senator Cotton.  Paragraph (1) (a) refers to the increased cost arising from industrial stoppages and strikes. I have in mind to add the following words: 'and from consent industrial agreements'.  Senator Cotton  may be prepared to accept that and incorporate it in his motion. That would save  a  formal amendment being moved. The reason for this proposal is that during the last session we introduced a private member's Bill called the Prices Limitation Bill. The object and purport of that Bill was to consider industrial agreements which were entered into by an employer and a group of employees or a group of employers and a group of employees and which may have resulted in a very substantial wage increase as a result of which the prices of the employer's products may have been increased and the increased cost passed on to the consumer. 
The concept of the legislation was this: If an employer chose to enter into such an agreement with an employee or a group of employees, then he was not entitled to increase the prices of his goods for 200 days unless he could satisfy a commissioner - perhaps a commissioner of prices or the Commissioner of Trade Practices - that he was paying the increased wages out of his own profits and was not passing that cost on to the consumer. That Bill went to the second reading stage; but, unfortunately, it disappeared from the notice paper with the dissolution of the House of Representatives. So far we have not represented it. The principle embodied in that Bill might well be examined by the Committee in the course of the reference which is now being put down by  Senator Cotton  and which will be part of the total examination which the Committee will have in mind and no doubt will handle with competence and, we hope, with great success. If  Senator Cotton  is agreeable, I suggest that he might add those words to his terms of reference and let the motion be presented to the Senate for decision in its amended form. 
I also, as a member of the Joint Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation, am delighted to see come forward the enabling legislation which has adopted in substantial detail the Committee's recommendations. There are one or two exceptions and one relates - probably this will be discussed at slightly greater length by those who are already on pensions - to the movement of their pensions in terms of the rising costs of living. Maybe in this area disappointment is held because our recommendations in that regard have not found complete acceptance. 
There are one or two things that I should mention and on which I agree with  Senator Devitt.  The first is the removal of the inexplicable complexities of the previous scheme which was causing great dissatisfaction n the Services because servicemen just could not understand the scheme and it had a very bad psychological effect within the Services. The second is to try to give some measure of equity and justice and to simplify the scheme by making a percentage contribution of actual salary instead of a system of units. That has greatly simplified the whole proposition. We deliberately set out to get rid of the word pension. We have used the words 'contributing member' and 'recipient member' because unfortunately the word pension has come to have a connotation which implies some element of charity. I do not think it is a good termin any legislation. I would like to see it removed. We have set out to have it removed by this legislation. We hope that it may well be the indicator of what we feel and what the Parliament feels should be done with all social security legislation. 
This is a superannuation scheme to which people contribute. They get a reward on their retirement. They get a retirement benefit and we think that 'recipient member' and 'contributing member' are much more appropriate terms. I do not want to go into the whole of the details of the legislation. The report of the Jess Committee has been before honourable senators for many months. As the legislation substantially embodies the recommendations of the report honourable senators will be familiar with the purpose and intent of that Committee. I pay my tribute to the  chairman  of that Committee,  Mr Jess,  for his work and I express my appreciation of the work that was done by my colleagues on that Committee. 
I rose principally to point out that I presented a dissenting report in regard to one or two paragraphs of the Committee's general report. This is in pursuance of a view which I held in relation to unmarried male and female members of public superannuation schemes whether it is this scheme, the Commonwealth Public Service superannuation scheme or the parliamentary superannuation scheme andI disclosed my interest in my dissenting report in terms. I had hoped that the fact thatI myself am unmarried might be accepted as prompting my interest rather than persuading my judgment. The amendment which I shall present is one which sets out to provide that unmarried male and female contributors to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund would have some entitlements to pass on in succession to a surviving mother, brother, sister or child, particularly if dependent, in the same way as can a married man in the Services in relation to his surviving widow and children. My amendment has been circulated. As an amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a secondtime I move: 
Add to the end of the motion the following: 'But the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should have included the fallowing provisions - 
That one surviving parent of an unmarried contributing or recipient member, male or female, or if there is no such, a surviving sister or brother of such deceased member be entitled to receive the amount of annuity prescribed in recommendation 15 (a) and (b) as if such person were the widow. 
In the event that the contributing or recipient member is survived by both parents the mother to have prior entitlement. 
In relation to reversionary benefits to a brother or sister in the event that the member may be survived by other than a brother only or a sister only the member may designate to which eligible brother or sister the benefit will be payable. 
The brother or sister shall be entitled to receive a reversionary benefit only if within a prescribed age differential with the contributor; and where the differential is exceeded an annuity be paid at a rate appropriately reduced. 
On the death of any recipient reversioner all further reversionary rights shall cease. 
A brother or sister being a 'child' within the ambit of recommendation 16 of the Committee's recommendations be entitled to receive the benefit recommended as if such brother or sister were the child of the deceased contributing or recipient member'. 
I have presented that amendment not with any great expectation that it will receive the support of this chamber. Without unduly occupying the time of the Senate I will just draw the attention of honourable senators to one or two observations which I made in that dissenting report which are pertinent asI present this amendment. I said this: 
I hold firm to the view that contributors irrespective of sex or marital status should receive as far as practicable the same range of benefits; that suitable provision be made by which a reversionary benefit created by a deceased contributor, and which if he were married would pass by right in terms of the general recommendations of this Committee to the widow or widower, should similarly pass to such person as is within an acceptable and prescribed degree of consanguinity (and in some cases the person designated by the contributor). 
I deal with the question that traditionally the dependants' reversionary benefits have been based on the legal duty to support. But a new concept has been written into this legislation in which there is recognition of the entitlement of a de facto spouse to receive reversionary benefits. In other words, it moves from a pure legal duty to support to a moral duty to support. That now receives statutory recognition. I have argued that if we impute a moral duty to support in the case of a de facto wife, surely the moral duty of a single person who may have a dependent mother or somebody else - a brother or a sister - dependent on him is equally compelling and should be equally recognised. 
Yes, I think I did. That was in my original recommendation. I did not use the word 'dependent' because I thought that this should be an entitlement as of right, not that a means test or a dependency test should apply. Nevertheless, even if a dependency test were to apply, that would be acceptable. At least we would be seme way along the road. One of the arguments that has been advanced against my proposition involved the question of emerging cost. For this reason I consulted the Actuary. I read from page 52 of my dissenting report where I state that die Actuary advised as follows: 
In order to arrive at estimates of cost for any proposals concernning dependants it is necessary to make assumptions as to me sua be rs of dependants who will become eligible for the proposed benefits. For the existing scheme, these assumptions can be based on past experience. For the proposed scheme wherein a reversionary pension is available to the widow of any contributor or to the widow of any pensioner who was married when he became a pensioner, as in the existing scheme, and in addition to any pensioner who took a wife after retirement but prior to aged 60, a further assumption is necessary. For the purposes of making calculations for the abovementioned report, the further assumption was made that all pensioners were married at aged 60 or at earlier death. 
In other words, the whole actuarial basis of computation of the scheme rests on the assumption that all persons who become eligible for pension are, in fact, married at the point of time of receipt of that pension. Obviously, that is an actuarial figment used for actuarial purposes. The significance of it is as mentioned in the Actuary's letter: 
It was also assumed that the age distribution of wives of existing members would apply, so that very young wives would be eligible for reduced benefits only. These assumptions imply that a reversionary benefit will be available in respect of all pensioners who die before age 60 and in respect of each pensioner who dies after age 60, subject to his predeceasing a wife who was alive when the pensioner was aged 60. lt can be assumed therefore that the cost of the Committee's proposal already covers a condition that a reversionary pension be made available either to a widow or to a brother, sister or parent who was dependent on an unmarried pensioner at aged 60 or earlier death. 
In other words, the Actuary says that the whole assumption of his calculation is based on the fact that every person would pass on a reversionary benefit, he being married and being survived at death. In those circumstances, it appears extraordinarily anomalous that this concept was not received. 1 regret that my colleagues on the Committee were not able to agree. I was the only dissentient. Frankly the other members of the Committee disagreed with my proposition. Nevertheless, I felt that having embodied it in the report, I had an obligation to present it as an amendment to the motion for the second reading of this Bill. I particularly put up a plea for women in the armed Services. I deal with the position of unmarried women who are in the defence forces. I point out that there arc many wemen who by age composition will remain in the armed Services without marrying until they die or retire, probably leave those dependent on them without passing on any benefit. In the course of my report I say: 
Excluding unmarried service personnel below the age of 26 years (most of whom will marry or leave the Services) and presuming that those above the age of 45 years will not marry - on the figures in the First and Second Schedules 13.6 per cent of female personnel in that category will continue in the Service unmarried until retirement, but only 9.4 per cent of male personnel in the same category. 
In other words, a quite substantial component of unmarried females and a slightly smaller component of unmarried males will contribute at the same rate as other members of the armed forces who receive the equivalent salary and will receive a very much smaller benefit which cannot be passed on, in reversion, to those who succeed them and who may be dependent on them. 
The session is drawing to a close. It is not my intention to prolong unduly the debate on this matter. I agree with and have been a party to ail the recommendations of the Committee, with the exception of one which is the subject of my expressed dissent. I commend the amendment to honourable senators. I do so candidly, but not in the expectation that it will be carried. At least it brings the matter before this chamber. I think I can say that this is certainly not the end of the examination of the superannuation scheme for the armed forces. It is a new scheme. It is a different scheme. There is little doubt that time will indicate imperfections in it which will require statutory rectification. When they are dealt with, as undoubtedly they will have to be dealt with, I hope, that the proposition which I now put as my amendment and which was my reason for dissenting from a recommendation of the Committee will be embodied in any amending legislation. It is in that hope, if not in that expectation, that I commend the proposition to honourable senators for examination and trust that at a future date the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  might be able to commit this proposition to his Cabinet colleagues for sympathetic consideration and, I hope, for favourable acceptance. 
-I do not wish to speak on the matter to which  Senator McManus  has referred. I rise to deal with one small aspect of this matter. On 11 December last year I wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  asking him whether he would indicate to me the formal processes by which the 2-man interim Administration had done many things, including the lifting of the compulsory requirements of the National Service Act. On 12 January this year the Prime Minister replied to me, and he referred me, in relation to the National Service Act, to a statement released by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Barnard,  on 5 December, which reads in part: 
Liability for call up under the National Service Act was ended today by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr L.  H. Barnard. In a series of administrative directions to the Department of Labour and National Service,  Mr Barnard  deferred indefinitely all liability under the Act. 
Under section 31(1) of the National Service Act the Minister has power to deferthe liability of such classes of persons as he determines where it appears to him to be necessary or desirable to do so in the public interest. 

 Mr Barnard said that the next call up had been scheduled for January 31February 1 next year. 
About 2,200 men had been passed fit for service and would have been liable for the call up. 
There were another 30,000 men who would have been included in futureintakes, subject to fitness. 
The statement goes on: 
All men who were liable for call up would be advised as soon as possible that their liability had ended. 
At this stage I am commenting only on the process by which the Government gave effect to the policy which, as  Senator McManus  said, it had put before the people and in relation to which it sought a mandate and on which, it could be interpreted, it had obtained a mandate. But over a period of years we have seen in this place very severe comments levelled by the present Government which was then in Opposition against the undue use of ministerial power and ministerial expression. Whether or not one agrees with the National Service Act, one must recall that it was a statute of the realm which laid down the compulsory enrolment requirement for national service. In fact, by ministerial order in relation to that section of the Act to which  Mr .Barnard  referred, the whole provisions of the statute were laid aside. 
With respect, I say to those who took this action that it sets an extremely dangerous precedent. I often wonder whether, if there had been some legal challenge to what had been done, such as somebody insisting that he register under the terms of the Act, a court might not have held that this was not a defensible exercise of ministerial discretion. In those circumstances, I think we should have some concern about this matter. I am not debating the merits of the matter or whether the Government sought a mandate and apparently received a mandate in this area; I am merely commenting on the process by which this action was taken. The Government may argue that part of the mandate was to do this as early as possible and that this was the only means of doing it. But there was always available, of course, the immediate recall of Parliament  to  legislate for the repeal of the Act which, I think, it was intended to do, that would have been the proper course to follow and one that would have satisfied those who in this chamber for so long have been critics of ministerial discretionary exercises. I think the Senate should advert to this and regard it as a very dangerous precedent which the Government, new in office and vested with great power, and Ministers, vested with great discretion that they can exercise, should exercise with prudence and restraint, having regard always to the pre-eminent position of the Parliament, the pre-eminent requirement of statute, and the need that Parliament itself should be the only organ which can repeal a statute of the realm, and in proper parliamentary form. 
 I, as a Temporary  Chairman  of Committees, direct a question to you,  Mr President.  Some confusion arose last night during the process of determining whether a division had or had not been called for. There was some misunderstanding. One of the Temporary Chairmen of Committees was in the chair at the time. Would you be kind enough to intimate, for the guidance of the honourable senators who occupy the chair from time to time, what the practice is regarding calling for divisions? The Standing Orders are rather specific. They state that a division can be called for on-y if the decision of the Chair is challenged by at least 2 honourable senators, who must call the word 'Divide'. The practice has grown up whereby the Chair often says: Is a division required?' I should be obliged if, for the guidance of Temporary Chairmen of Committees, a settled practice could be determined. Should the Chair continue to invite honourable senators to indicate whether they want a division or should it insist on the word 'Divide' being called by those who challenge the ruling? What are the circumstances in which a division may be called for? 
I rise to speak on this Supply Bill not so much to canvass the particulars which are comprised in the schedules to that Bill but to take the opportunity because no encomiums will be passed on this occasion to comment on the work of the parliamentary counsel who have been operating in this session. As you know  Mr Acting Deputy President,  some few years ago we reconstituted the status of the Parliamentary counsel from that of parliamentary draftsman to counsel attached to the Parliament. I doubt that a body of parliamentary counsel has ever been called upon to provide such a great quantity of work of professional skill in such a short time and with such effect. I do not canvass the merits or demerits of m legislative program in this comment which I now make, but undoubtedly these gentlemen were faced with a particularly onerous situation. They were asked to accommodate and articulate in formal legal terms some new social and political philosophies, and some very great departures from practice in Bills such as the Prices Justification Bill. They have done this with such skill that such an enormous burden of work should not pass without comment in this chamber. 
I understand that by the time the Senate concludes these sittings about 130 Bills will have been presented to it. When one realises just what is involved in this mass of Bills and the time allocated for their deliberation, one realises the immense burden of responsibility which has been imposed on the parliamentary counsel, the draftsmen who draft the legislation; for unless the most detailed scrutiny is applied - and even in the most ideal circumstances that it not possible - a tremendous burden must rest upon their skill, dedication and particularly their professional integrity. I think that we have seen demonstrated on this occasion a magnificent contribution to the functioning of the Parliament by these gentlemen of the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel. 1 therefore wish to convey, at least on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party, our appreciation of the work they have done in the professional field and the extent to which they have been able to accommodate the program of the Government, which in many other circumstances would be subjected to severe criticism but which from their point of view is a professional exercise in which they have carried into legal form the philosophies and the ideas of the Government which has just assumed office. I think that we ought to place on record our appreciation of  Mr Comans  and his draftsmen for the contribution they have made to the functioning of the Parliament. 
I appreciate the remarks of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. It is not my intention to impede the passage of this Bill which has so many good, worthwhile and salutary provisions, some of which perhaps have been too long delayed. As honourable senators know, I have circulated an amendment which 1 propose to move at the Committee stage which deals with the position of unmarried members of the fund. Honourable senators will recall that yesterday in the course of debate on the defence forces retirement benefits scheme I moved an amendment to the second reading to project the same principle in relation to male and female unmarried members of the defence forces. This amendment was in considerable detail. The propositions which were relevant to that submission are equally relevant to this. After all, in this fund unmarried persons pay the same percentage of salary as do married persons. 
This Bill will make certain extensions of benefits to surviving widowers of female members of the Parliament, a proposition with which I think in justice we must agree, and also provides for extended benefits such as portability to those who come from other Parliaments and it provides benefits to some members already on superannuation who have married or remarried. We agree with these changes. But I am unable to see why the position of single men or single women in the Parliament should be denied acceptance and acknowledgment. If they pay the same percentage of salary they certainly should have the same right, within the limits of reason, to pass on their entitlement to a mother by way of right or to a dependent brother or sister above a certain age - because I think it would be improper to give that entitlement to a very young brother or sister. But within those limitations I think the proposition can be well made and is very easily defended and projected. I am unable to see why this proposition has consistently been rejected. 
I know, as other honourable senators will know, of 2 former female members of this (Parliament who are in this position. I do not know nor would I presume to canvass the domestic situation of those estimable ladies but they were unmarried and. may or may not have dependants or those who would look to them for ultimate support. Yet they are not able to pass on an entitlement to such a person as an entitlement can be passed on to the widow or widower of a deceased member. It has always appeared to me in relation to both this fund and other funds that this is a denial of justice. There is some element of discrimination. This is particularly so in these days in relation to female members when there is a growing acknowledgment of the equality of rights of males and females. It seems only right from the point of view of ladies that they should be acknowledged as having the same entitlements and benefits as do males in this place, lt seems to be a denial of the currently accepted and developing political philosophy that this discrimination should continue to apply. 
As I said at the beginning of my speech I intend to move an amendment to clause 17 of the Bill during the Committee stage. The amendment which I will move is as follows: 
After proposed Sub-section 2 of proposed Section 19 insert: 
Section 19 (2a) Upon the death of a Member or of  a  former Member who was receiving  a  retiring allowance, without leaving  a  widow or widower, the mother or sister of such Member or former Member if such mother or sister was totally or mainly maintained by the Member or former Member shall receive the same benefits as she would receive if she were the widow or widower of the deceased Member or the person receiving the retiring allowance. 
Provided that if such sister is a 'child' within the meaning in the Act such sister shall receive an allowance as a 'child'. 
There may be certain personalisation in that amendment though I am not certain that those provisions would necessarily apply in my case. Part of the amendment certainly would not apply in my case; the remainder may or may not, according to the interpretation of the terms in which the legislation would emerge. So while there is a certain personal element is this, it is not necessarily totally personal but is a projection of the principle which I outlined in the conclusions of the report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. I have no fond expectation that the amendment will be accepted. But I put it forward in a formal manner so that it may be adverted to. 
I agree with  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that there are still anomalies in the scheme which may be eliminated in time. I formally put this proposition in the hope that it will be placed before the trustees and subsequently the Government to look at and to see if what I have outlined cannot be embodied in subsequent amendments to the legislation. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party wishes to be associated with the motion of condolence which has been moved in relation to a former senator in this place, the late  Senator Sir Walter  Cooper. It was my personal pleasure and privilege to sit here when he was a senior Minister of the Government as Minister for Repatriation. The things which have been adverted to by previous speakers as being the things he did in his life are a very accurate reflection of the many facets of his character. He was a man of great personal courage. He was a man of deep sincerity. He was a man of very wide solicitude for those who lacked the things in life that he wanted all people to have. He was intensely loyal to his political convictions, which he presented at all times without bitterness and without rancour. For that and his other qualities he commanded, as he deserved, the respect, regard and, shall we say, the deep affection of all those who came to know him. He did have some strange but attractive qualities. He had a way of answering parliamentary questions in a most compendious manner, as some honourable senators who sit in this place will recall, which could occupy a great deal of question time. That sprang from his intense interest in the portfolio which he administered and in those about whom he was so concerned. I join with other honourable senators in supporting this motion. On behalf of the Democratic Labor Party and myself, I extend to Lady Cooper and the members of her family our very deep sympathy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 

 Mr D.R.R. Munro 
This Bill has come before the Senate for a second time. There have been several suggestions put forward in relation to it in the intervening period. My original attitude was that I was against the retention of the death penalty. I was an abolitionist in this area. My position remains the same. I know that compelling arguments stemming from logic and sentiment have been presented by those who feel that in certain circumstances, as a social precaution, the death penalty should be retained. I acknowledge the situation in which those arguments have been presented and what actuates the minds of those who have presented them. But I cannot find myself in agreement with them. I still feel that the death penalty does not act as a deterrent to the commission of offences against the public law. For that and other considerations, I feel that it should be abolished. Therefore I will persist with my original view and support the Bill for the abolition of the death penalty. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, is prompted by a reply given by the Minister for the Media to a question asked of him by  Senator McManus  in which reference was made to the operations of the Australian Film Corporation and its virtual immunity from interrogation and scrutiny. I ask: Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate present to the Senate a list of the instrumentalities which could be described as statutory corporations, showing the date of their establishment and giving a brief summary of the functions of each of them and the nature of their accountability to this Parliament? 
A general proposition has been stated here and has been resolved by the Senate which is for the abolition of capital punishment. This amendment purports to place against the general proposition a particular circumstance which might be a qualification or dispensation from the general proposition. Once I or anybody else has accepted the general proposition and the reasons which found such an attitude, I do not think it is logical or proper for such a person then to find a qualification which would justify a departure from the acceptance of the general proposition. If the proposition is placed on the basis that there is no proper justification for taking the life of a person condemned by process of law as guilty of an offence, and in those circumstances or any attached circumstances such .a person's life should not be taken from him, then 1 do not think that logically one can have a hierarchy of offences. In that case only the peak of the hierarchy would justify departure from the general principle. I am not speaking for other honourable senators who may not find such a position or may find that a departure is justified, warranted and acceptable. I personally could not find that. It may well be, of course, that the crime of treason stands today at the peak of the hierarchy of offences, that is, in the concept of our regard for nationality, our nation and the protection of iS security. It could be that in another age and in another time some other body of offences may be found to be even more culpable and more warranting the final punishment than would even the offence of treason. Therefore one would be stating propositions on the basis of shifting sands, which I think would be very undesirable. For those reasons 1 oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood,  though I understand what has prompted him to move it. lt is a justifiable attitude which is propounded and one which is defensible but one which in the circumstances of the acceptance of the general proposition and the reasons which actuate me to accept that proposition, I cannot support. 
 Mr President,  may I ask a question of you in relation to this matter? 
During the course of this debate I have opposed the provision for capital punishment at all stages of debate on the Bill and I have opposed any departures from that principle in the particular amendments which have been moved. This amendment deals with a modern horrifying exercise - that of attempting to hijack an aircraft which immediately puts the complement of the plane- 
That is right. It immediately creates horror in the mind of anybody who contemplates this situation. Of course, this is a most modern offence, and for that reason it has attracted the patronage of distorted minds - those people who for political purposes or for private gain have resorted to hijacking in order to exact their demands. But once you start to categorise offences which will or will not attract capital punishment, then immediately you may persuade those of criminal ingenuity to devise alternative methods of exacting their demands which may be more horrifying even than the ones we are now considering. I trust that I personally have no criminal propensities, but in an attempt to exact demands it would not be beyond my ingenuity to devise what could be even more horrifying than even hijacking and destroying an aircraft. 
As we read the newspapers from day to day I think that we are shocked by the ingenuity that is displayed by the criminal or the perverted mind in an attempt to achieve its ends. As I say, you may drive such people to resort to something else which may be more horrifying once you prescribe capital punishment for this offence. In those circumstances I think that this type of thing, in itself, can carry the elements of danger. I think that if we are going to adopt the general principle we should adopt it in toto without departures and without qualifications. 
Of course there is a point beyond which right reason does not take us. But in the case of capital punishment, the general principle having been stated, I think it is prudent that we should observe it as a general and universal proposition. To use a term that I used previously, once you enter into the field of a hierarchy of offences, it is an interminable field, it is a lane without an end, and it would merely mean that from time to time, as ingenuity demanded it, we would be adding new offences to create the departure that we have in mind. In those circumstances I still support the general proposition. Whilst acknowledging the attitude of those who see in this modern circumstance the most horrifying situation and sharing their sensitivity on that point, 1 do not depart from the general proposition and I find myself unable to support the amendment. 
 I wish to speak on the same subject. My intervention in this matter is directed not to the particular case of  Mr Everingham  or the facts or circumstances which surrounded his actions or the action taken against him by the Presiding Officers. I approach this matter with some degree of irony, lt is ironical that it is only about 12 months ago that I raised in this chamber the subject of the conduct of the Senate and of honourable senators in relation to 2 journalists who had transgressed and who had been arraigned before the Committee of Privileges because of their transgressions. A recommendation was brought in by that Committee, which was adopted by the Senate, to the effect that the journalists should be reprimanded and the reprimand was administered forthwith. 
I support the propositions which have just been put forward by  Senator Greenwood.  I agree with his presenting them in this place. There was a denial of natural justice to those 2 gentlemen, not so insofar as the finding of guilt was concerned because that was a finding by the Committee of Privileges after hearing evidence, but when the 2 gentlemen concerned were not called upon before punishment was imposed to show cause why they should be punished. To my mind, as I submitted in perhaps an unduly lengthy address, that was a denial of natural justice. It offended the canons of judicial conduct. Unfortunately my proposition was not accepted in this place. Therefore I was somewhat intrigued tonight upon seeing the significance of what  Senator Greenwood  has now proposed. What is of concern to him here, to use his own term, is the method by which the decision was arrived at and the penalty imposed. In the other case my concern was not so much with the method by which the decision was arrived at as the method by which the penalty was imposed. I quoted many substantial authorities to support my proposition that the Senate should have given the 2 gentlemen concerned the opportunity of showing cause why they should or should not be punished, and that having been denied that opportunity there was a denial of natural justice. I know that that was perhaps a refinement in argument and in presentation, but I did stress that it is rather the principle of facilis descendus Averni. If the Senate stumbled on that occasion it could have been the first step in a precipitous downward glide. We now meet the position which has been canvassed - 
That is possible. Then we meet this position tonight where again the Parliament has found that perhaps it has not acted with the high degree of solicitude and concern which should be expected of this place. I am therefore grateful to  Senator Greenwood  that he has raised this matter in the context in which he has. I point out to honourable senators that this is a lesson to the Senate that it must be extraordinarily sensitive where the rights of individuals impinge upon the rights of this place and where perhaps action taken in this place can unduly prejudice the rights of private citizens. In this case, as it was in the case I presented, it is clearly a matter of the relationship of pressmen or a journalist to the Parliament itself and to its operations. Therefore, if we have learned any lesson from my presentation of that case and if it has been in any sense underlined by the presentation  Senator Greenwood  has made tonight, it should be at leas*t instructive to this chamber that it should, whether by the means now available to it and by a greater and more sensitive approach to the discharge of the duties as it is now competent to discharge them or by devising alternative means by which the relations between this place and private citizens who may transgress the rights of this place or of journalists in this House who may in some way again transgress the rights, devise some formula by which these rights may be adequately investigated and properly determined. 
As I have said, I do not wish to go into the question of what happened in the case of  Mr Evringham;  I wish merely to go to the general proposition that this place is endowed with tremendous power and authority and honourable senators must by sensitive in their exercise of that power and authority, particularly where people do not have the rights that they have in courts of law to be heard with all the due protection of the law, the right of counsel, the right of defence and all the legal canons that surround the rights of those people in those places. We must be more than scrupulous in our approach to our duties. If  Mr Everingham's  case is some illustration of the imposition of such a duty or if the case I presented was an illustration of the same principle, let the Senate have regard to it and perhaps set about devising the proper machinery by which these positions can be avoided in the future. 

 Senator Dame NANCY BUTTFIELD (South Australia) (10.56)  -  I wish very briefly to support the remarks of  Senator Greenwood.  I think it is appropriate that I should inform the Senate of the measures I have taken in an attempt to persuade you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker  to give  Mr Everingham  a chance to defend himself by knowing of what he has been accused and what evidence has been given against him. I have received a very fair reception from both you,  Mr President,  and  Mr Speaker.  I am very grateful for the way in which both of you have heard my plea. I hope, as does  Senator Greenwood,  that you will be able to allow what I consider to be justice to prevail and permit  Mr Everingham  to defend himself against the charges which he does not at present know of. I feel that that would be the fair and proper thing to do. I am not in a position to judge whether his actions were right or wrong, but I do know that it is quite common for members of the Press to enter the offices of members of Parliament. The offices are open to anybody. I have walked right through the Prime Minister's office looking for someone and on not finding that person have turned around and walked out. I sympathise with anybody who is caught at the particular moment that he is walking out of an empty office. 
I feel that this is an unfortunate situation. I know that another journalist was caught coming out of an office with something in his hand and that he was deprived of his Press pass for 3 months. It seems to me to be very hard on  Mr Everingham  that he should have had his pass confiscated. I know that for many weeks he has been unable to find suitable employment. He is trained as a parliamentary journalist. It is obvious that if he is not allowed into the Press gallery he will not be able to practice the profession for which he is trained. It seems to me that a particularly harsh penalty has been imposed upon him. I hope that a reprimand will be considered to be a sufficient penalty. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the Deputy Prime Minister on assuming office promised to give ex-regular members of the armed forces the same assistance in education for retraining as was and is being given to former national servicemen? If such a promise was given, has it been honoured or is it a fact that many exregular servicemen are still awaiting educational assistance? Will the Minister make a statement on the actual and projected entitlement to educational training for former members of the forces? 
The Australian Democratic Labor 'Party has considered the Bill and the amendments proposed by  Senator Wright.  We have considered the first matter, which is the raising of the level of an amount for proposed works which will require reference to the Public Works Committee. We recognise that the amount must necesarily be somewhat arbitrary. Because of the rate of inflation it has been found desirable to increase the existing $750,000, and the Government has suggested $2m.  Senator Wright  has suggested doubling the original amount to SI. 5m. Whether  Senator Wright's  judgment is correct or whether the Government's judgment is correct is very difficult to determine, but prudence and wisdom would dictate that at present, in view of the burden of work on committees and in view of the level of inflation which apparently will continue to rise, the upper limit would appear to have many attractive features compared with the lower level. Otherwise, in a very short time a proliferation of references to the Public Works Committee will be cluttering up that Committee, requiring it to put aside major projects which otherwise should receive early attention. For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party is unable to support that part of the amendment which proposes to reduce the amount of $2m to $1.5m. 
The other matter, which is that capital works of this kind undertaken by statutory corporations should be referred to the Public Works Committee, is a very important matter. It opens a very wide field. It was my intention to speak on this whole matter of public corporations. I indicate now that I have had a developing concern about the expansion of public corporations, their proliferation in the community, more particularly their lack of accountability to the Parliament and the inability of Parliament to scrutinise their operations or to accept any particular responsibility for their day to day exercises. I had in mind taking specific action in this place to enable possibly a reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations of the overriding supervision by the Senate of public corporations, with a particular reference to one selected corporation for first investigation. That one would have to be determined. I have none in mind. This matter has attracted the attention and concern of the British Parliament, and Britain has a continuing committee which overlooks the operations of its statutory corporations. I understand that the practice is that one corporation is investigated by the committee in each session of the Parliament. The name of that corporation is not given in advance, but it is announced very shortly before the investigation. It is the practice to investigate it during the parliamentary session. 
We know that there has been a great development of the principle of the statutory corporation. It is, as it were, a halfway house between complete government control, ownership and operation and complete ownership in private hands. The figures for the development of statutory corporations over the years are very interesting. J happen to have these figures because, as I have said, I have had this other exercise in mind. At the moment 60 government instrumentalities might be described as statutory or public corporations. The definition of such a corporation is: 
A Commonwealth statutory corporation is a body corporate created by a Commonwealth statute, having a legal personality with perpetual succession and a common seal and the capacity to hold and dispose of real and personal property and to sue and be sued in its corporate name. 
Bodies falling within that definition in Australia today number about 60, and the historical development of them is of considerable interest. In the first decade of this century no such corporations were created; in the second decade 6 were created, in the third decade, one; in the fourth decade - the 1940s - '16; in the fifth decade - the 1950s- 13; in the sixth decade, 16; and in the seventh decade so far, 7. We are only in the year 1973 and already 7 additional statutory corporations have been created, which is almost half of the number created as a maximum number in any  previous  decade. 
 In Australia. Therefore it does appear as if this is a quickly developing and proliferating practice and that  we can  expect that the number of statutory corporations created by the end of this decade could exceed the 16 created in any previous optimum period and that at the end of the 1970s we may have 80, 90 or even 100 corporations because it is part of the policy of the Government to create such instrumentalities; and backed by the ordinary commercial development in our modern society and supported by Government policy towards that end, we could expect that this will be the position. In that case a great deal of the public commercial and operating life of Australia is going to pass into the hands of statutory corporations and a great deal will pass beyond the realm of the administration of the Public Service subject to the Parliament in the principle of ministerial responsibility. I am not criticising that; I am merely saying that therefore a very big segment of Australian life will not be subject to the same type of parliamentary discipline, scrutiny and control as is now the case in this Commonwealth and that therefore this Parliament should gear itself in some way to establish its own discipline, control and scrutiny of the operation of these corporations - and by whatever method that is achieved, it should be done quickly. 
A Senate select committee is usually an ad hoc committee set up to achieve a particular definitive purpose which, having achieved its purpose, then subsides and disappears. What we want is a continuing committee. 
That is what I had in mind, that there would be a reference of the statutory corporation for a continuing review by the appropriate standing committee of the Senate, which would be the Standing Committee on Finance and Government. That Committee currently has only one reference before it, that being a reference on federal estate duty which is I understand virtually completed. Therefore allowing for the other commitments of the honourable senator's on that Committee, they could give their time to this matter. I have in mind, as I said, to move such a reference and to ask the Senate to endorse it. I mention that although it is not altogether appropriate because I did intend to mention it at greater length on another and a specific occasion; but it does raise this matter which has been referred and embodied in the amendment moved by  Senator Wright.  The honourable senator is by this particular amendment rather anticipating what I consider should be acknowledged and developed as a general principle.  Senator 
Wright is saying now that the capital operations of a statutory corporation are subject to no parliamentary discipline and that whatever might be necessary or done in the wider general field of statutory corporations, at least in respect of their capital exercise, let this discipline be exercised. That is why, I presume,  Senator Wright  has been prompted to move this amendment. If we have in mind adoption of the general principle it would appear that there is a very good case for support for  Senator Wright  in this amendment. The only difficulty 1 see, and I think it would have to be brushed aside, is whether we can select just one area of a public corporation for this type of control while other areas are not subject to the same sort of scrutiny. But I do not think that this is a major objection; I think it can be lightly dismissed. 
Without prolonging unduly my contribution to this debate, since I said on an earlier occasion that I hoped to project the matter in much greater detail and to present it to honourable senators as a specific and definite proposition, so far as  Senator Wright's  amendment is relevant to the general proposition that I have in mind and which I will project later, the Democratic Labor Party supports the amendment. I expect the Government may find itself in a somewhat difficult position in accepting this amendment if it has at this stage a general view on parliamentary scrutiny of corporations. I think that the case is compelling and that the need is becoming urgent and that if this is a first step and may reasonably be taken, then I think we should not hesitate to take that step. That is why I trust that the Government in considering this proposition will be prepared to accept  Senator Wright's  amendment, as does the Democratic Labor Party, and I appeal to honourable senators to support the proposition. 
I think the concern which has been expressed by  Senator Poyser  at the level of work which is now imposed on Senate committees is relevant. It does bring into focus whether unduly an additional burden is now being imposed on the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Public Works by  Senator Wright's  amendment. I imagine that the additional work load which will be imposed by the scrutiny of the works of statutory corporations will not be at a level which would be greater than the relief which will be given to the Committee by raising the level of reference from $750,000 to $2m. If my proposition is correct there will be an equation of work. Undoubtedly the present rate will continue but probably it will not be increased and it may even be reduced. 
I think the virtual independence and immunity of public corporations is so important that we should predicate it at every opportunity, and this is one. While being sensible of the very valid proposition presented by  Senator Poyser,  as indicated at the second reading stage the Australian Democratic Labor Party still proposes to support the amendment moved by  Senator Wright.  Whatever our disposition is in relation to the paper which has been tabled for the scrutiny of the parliamentary committee system, it could be that a proposition such as this might persuade to an action and a process of rectification and adjustment which otherwise might be delayed. On all these grounds the DLP adheres to its point of view and it will support the amendment. 
-I listened with considerable interest to  Senator Davidson  and  Senator Mulvihill.  I think  Senator Mulvihills  speech was accompanied by a justifiable but somewhat sentimental approach to this whole question. We are discussing an extraordinarily important matter. It is not merely a matter of whether it is desirable that we should predicate in a particular way and mark out the definition of the Queen in relation to the nation of Australia; it is more than that. This question could be important because one could visualise a situation where, if matters are not done in constitutional form, perhaps at some time when some person is charged as was  Sir Roger  Casement, in order to establish his position he would go back to the treason laws applying in the reign of King Edward II. What we do here today may very well have a very wide and very important implication in the application of the law- and perhaps of the criminal law- in a particular case at some time in the future. 
It is not sufficient that we rest our attitude merely on a sentimental attachment or on the predication of Australian nationalism, however justifiable and defensible the taking of that attitude may be. Therefore I cast grave doubts on the constitutionality of the legislation which is now presented to this chamber. Those doubts are accompanied by a reference to the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act- that is the Act of the British Parliament to which the Australian Constitution is annexed as a schedule or a part- which constitutes the Commonwealth of Australia, to the intervening Statute of Westminster, to the Colonial Laws Validity Act, and to the Acts Interpretation Act. If on this occasion I consult copious notes I trust that the Senate will pardon me because we are speaking most specifically and I desire to be specific in this matter. 1 am sure the Senate will not mind if I make an unusual reference to more particular points which I have found here. 
No. This is a technical exercise and, candidly, [ feel some sympathy for the Minister for the Media who is handling this Bill because of the context in which I am going to present my propositions in this debate in which he has been kind enough to intervene. What has happened in relation to this measure is that the Bill came from the House of Representatives with the oath of allegiance expressed in a certain form. It used the words 'Queen Elizabeth II of Australia'. The point was legitimately taken in this chamber that that could not be a viable form because there was no Queen Elizabeth I of Australia. Therefore the words 'Queen of Australia' were inserted to give the proposition a reality in terms of the relationship of Australia with Queen Elizabeth II and, of course, Queen Elizabeth I. That amendment went back to the House of Representatives and has been rejected in that place. The House of Representatives has now presented a further amendment in which the other oath is forsaken in favour of one in which you swear an oath of allegiance to the Queen of Australia. My technical proposition is whether that form of oath of allegiance is constitutionally acceptable. It is in those terms that I present this argument. 
By the Royal Style and Titles Act 1953 the style and title of the Queen in relation to Australia is: 
Elizabeth the Second by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom, Australia and  Her  other Realms and Territories Queen, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith. 
In other words there is the personalisation of the monarchy, not the office of the monarch but the personalisation of the monarch herself or himself as the case may be. The Royal Style and Titles Bill 1973 which is now before this chamber will, when enacted, amend  Her  Majesty's style and title in relation to Australia to: 
Elizabeth the Second, by the Grace of God Queen of Australia and  Her  other Realms and Territories, Head of the Commonwealth. 
In other words again in that Bill there would be projected the personalisation of Her Majesty. The use of the phrase 'Queen of Australia', the term included in the amendment from the House of Representatives to the Bill before this chamber now, therefore is consistent with the style which we adopted with the enactment of the Royal Style and Titles Bill, but here there is no personalisation in regard to the monarchy. 
It should be noted that the preamble of The Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act, to which the actual Constitution is an annexure, states: 
Whereas the people of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland and Tasmania, humbly relying on the blessing of  Almightly  God, have agreed to unite in one indissoluble Federal Commonwealth under the Crown of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and under the Constitution hereby established . . . 
Now, 2 propositions are thereby presented. It is a Commonwealth established under the crown of the United Kingdom and it is subject to the Constitution thereby enacted. Those are 2 very important propositions on which we must keep our minds concentrated. The preamble to the Act contains a series of propositions and I want to refer to 2 of them. One is the dependence of the Federal Commonwealth under the Crown and the second is the Government of the Federal Commonwealth under the Constitution. Legislative expression in the body of the Act is given to the latter but not to the earlier of those 2 affirmations. 
Prior to the Constitution of Australia Act the Colonial Laws Validity Act of 1 865 applied to the then Australian colonies. The Colonial Laws Validity Act 1865, at Federation, applied to both the Federal Commonwealth and also to the Australian States. Section 2 of the Colonial Laws Validity Act provides that any colonial law repugnant to the provisions of any Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom extending to a colony to which such law may relate shall, to the extent of such repugnancy but not otherwise be absolutely void and inoperative. Since the Statute of Westminster in 1931 was adopted by the Commonwealth of Australia the Colonial Laws Validity Act has had no application to the Commonwealth but still has application to the States. On the other hand the Statute of Westminster has not enlarged the powers of the Commonwealth to the detriment of the powers of the States. Constitutional conventions have taken place since the enactment of the Statute of Westminster and they are referred to in the preamble to the Statute of Westminster, lt states: 
The Crown is the symbol of the true association of the members of the British Commonwealth of Nations, and as they are united by a common allegiance to the Crown it would be in accord with the established constitutional position of all the members of the Commonwealth in relation to one another that any alteration in the law touching the Succession to the Throne or the Royal Style and Title shall hereafter require the assent as well of the Parliament of all the Dominions as of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. 
The constitutional convention was therefore recognised by the Statute of Westminster that all members of the British Commonwealth should agree to any of the changes made in respect of the Royal Style and Titles. However there was an intervening conference in 1 952 of Prime Ministers of the British Commonwealth and it was resolved that: 
In the present stage of development of the British Commonwealth relationship, it would be in accord with the established constitutional position that each member country should use for its own purposes a form of the Royal Style and Titles which suits its own particular circumstances and retains a substantial element 'which is common to all '. 
It was further agreed that:  the procedure of prior consultation between the Governments of the British Commonwealth should be followed in future if occasion arose to propose a change in the form of the Royal Style and Titles used in any country of the British Commonwealth. 
That was only an agreement among Prime Ministers. Whether that was in any sense mandatory was a matter of debate and of difference of opinion. In fact it has been departed from. To my knowledge it has been departed from in this instance where I do not think there has been any consultation between Australia and other countries of the Commonwealth. However I am making no point of that because, as I said, that was a convention of Prime Ministers which may well have abandoned any prior agreement that there should be prior consultation. 
I turn now to the covering clauses of the Australian Constitution because my proposition is this: That the oath of allegiance must be an oath personalised to the British Sovereign, to the sovereign of the United Kingdom personalised by name, and that merely to make the oath of allegiance to the office of the Queen of Australia is something which this Parliament is not constitutionally competent to do. Covering clause 1 of the Constitution states: 
This Act may be cited as the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act. 
Covering clause 2 of that Act states that the Act is expressed to extend to the Queen's successors and it reads as follows: 
The provisions of this Act referring to the Queen shall extend to Her Majesty's heirs and successors in the Sovereignty of the United Kingdom. 
Those are the important words. In other words the Queenship of Australia that accrued to Her Majesty is a Queenship that accrues in the right of her sovereignty of the United Kingdom. Covering clause 2 of the Australian Constitution Act indicates, as do the other clauses, that this is all subject to the law of the Commonwealth of which that is now part and everything therefore must operate within the metes and bounds of that law. Covering clause 3 of the Constitution empowers the Queen, with the advice of the Privy Council, to declare by proclamation 
. a Federal Commonwealth under the name of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
Under covering clause 6 of the Constitution, the Statutory definition, it is mandatory that 
The Commomnwealth' shall mean the Commonwealth of Australia as established under this Act. 
In other words we are coming to the position where everything must be read in terms of the Act and subject to that Act, because what is recited in that Act, what is enacted in that Act, is the governing body of law in relation to the matter now before the Senate for decision. Section 15a of the Acts Interpretation Act, which is a Commonwealth Act, states: 
Every Act shall be read and construed subject to the Constitution, and so as not to exceed the legislative power of the Commonwealth, to the intent that where any enactment thereof would, but for this section, have been construed as being in excess of that power, it shall nevertheless be a valid enactment to the extent to which it is not in excess of that power. 
Section 17 of the Acts Interpretation Act dennes constitutional terms including, inter alia, 'the Commonwealth' and 'Australia'. Section 17 of the Acts Interpretation Act has been amended by the Acts Interpretation Act of 1973. By section 4 of the amending Act section 17 was amended, inter alia, by omitting those 2 phrases to which I referred and substituting in place of the definitions of 'the Commonwealth' and 'Australia' the following: 
Australia' or 'the Commonwealth' means the Commonwealth of Australia and, when used in a geographical sense, does not include an external Territory. 
In other words the propositions put forward so far to the Senate are that the Queen is the Queen of Australia in right and title of her Queenship of the United Kingdom; that any law that we enact here must be in terms of the law enacted in the Australian Constitution Act and the Australian Constitution. When we look into this we see that in attempting to create this new status of Queen of Australia to which allegiance must be sworn we are establishing a status which is not competent within the creating and enabling legislation. 
This matter is not altogether novel. It came up before and the then Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies,  had a certain approach to the whole question of the territorial reference. The Royal Style and Titles Bill 1973 and the Australian Citizenship Bill 1973 both propose to omit inter alia from the Queen's Titles reference to the United Kingdom. In 1953 when the Royal Style and Titles Act was amended by the then Menzies Government that Government thought it proper to put the question beyond doubt and to proceed as if the convention established by the Statute of Westminster still operated- that is the convention relating to consultation with other members of the Commonwealth.  Mr Menzies  made it plain that he thought there should have been that prior consultation. He said that he had no sympathy with the approach that the territorial reference in the royal title ought to be solely to the particular country represented, that is, in the case of Australia that  Her  Majesty should be described as 'Queen of Australia'.  Mr Menzies  took the view that such a territorial reference cut across the concept of a unity which he held to be essential. He strongly advocated that the better approach was to begin in the territorial reference by referring to the United Kingdom and then to refer to Australia in the case of Australia. 

 Mr Menzies gave his reasons, as he always did, quite explicitly and with a breadth of scholarship and historical interest which was so particular to him. He said that juristically speaking it would be fantastic to eliminate a reference to the United Kingdom because the plain truth is that  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second sits on the throne not because of some law of Australia but because of the law of the United Kingdom. He said that in the literal, legal sense the Queen is the Queen of Australia because she is Queen of the United Kingdom. 
I am very much indebted to  Senator Davidson  and to the solicitude of other honourable senators who may wish to participate in this debate.  Mr Menzies  added that in strict terms of law  Her  Majesty is our Queen because under the Act of Succession of the United Kingdom, as modified by the Abdication Act of 1 936, she is Queen of the United Kingdom. He also said that the Commonwealth of Australia does not have an Act of Succession of its own. That is a very important consideration because we are really attempting here to pass what is in effect a succession Act. We are swearing allegiance to the Queen of Australia and to her successors and heirs according to law. That is creating a succession which is really not competent within the confines of the Australian juridical system. 
That is true. The implications of section 8 of the Statute of Westminster, read together with the preamble of the Act- that is the Constitution Act- and the covering clause 2 of that Act, raise the constitutional question whether it is possible for Australia in these circumstances to evolve an Act of succession. That is why I say that this is very much more than a mere sentimental question or a desire by anybody in this chamber or in Australia to project an Australian image and the concept of Australian nationhood. 
I will continue this, if I may,  Senator. Thank  you all the same. The matter is not only a question of constitutional law; it is also a question of great historical significance. The Commonwealth Parliament is derived from Westminster. Even if the Act of Succession had not to be taken into consideration,  Mr Menzies  expressed himself in these terms:  to deny the first mention to the country that is the cradle of our sovereignty, the cradle of our system of parliamentary government and the cradle of our legal system would be to deny our own history. A country that denies its own history is in a bad way. 
That is not an argument that goes to legal logic; that is an argument again from sentiment. I do not necessarily propound that, although the sentiments are valid and quite defensible; you can understand their being expressed. 

 Dr Evatt was also heard on this matter, as one would have expected, he being a contemporary in the scene.  Dr Evatt  when speaking on the Royal Style and Titles Bill 1953 reminded the House of Representatives that in the preamble to the Statute of Westminster 193 1 there was a declaration that alterations of the law touching the succession to the throne or the royal style and title required the assent of the United Kingdom Parliament and the parliaments of all dominions. He stated: 
The Prime Minister was quite correct in pointing out that, so far as Australia is concerned, in both constitutional practice and constitutional law in the strict sense, the succession is determined by the Succession to the Throne of the United Kingdom. 
There you have the concurrence of 2 substantial legal opinions from 2 distinguished lawyersfrom  Sir Robert  Menzies and also from the Right Honourable  Dr Evatt.  In other words, they project the firm opinion that the entitlement of  Her  Majesty the Queen to the Queenship of Australia arises and stems from  Her  Queenship of the United Kingdom. Of course, the purport of this Bill is to dismiss that situation and merely to swear allegiance to the Queen of Australia.  Dr Evatt  also emphasised that the more important point was that the Statute of Westminster contained a declaration that any alteration of the royal style and titles should be assented to 'not by the Governments of Commonwealth countries, and that is why parliamentary assent to this measure is required '.  Dr Evatt  was of the opinion that there should have been consultation with other Commonwealth countries. I do not propound that proposition at this stage. Perhaps it might be a proposition somewhat passe in view of the changing character of the British Commonwealth. I do not make a point of that at all. 

 Dr Evatt also held that when the prerogative instrument was issued it should be issued on the advice of the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia.  Dr Evatt  urged that the position of the royal title which was common to all Commonwealth countries except India, that is, 
Elizabeth the Second, Head of the Commonwealth ', should be changed so that the Commonwealth referred to in the royal title should be called 'British Commonwealth'. He relied on the fact that in the Statute of Westminster the Commonwealth was described as the 'British Commonwealth of Nations'. The important part of that last reference is that  Dr Evatt  contemplated the inclusion of the words 'Elizabeth the Second'- a personalisation again of the monachy which he and  Mr Menzies  obviously considered as indispensible because, as I have said, the Queenship of Australia arises from the personal Queenship of the Queen as Queen of the United Kingdom. Inevitably,  Dr Evatt  believed that for a number of reasons the title ' British Commonwealth' should be used in such oaths and affirmations. 
At that stage we have a substantial body of distinguished legal opinion which would raise a great challenge, if it were here today, to the terms in which this legislation is framed. I think that the Senate should have regard to this. I think it is a matter that should be fundamentally considered by honourable senators because, as I have said, its long ranging implications could be extraordinarily serious; in a certain situation, what could be considered the loyalty or the allegiance of the adherence of any citizen, in terms of the oath of allegiance that he then swore, might come under strong legal scrutiny and perhaps strong legal criticism. I visualise that such circumstances could arise. 
I have one or two further propositions to put. The use of the phrase  'Her  heirs and successors according to law' is appropriate in an oath or affirmation by which the person swears or affirms allegiance to a monarch and her successors. It is also used in the oaths and affirmations of allegiance in the Second and Third Schedules to the former Citizenship Act. I remind honourable senators that the oath which members of this Parliament take is different from the oath which we are inviting other citizens to take. I really think that that is an undesirable situation. The affirmation in the Schedule to the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia states: 
I, A. B. do solemnly and sincerely affirm and declare that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, Her heirs and successors according to law. 
A footnote in the Schedule requires the name of the King or Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland for the time being to be substituted for Queen Victoria. Then there is an oath in the same terms. In other words, the oath that we take in this Parliament is an oath of personal allegiance to the Queen, and obviously it is in strict constitutional terms because, as I say, that is an oath to the Queen of Australia in the only terms in which constitutionally it may be taken or an affirmation may be made. Therefore, I think that lightly to dismiss this matter as of some sentimental attraction without examining the constitutional implications of it is extraordinarily dangerous. The use of the phrase  'Her  heirs and successors according to law' is appropriate in an oath or affirmation where we are dealing with succession, and where we are dealing with succession, of course, as I have said, Australia has no succession Act in that sense. There is no Act of Succession here; we rely on the British Act of Succession. It is not competent for this Parliament to create a succession in the terms in which it must be adopted and proclaimed to make it constitutionally and legally viable in this Commonwealth. Section 16 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901-1973 provides that references in any Act to the Sovereign reigning at the time of the passing of the Act shall, unless this contrary intention appears, be construed as references to the Sovereign for the time being. That covers the situation of allegiance to  Her  Majesty Queen Victoria and then her heirs and successors down to Queen Elizabeth II. 
Clause 2 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act, to which I have already refer-, red, reads: 
The provisions to this Act referring to the Queen shall extend to Her Majesty's heirs and successors in the sovereignty of the United Kingdom. 
Here again we get that firm proclamation of the only basis on which the sovereignty of the Queen in Australia can legally and constitutionally rest. It is in the right and title of her queenship, her sovereignty, of the United Kingdom. I know of this new insistence on the concept of Australian nationalism, which is so important and acceptable; nevertheless we cannot afford to disregard particularly the constitutional implications while we may be prepared- for the reasons which have been suggested- to lay aside the historical background. Therefore when the Senate insists, as  Senator Davidson  proposes, on the amendment as originally proposed and rejected by the House of Representatives, I submit, on the authorities which I have quoted and on the recitation of the history of the constitutional position, that the amendment reflects the constitutional position in the personalisation of the Queen in her right and title as sovereign of the United Kingdom. The amendment originally proposed by the Senate included the words 'Queen Elizabeth the Second, Queen of Australia'. It therefore meets the proposition which we project, that is, the queenship of Australia. It meets the constitutional demand that we accept, that is, that Queen Elizabeth is Queen of Australia in her right and title as Queen of the United Kingdom. 
For these reasons I think it is tremendously important that this amendment be accepted. I suggest that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who is the Minister at the table, in view of these rather technical propositions which have been propounded may feel that the matter requires further consideration. He may elect to take it back and have it further examined. For the reasons I and  Senator Davidson  have enunciated I think that the Senate must insist on the amendment as originally projected as fulfilling the constitutional and sentimental requirements of this nation. I think it is most important that honourable senators should give their minds to this amendment as a most serious proposition with implications which are, perhaps, beyond our concept to imagine at the moment and which in particular cases could have very grave and serious repercussions. I therefore indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party continues to insist on the amendment as originally proposed in this place. We reject the amendment which has come from the House of Representatives. 
I am now expounding the views of the Democratic Labor Party on the constitutional and legal position. This is the thing with which the Democratic Labor Party is concerned. The sentimental aspect is one on which we would agree with  Senator Mulvihill.  But it is the seriousness of the constitutional defects to which we draw attention. In relation to the renunciation of sovereignty, we support and adopt the arguments which have been propounded by  Senator Davidson.  For those reasons we reject the amendments which have come to this place from the House of Representatives. 
I am conscious of the difficulties that face the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  in such a technical field in which he is representing the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  and attempting to command an adequate assessment of the difficulties of this position. I am indebted to the Minister for his contribution to the debate. When this Bill originally came before this chamber the title by which the Queen was described for the purpose of allegiance was Queen Elizabeth the Second of Australia'. That was obviously wrong, because there was never a Queen Elizabeth the First of Australia. That is why the amendment was put in to read: 'Queen Elizabeth the Second, Queen of Australia'. The words 'Queen of were included, for otherwise it would have been a complete misnomer and misstatement. It was in that form that the Bill left the Senate. When the Bill originally came in the personalisation of the Queen was contained in the oath of affirmation as 'Queen Elizabeth the Second'. Now that it has come back, that title has been deleted, and the oath is now to be taken to  Queen of Australia '. 
I think the Minister for the Media is under a misapprehension for neither  Senator Davidson  nor I, and certainly no other senator on this side of the House, seeks to eliminate the words Queen of Australia'. We welcome the inclusion of those words. What we query is the technical situation as to whether there is not some constitutional invalidity in the non-reference to the queen as 'Queen Elizabeth the Second'. The point I attempted to make in my submission was this: The Queen is Queen of Australia only insofar as she is Queen of the United Kingdom. She derives the title 'Queen Elizabeth the Second ' from her monarchy in the United Kingdom. As I have said, I do not expect that my opinion on this will necessarily be accepted, but I have quoted, and I requote, the learned  Dr Evatt,  who said: 
The Prime Minister was quite correct in pointing out that so far as Australia is concerned in both constitutional practice and constitutional law in the strict sense the succession is determined by the succession to the throne of the United Kingdom. 
In other words, the learned doctor was there predicating that it is as Queen of the United Kingdom that the Queen becomes Queen of Australia. It is not necessary to insert the words of the United Kingdom' because in describing her as Queen Elizabeth the Second, ipso facto, she is Queen of the United Kingdom and Queen Elizabeth the Second of the United Kingdom. That is the proposition. I feel that the Minister is under misapprehension insofar as he thinks that anybody on this side of the chamber is opposed to the words 'Queen of Australia'. Our point is that the personalisation of the sovereign is Queen Elizabeth the Second' and then 'Queen of Australians the form in which the oath should be stated. We stress that. I think it is an important situation and for that reason I persist in my objection to the amendment as it has proceeded from the House of Representatives, and I persist in my adherence to the amendment as it was presented when the Bill was originally before this chamber, which involves 2 things: Firstly, the personalisation of the Queen, Elizabeth the Second and, secondly, the description of the further title ' Queen of Australia '. 
-That could be right. 
-There are most distinguished lawyers in the other place, but, significantly, when the Bill came from that place it was obviously, in spite of the distinguished lawyers there, in incorrect form, because, as I said, it included the form 'Queen Elizabeth the Second of Australia', which is a non-thing. There was never a Queen Elizabeth the First of Australia; therefore there could be no Queen Elizabeth the Second of Australia. I presume that was a correct proposition by us, but that escaped the notice of all the distinguished lawyers in the House of Representatives, if our proposition is correct. 
I am grateful to the honourable senator for coming in to bat at the other end of the wicket and I am grateful for his contribution. The proposition which we originally proposed and which we now restate and to which we adhere, that the form should be 'Queen Elizabeth the Second, Queen of Australia', to my mind resolves the constitutional doubt and predicates the affirmation of Queen Elizabeth the Second as Queen of Australia and therefore satisfies the growing national concern for an Australian national image and stature. Therefore I think there is every justification for adherence to our original proposition and for opposition to the amendment as it has proceeded from the House of Representatives. As we intend to persist with our amendment I would urge the Minister to think of further adjourning this matter and having it reconsidered in the light of the propositions that have been presented from this side of the chamber; but in any case I, and obviously  Senator Davidson  and those who support him in this proposition, will vote against the amendment as it has been presented by the Minister. 
I do not wish to prolong the debate but I do wish to impress one point on the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  The Minister says that in a spirit of compromise the Government propounded an alternative proposition. This is not an area for compromise. This is not a question in relation to which we can say that we will go this far or that far. It is a question of constitutional law and the constitutional situation. It is not a question of compromise. It is either probably right or probably wrong. 
I am speaking only on titles and not on renunciation; that is quite true. Therefore we should not concede this as being a matter of compromise any more than I believe that the Government was entitled to concede something as a matter of compromise. I know that some might say that this is a theoretical question. Its implications are never likely to be grave but I can think of cases in which it might arise. Earlier I suggested the case of  Sir Roger  Casement who was charged with treason. The charge was brought under a very old treason law dating back to the reign of Edward II, I think it was. I referred also to the case of William Joyce who was charged with treason during or after the last war. That case rested on a question of whether he was a naturalised British subject. One could conceive a situation in which some person may be charged with treason in some circumstance which involves a question of whether he is formally an Australian citizen and has taken the oath of allegiance. A constitutional point could be raised that the form of allegiance was constitutionally unavailable. That may provide a defence or, on the other hand, it may provide the basis of a prosecution that would not be justified. That is the type of situation I have in mind. Therefore this question cannot be easily dismissed as a matter of personal or party compromise. 
That is the type of compromise I am talking about. That is not the point. At least I am taking my stand on this. For the reasons I have indicated I will persist with it. I apologise to the Minister for attributing to him what should have been attributed to  Senator Davidson  and me. This matter is so important that if there is some doubt about it the Minister might well consider having it looked at again and perhaps reported upon by the advisory lawyers to the Minister. But if it is not re-examined, as I say, I propose to persist in my objection to the amendment and to support the proposition originally propounded by  Senator Davidson  in this chamber. 
Exclusively from the will of the people. But until that is done we have to comply with the law and the constitution as it stands. The proposition we have suggested here is that the Consitution and the law- the Acts Interpretation Act, Statute of Westminster and so onrequire that the Queen shall be referred to by her personal title as Queen Elizabeth the Second because it is due to the sovereignty of the United Kingdom that she sustains her title as Queen of Australia. We have no objection to the insertion of the words 'Queen of Australia '. But I think we should be perturbed that the Attorney-General has been prepared so lightly to brush aside compliance with the legal requisitions, supporting this only with the proposition that surely the authority for this title springs from the will of the Australian people. 
-There is no legal basis for it. The legal basis rests otherwise. It is very dangerous when the law can be lightly brushed aside in pursuance of some sort of a general idealistic statement which has no legal foundation. 
I only rise to protest at that. The suggestion that  Senator Greenwood  and I are in some anachronistic way and some archeological fashion devoting our minds, attentions and talents to the sustenance and maintenance of some ancient system of feudalism is, of course, quite inappropriate and quite inaccurate. All we require is that the law shall be obeyed and the one person we would have expected to observe the law rigorously and scrupulously would be the Attorney-General. Yet the Attorney-General in our submission has brushed aside the requirements of the law in pursuance of this general philosophic proposition that all power rises from the will of the Australian people. That may be so in the philosophic sense. In the legal and constitutional sense- in the Constitution as we are required to observe it- that does not happen, and that is the proposition we have propounded. 
I am indebted to  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Greenwood  for giving me an opportunity to say a few words on this matter. The interest manifested in this matter by Professor Loss is symptomatic of the interest which has been manifested by distinguished visiting academicians from other countries in the activities of the Parliament and the workings of its committee system. Only the other day the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control was given the benefit of the views of a distinguished academician from Canada. He was, I think, very interested in the Committee 's work and investigations. 
The subject of a proposed securities commission has a new significance in the light of 2 background situations. The first is the Constitutional Convention. It is obvious that matters of that character are going to be discussed in the constitutional context. The second, of course, is the more recent judgment of the High Court of Australia in the Concrete pipes case in which the corporation power of the Commonwealth first came under some element of scrutiny and in which there were some intimations from the Court that there may be an extensive power that can be utilised by the Commonwealth. In the light of that the approach to company legislation, apart from securities legislation, is emerging as a matter of very great importance. Therefore the contributions of gentlemen as distinguished as Professor Loss are of immense importance in the current Australian scene. We look forward to receiving the draft and having an opportunity to study it, because we do not have that opportunity. At that stage I hope that the matter will be considered by our Party and that a more extensive and detailed contribution will be made on the implications to be drawn from the comments, examination, recommendations and the suggestions which, no doubt, will be put forward by Professor Loss. I welcome the opportunity of participating, even in brief, in this short debate. 
-There is a small query I wish to raise with the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy).  I am wondering why attempts to commit any of the crimes referred to in clause 22 are not included in the recitation in Schedule 1. There may be an attempt to commit murder which is not accompanied by a physical assault or grievous bodily harm. I am wondering why attempts to perpetrate any of the crimes referred to are not included in the crimes which are embraced in Schedule 1. As far as I can see they are not. 
I still believe that the original intent obviously was to deal with property that was closely attached to the perpetration of the offence, having been obtained by the perpetrator as a direct consequence of the commission of the offence and being in his possession or control. I believe that that concept was almost germane to the section. It has now been omitted and I just query the wisdom of widening the clause as far as we have done. 
-My only comment is as to whether the clause has not been drawn too widely. I appreciate  Senator Greenwood's  concern, that it really is intended to deal with property or money in the physical possession of or physically attached in some way to or within the command of the malefactor, but the clause uses the term 'acquired by the person ... as a result of the offence'. That could well go to acquisition by process of law by devolution on succession, he being the author of the disaster that created the succession. Therefore, I am wondering whether the clause is not too widely drawn. Decisions of a probate court might have to be overridden by the provisions of this statute. Perhaps it might be wiser if the clause were more narrowly drawn to specify property which is in the control or in the possessionsomething of that nature- of the perpetrator of the offence at the time of the offence. Has the Minister any comment to make on that? 
I wish to ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  whether the word 'evidence' is used in the technical sense of evidence taken on oath as against evidence presented by way of information. I do not think it is used in the technical sense of an information, but does it encompass just facts, not being evidence on oath, that are supplied to the magistrate? 
-The national Budget is under serious challenge from the Opposition in this place as it was in another place. It is under challenge not purely as a financial and economic document- that is the subject of very grave and very relevant criticism- but because it reflects in a most serious manner a lack of political integrity on the part of the Government. Alternatively, it reflects gross political incompetence by those who framed it and those who framed the policies on which the Government went to the people. No allegation against the Government could be more serious than that it lacks political integrity. We all know the broad outline of the policies on which the Government went to the people, from whom it received a mandate. Those policies were stated explicitly and with specification, and they were placed one by one before the people who were asked for their support. 
I do not commence the few remarks I wish to make only with the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on behalf of his Party because we know that policy speeches essentially are political documents which are presented in general terms and in specific terms for adoption by the electorate. I commence my remarks by referring to the speech delivered by  His Excellency  the Governor-General on the advice of his Ministers at the opening of the Twenty-Eight Parliament. In that document the Government's program is spelt out in terms which are undeniable and which represent the program which the Government proposed to implement in this the Twenty-Eighth Parliament. Surely that is a document on which we can rely. That is a document which, in the most precise terms, reflects the political parliamentary program of the Government. When we read this document we find that in it there is virtually no mention or very little mention of the major problem that at that time confronted the nation. Everybody knew it confronted the nation. I refer to the problem of inflation. The previous Government knew it and the previous Government did take steps, however inadequate, to do something about it. 
But everybody in Australia knew that inflation was the crisis that faced Australia and everybody rested on the assurance of the Australian Labor Party in presenting its policies to the electorate that it was a problem that it could solve. The Labor Party indicated the ways in which it would be solved. But when we come to the political program of the Government as set out in the GovernorGeneral 's Speech, we find that this is the major reference to the great economic crisis that faced Australia, the depth of which is now becoming so manifest to everybody and is affecting so cruelly the poor people in the community as a result of the now belatedly applied policies of the Government: 
As part of a continuing and comprehensive light against inflation, the Government will establish prices justification machinery, involve the national Government in the field of consumer protection, establish a Parliamentary Standing Committee to review prices in key sectors, and strengthen the laws against restrictive trade practices. 
That seems to be the most specific reference to the major and critical problem that faced the Australian Government at that stage, and those are the only specific remedies that the Government indicated it intended to apply, as I read the document. It is a confidence trick on the Australian people that they should have been pursuaded that inflation was of such little moment that that was the only reference that the Government thought fit to incorporate in the speech presented to this Parliament as we approached our legislative responsibilities. That showed either a total lack of integrity on the part of the Government or total political incompetence in that the Government was not aware of the depth and seriousness of the problem and therefore the Government was not prepared to take any steps to meet it, other than those 3 steps which are mentioned in that document. 
Time went on, and the obvious remedies that should have been applied were not applied. What was the immediate political activity of the Government? Within a few days of the election a 2-man Ministry was constituted. It consisted of  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Barnard.  A whole series of actions were undertaken by the 2-man Ministry, which was really a denial of the democratic process. The actions undertaken by the 2-man ministry included things of such great moment as the returning of a passport to  Mr Burchett  and things of that nature. There was no attempt by that 2-man Administration to step in and handle the economic situation, which was a deepening cloud on the political and public horizon in Australia. The 2-man Administration did the things I mentioned, but the real problem was not tackled. So time went on and inflation became worse and worse. Economic remedies were not applied. 
There are certain remedies that can be applied. One of the great remedies, of course, is the fiscal remedy, which is the remedy through the Budget. The first step in tackling the type of inflation we have in Australia would be to effect a reduction in the field of public expenditure. But what did the Government do? We saw come into office a government which was totally inexperienced politically and which had all sorts of frustrations as a result of being out of office for 25 years. No member of the Government had any previous ministerial experience. Immediately the Ministry proliferated and it started to proliferate the growth and expansion of the Public Service. Immediately there were tremendous allocations of public funds for this increased expenditure and all the Ministers started to puruse their own particular departmental programs, all of which involved tremendous commitments of expenditure. It was obvious that at that stage no central discipline was being applied. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  had not been heard. The Prime Minister had not been heard. 
We heard all the strange philosophy which is embodied in the Governor-General's Speech, namely, that the welfare of Australia does not consist only of what one might call material prosperity; it consists of so many other things which are spelt out in glamorous and sentimental terms. No matter how good or how desirable those things are; if the basic prosperity of the nation is denied those things are absolutely worthless. Obviously there was a totally wrong order of priorities in the approach of the Government to the matters that required immediate governmental attention. That was the first grave mistake that the Government made. I refer to the failure of the central Prime Ministerial direction to control and discipline the Ministers, all of whom wanted to go on their departmental excursions and expand and build up their own ministries. They had ideas, and I suppose some credit should go to them for that, but against the background of what was developing in Australia that was a totally wrong and indefensible policy. Today we are getting the Dead Sea fruit of what was sown in those days and the consequences today are disastrous for the Australian people. That is the cold hard reality of the situation and everybody knows it. Every trade unionist knows it, every house owner and prospective house owner knows it, the worker knows it, the middle man knows it, the exporter knows it, we know it and every member of the Government knows it. 
The worst thing, of course, is that the Government, in allowing its program to develop in this way, is demonstrating its own lack of integrity or its gross political incompetence. Whichever of those reasons is selected as being responsible, it is obvious that the Australian people are now developing a very deep concern about where this nation is going. I am sure that honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber who are interjecting will have had my experience: Everywhere one goes today, in every part of Australia, people are worried, anxious and concerned. There are those who, due to the policies of the Government, face disemployment and they are wondering - (Government supporters interjecting)- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Durack)-  Order! 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  if honourable senators on the Government side would listen instead of speaking so much they would realise that the term I used was not unemployment; I said disemployment. By that I meant that people will be required to change their jobs because the effect of the Government's economic policies is going to constrict certain industries and require a re-allocation of labour.  Senator McAuliffe,  are you anxious? You do not mind a man being thrown out of his job and being compelled to get another job which requires retraining. Evidently that does not matter to you. That is a totally cynical attitude for any parliamentarian. I have so much regard for the worker that I think his job is most precious to him and I do not agree with anybody who says that it is immaterial if Joe Blogg has to change his job. It may be all that Joe Blogg has in the world. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder! If  Senator Byrne  was allowed to make his speech without interruption an opportunity to explain would be available. There is no substance to the point of order. There are far too many interjections. 
What the honourable senator has just said by way of explanation confirms what I said, that the honourable senator is not particularly dismayed if an employee loses his job. He can get rehabilitation and be retrained. 
-That may be. I stick by what I said. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder!  Senator McAuliffe,  I warned you once. You have been interjecting far too often. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I know that these things are unpalatable because they show in the Government a cynicism which is indefensible and deplorable. That is the thing that is worrying the Australian people. All these airy-fairy schemes which are now emerging are merely the figments of political imagination. The hard realities are having a disastrous effect on so many sections of the community. Belatedly, the Government, having failed to apply the necessary fiscal measures and in fact stimulating the condition of inflation by expanding expenditure in the public sector, has been forced to make dramatic alterations in its economic policy. That in itself was a complete departure from every indicator that the Government gave as to its intentions. The whole of Australia was taken on the toboggan. People were completely misled as to what would be the disposition and the activity of the Government. Let us take the 2 measures that have been introduced. Firstly, let us consider revaluation. There was no mention in this country of the prospects of revaluation until it was actually an accomplished thing. Of course, when revaluation occurs it must be done immediately and without notice. 
I am not arguing that at all, Although the merits of that action may very well be argued. I am saying that the Australian peo- ple apparently were the last to get any indication   it  revaluation was in the mind of the Govern- ment. I want to read from a statement made by the Treasurer to the Ministerial Meeting of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in Paris on 6 June. He spoke of inflation and said: 
For example, there are certain policy measures which can be helpful in the fight against inflation which primarily affect a country's external transactions. Where countries are experiencing inflation and at the same time are in strong balance of payments surplus, external action, such as an exchange rate revaluation, can not only help to restore a better balance in the external accounts of that country, but also can contribute to greater internal price stability. 
The first indication by the Australian Treasurer about the possibility of revaluation was given not in Australia, not in this Parliament, but at a meeting in Paris about 2 months before the occurrence of the event. There again is this concealment from the Australian people of the real intent and purpose of the Government which the Australian people will not tolerate for long. They will accept many things. They will accept a divergence in policy or the presentation of a contrary policy, but they will not take it when they have been misled or left under an illusion or false impression. The one thing that the Australian people will do is ensure that a government that comes before them for endorsement of its policies will operate within the terms of those policies. 
At the time of the election there was no mention by the Government, which presented itself as a centralist government, of any need to cooperate with the States or of any necessity that the Commonwealth would have to call others in aid in order to handle the economy. There was no mention of that. The Prime Minister went before the people saying that he could handle the situation. He could handle inflation and present this whole range of policies and nobody need worry. But the moment the situation developed what happens? Again I turn to what  Mr Crean  said in Paris. He said: 
Inflation cannot be tackled by a Central Government alone. In a Federal System, such as my own, it is necessary to have the co-operation of the various State Governments. 
M r Whitlam, in desperation, today has called in the aid of the State governments to help him and his Government out of the economic morass. 
This reminds me of the young boy who was accused of murdering his father and mother. Having been adjudged guilty by the jury he came before the judge and asked for leniency and clemency because he was an orphan. That precisely is the position of  Mr Whitlam.  Having done these irreparable economic wrongs to the Australian economy and the Australian people, he calls everybody in aid in order to assist the Government in its economic dilemma. That is not good enough and for that  Mr Whitlam  will have to answer to the people and for that the Australian people will pass judgment on him. That judgment may come much more quickly than the honourable gentleman thinks. 
I turn now to the next dramatic economic measure which  Mr Whitlam  has applied and that is the increase in interest rates. Let us consider the effect of this on housing. I refer to the speech delivered by the Governor-General, on the advice of the Government, at the opening of this Parliament. I would be grateful,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  if there was less interruption. This is what was said in the Governor-General 's Address at the opening of Parliament: 
The Government intends to provide valuable assistance to home-owners by reducing interest payment burdens. 
A few weeks after that announcement there has actually been an increase in interest rates. It will impose an intolerable interest burden because the bank rate will be altered and all other rates will follow. 
I know that honourable senators opposite have an advantage over me. They have sat in the Labor Party Caucus today, and it is possible that there an injunction was entered against the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in relation to the policy which he has announced. As I say, honourable senators opposite have an advantage over me on that matter because they sat in Caucus and heard the ultimate decision. If the Prime Minister and his Cabinet attempt to introduce the policy which has been suggested in the newspapers, it will be a complete and total violation of what was contained in the address which was presented to this chamber by the Governor-General on behalf of the Government. That again demonstrates the lack of integrity in this Government. 
It is a matter of very great seriousness that so soon after a general election- in the first Budgetthe Government is now vulnerable to these charges. I am sure that every honourable senator who sits on the Government benches today is himself suffering a qualm of political conscience at the fact that the promises which were given so enthusiastically have been so consistently and so earnestly denied. I can understand the volubility of honourable senators opposite; I can understand their concern because of the embarrassment which they must feel and the fact that they know that when they go back to the people in the electorates who supported them they will have to answer for the promises they made and now have broken. I did not make the promises; honourable senators opposite did. People say to me: 'What about the promises of the Government when it went before the electorate?' 
I do not hate the Labor Party, but I hate the total lack of integrity that is manifest in the Budget operation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Durack)-  I call  Senator Byrne. 
I am indebted to  Senator Cotton.  It is not easy to attempt to make a speech with such constant interruptions. These increased interest rates will have a serious effect on our manufacturing industries. They could have the effect of denying to secondary industry the capital money which is necessary for expansion. In the short term it may have some counter inflationary effect, but in the long term, when inflation might ultimately be brought under some measure of control, industries will find themselves not geared and not equipped for the expansion that legitimately, properly and logically should come. It is at that stage that the economic consequences of this policy, which was so belatedly, so quickly and so dramatically applied, will become tragically apparent. 
We find the same situation in the rural industries. I refer particularly to Queensland. Of course, Queensland has a particular problem. Queensland provides a great deal of the bulk of our export earnings in Australia. That might not be obvious to  Senator Poyser  from Victoria and he probably has not taken the trouble to investigate the matter. But Queensland's exports of beef, minerals, sugar and things like that create the great bulk of our export earnings. Certainly up to the present- almost to today- Victoria and other southern manufacturing States have imported from Queensland the materials which they fabricate in their secondary industries. 
Queensland in particular is affected by any upward movement in the valuation of the Australian dolar because it affects the prices at which Queensland can sell its commodities and it also affects the availability of markets. That is particularly serious in Queensland, and over the years many indicators have pointed up the consequence for Queensland industries of any change in export demand and export availability. 
A study of the unemployment in the export industries in the State of Queensland during the drought in the 1960s- in 1965-66 and, to a lesser extent, in 1968-69- indicates the principle that the vitality of export industry affects in a preeminent way Queensland's economic indicators. During the Victorian drought of 1968-69 which had an effect on employment in that State, the consequences were the equivalent of unemploment in the work force of 1.4 per cent, but when a similar drought hit Queensland the consequences were very much higher- the unemployment figure went as high as 3 per cent. Therefore, any movement in the export market particularly and deleteriously affects the State of Queensland. Therefore, it is all right to look at this revaluation of the Australian dollar, but I expect that  Senator McAuliffe-  other honourable senators opposite may disagree with me on many things- would be as concerned as I am about the economic consequences to Queensland and to Queensland's primary industries as a result of the revaluation of the Australian dollar. 
-That may well be. I do not think that the rest of Australia altogether appreciates the tremendous contribution that a State like Queensland makes to the gaining of our external balances which enable the import of goods which are fabaricated in secondary industries in the major States of Victoria and New South Wales. Nobody can look at the economic situation today without having some grave cause for concern. Nobody can look at the economic situation today without an even graver cause for concern because of the fact that at the present time there have been a loss of confidence in the ability of the Government to provide the right remedies or even to have an awareness that the remedies should be applied and to understand what the problem really is. 
-If the Australian Labor Party is leading, when the consequences of the Governments policy become apparent there will be a total reversal of the trend. That is almost inevitable. 
We made no such predictions, but that will be the inevitable consequences of the economic policies now being pursued by the Government. Today, every section of the Australian community has been antagonised by the Government. The Government is in confrontation with the medical profession, private schools, rural producers and the workers. The Government, by bad administration, by irresponsible administration and by a lack of sympathetic consideration, has antagonised almost every section of the Australian community. That is a tragically bad situation for a nation such as Australia. 
We were under the impression, from the protestations of the Government, that with the Government would come an era of co-operation, an era of industrial peace and an era of progress and prosperity, with inflation under control. Not one of those predictions has been honoured and not one of them has come true. What the future holds will be even more disastrous than what has happened in the immediate past. I hope that the Australian people, adverting to this Budget, to the election promises and to the parliamentary protestations about the program and performance of the Government, will very quickly gain an acute awareness of the Government in Canberra today and that when the opportunity arises they will seize that opportunity and, in view of the Government's performance, dismiss the Government as it deserves to be dismissed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement, reportedly made by  Mr Lloyd  Kempe of the University of Michigan at a meeting of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers in Detroit, that tests demonstrated the inability of typical high temperature-short time processing of canned foods to kill bacterial spores encased in food particles. 
Is this food processing method operated in Australia. 
Will the Minister immediately consult with State Ministers for Health as to the need for an urgent survey of the processes followed in the Australian canning industry. 
Will the Minister have his Department investigate the position in relation to imported canned goods coming from sources where the suspected process is operated. 
Will the Minister make a statement reassuring the Australian public, if such can be done, in the light of the actual position. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That 2 1 days after the passing of this resolution there be a call of the Senate for the purpose of considering the third reading of the Constitution Alteration (Prices and Incomes) Bill 1973. 
No, we do not speak of arrangements. We indicate our position and we make no bones about that. We hoped for a common proposal on prices and incomes as a package deal. But we consider that an adequate and proper control of inflation- so far as these powers are concerned- demands the use of both instruments, that is prices and incomes. If the Government is vested with the power it then rests within the discretion of the Government of the day whether it elects to use either power, both powers or neither power. 
The Government has come towards our proposal. Our proposal related to power over prices and incomes. The Government has not seen fit to support that proposal but on an understanding that it will present both heads, though separately, to the people at a referendum we are prepared to support the first part of the Government's proposal. 
I do not wish to go into the mathematics of it. That may be a reasonable mathematical calculation. I do not dispute the mathematics of the honourable senator. The point is that the 2 proposals which we wantedprices and incomes- are now being embodied in referenda proposals though in a slightly different form as separate heads. We wanted them as joint heads but what the Government now proposes is substantially in accord with the major concept of our proposal which is that both of these powers should be vested in the Government because the exercise of both is the only appropriate way in which, if these powers are to be exercised to control inflation, they can be properly exercised. 
I would love to help the honourable senator but it may be beyond my poor human capacity. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! Interjections will cease.  Senator Byrne  has the call. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I take it that the Special Minister of State will, on behalf of the Government, indicate that a Bill will be presented in the House of Representatives, I understand tomorrow - 
It will provide for a referendum on incomes only and it will be taken in conjuction with this Bill. Therefore there will be 2 referenda proposals which will be presented simultaneously and on which votes will be taken. On that basis we indicate that we will support this Bill as it goes through the various stages. We did have in mind - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator MarriottOrder! 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The Chair will preside, not  Senator Cant. 
-We did have in mind that we would withhold this declaration until before the third reading stage and then ask for the assurance to be given. However, on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party I accept the assurance now given by the Special Minister of State that the Government will introduce a Bill tomorrow to bring in this other head of referendum and that both Bills will go to a vote in the course of tomorrow's proceedings. On that basis I indicate that the Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill. 
-This matter is essentially and fundamentally quite a simple one. The Government introduced the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill for a referendum to be put to the people exclusively on the question of prices. The attitude of the Democratic Labor Party was that for a proper control of the economy, if a discipline of that kind was to be exercised, a prices-incomes discipline and control was necessary. We introduced into this place the Constitution Alteration (Prices and 
Incomes) Bill for a referendum to be put to the people on the question of prices and incomes. That Bill is still on the Senate notice paper. The Liberal-Country Party, of whom so many representatives have spoken today, has presented an implacable opposition to a discipline of either of those characters. They are against prices control and incomes control in the hands of the Federal Government. 
The impression has been created here that if a stand had been taken against the Government's Bill, the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill, the referendum would not have taken place and that any conferring of powers on the Commonwealth Government could not have taken place because no referendum Bill would have been carried. That is just not the position. No matter what happened in this chamber, if the Opposition succeeded in defeating in this place the Government's Bill for prices control only, it would have been re-introduced in 3 months time. The same pressures would have operated. It would have again been defeated here. The Government would then have been in a position to go to the Governor-General and ask for a referendum on prices alone. So all these protestations that by some process of opposition no referendum on anything would have been put to the people are totally incorrect. I am surprised that the impression has been given, particularly by those who are legally equipped, that such would have been the position because, under section 128 of the Constitution, the contrary is the position. The Liberal-Country Party is implacably opposed to any transfer of powers. 
Very well, against the centralisation of powers, but inevitably it would have had to face the position that the people were to be asked to give one power alone, and that is the power over prices. 
The attitude of the Democratic Labor Party is that if we are to have a proper, balanced and rational control of the economy by using these weapons it has to be a prices-incomes policy. I am staggered that, faced with the inevitability of one power only being given, the Liberal-Country Party did not say that if adequate powers are to be transferred let it be a balanced power over prices and incomes. I would have expected that, accepting the inevitability of one power only, they would have said: 'Let us at least have a balanced control '. I know that the philosophy of the Liberal Party has been that no power should be transferred and that, therefore, to transfer a second power would be worse than to transfer only one power. I presume that that is the policy of the Liberal-Country Party in relation to the Bill. 
Throughout the world- in America, in the United Kingdom and in other places where these powers have been given- almost without exception the dual power has been the one which has been exercised. I do not want to discuss the merits of the Bill, but world economists say that in the long term a prices-incomes control may not be successful but in the short term it could have a deflationary and holding effect. That may be the position. We make this point: If these powers are conferred it is within the political disposition of the Government of the day, subject to the Parliament, whether it exercises the power. With one voice the Opposition is against the conferring of the incomes power on the Commonwealth and then it says: 'If you give it, it will not be exercised'. If the Opposition thinks that the power will not be exercised it should have no objection to the power being conferred. That would appear to be the logic of the matter. I would say that that is the logic as it appears to me and the illogicality of the stand taken by the Liberal-Country Party. At this stage we do not want to discuss the merits and demerits of controls on prices and incomes. I agree with  Senator Marriott  that if the people are to be asked to make a decision on this matter- in view of what could happen, the speculation in the community and the untoward, indefensible and rapid increases in prices in anticipation of the vote on the referendum which might ultimately result in the control of prices- it. is important that the matter be dealt with by the Parliament and presented to the people of Australia quickly. 
The only question which then remains is the question of time. If the prices Bill had been rejected in this place 3 months would have had to elapse before it could be re-presented. From then on the referendum could take place immediately. The passage of the Bill will result in a deferment of 2 months. The only difference is one month. 
It is 2 months after the passage of the Bill before it can be presented to the people. That is all. It is an effective difference of one month. That being so, the bargain is that, for an effective difference of one month, we are getting a dual, rational and logical control of the instruments which may affect inflation as against a partial control which could be completely ineffective. The Democratic Labor Party hasput prices and incomes as a package deal. That is what we wanted. We think that that would have been the best- the people either take the lot or discard the lot. The Government was notprepared to go that distance. We consideredthatit was so important that both arms be availableto the Government, even at the risk, thatonemay be accepted and the other rejected,that if that was the best that the Government could do we were prepared to support a propositionthatit put prices and incomes as separate headsof power. That is the situation which is presentedto the Parliament now and which ultimately willbe presented to the people. 
I make no claims about this business thatwe put pressure on the Government or anything like that. We have tried to approach thismatter in the most rational and logical way, inthis national interest. I think that the solution which hasbeen offered now, althouth it may not be theone which was totally acceptable to us, is atleast reasonably acceptable to us and is acceptable to the Government, and it rests within thedisposition of the Australian people as to whetherthey confer on the national Parliament both powers, neither power or one power or the other. That will be the people's decision if the Bill is passed. We leave it to the good sense of the Australian people. We hope that the integrity ofthe Government is such that if it is -vested with these; powers it will elect to use them in the.interestsof the nation, as the circumstances demand. 
-I think it is to be regretted that the propositions which have been advanced by  Senator Greenwood  in relation to the motion now before the Chair, that this matter be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting, were not advanced by him on behalf of his Party on the motion that the debate be now adjourned. It was at that point of time that the Senate was being asked, in essence, to consider whether the matter was of sufficient urgency to be proceeded with immediately, or whether it could be allowed to stand aside. The motion moved on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party was quite clear. It was a matter of the highest urgency. One Opposition senator,  Senator Bonner,  saw fit to support us in that vote. But if  Senator Greenwood  had placed his proposition before the Senate on that motion, conceivably he may have persuaded other honourable senators one way or the other. 
This is a most important and urgent matter, and to say that even a week is not an undue delay in these circumstances is not a viable proposition. After all, this conflict is a perpetuation of the 6-Day War. On that occasion the whole of 2 nations went to war, and the war, in modern terms and with sophisticated weapons, was concluded in 6 days. It might take longer on this occasion. But we are not speaking in terms of weeks or months. We may be speaking in terms of hours as to the settlement or not of this conflict. Therefore, there was a particular note of urgency about the proposition which was advanced to the Senate by  Senator Kane  on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party. That motion should have been carried. It should have gone forward as a resolution from this Senate. With the matter coming before the United Nations Security Council, presided over by our own Australian Ambassador, it was of very great significance and could have been of very compelling significance. Unfortunately, this resolution does not now go forward. 
After all, only the other night the Senate unanimously passed a resolution to go to the United Nations on the question of the dissident intellectuals in the Soviet Union. That resolution went to the United Nations because we thought that was the forum in which the rights of those people could be protected and defended. Surely this is a matter that equally and with urgency could similarly have gone from this chamber to the international organisation. Obviously on that occasion we considered that a formal resolution from the upper chamber of the national Parliament would have some international effect on the participants in the discussion at the United Nations. Is it any different tonight, or is it not a fortiori more important that we should have sent a resolution from this chamber to the international body to fortify our Ambassador as he sits there as Chairman of the Security Council? Was it not of supreme importance? Now we have denied the opportunity to ourselves and to our Ambassador. It would have fortified him tremendously in his chairmanship of that particularly sensitive body in this tremendous conflict. 
Therefore, I am gravely disappointed that the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party did not see fit to support our proposition on this occasion, and I am equally disappointed that the Government saw fit to adjourn the matter. As notice of the motion was given yesterday, I think that it could have been easily possible to mobilise all the evidence that is available. As  Senator Kane  said, whatever may be the confusion that now rests in the conflict, certain things are inescapably established. There are the clear acts of aggression by the Arab nations against Israel. That was incontrovertible; that was the thing we were condemning. All the research in the world will obviously no more confute that than it would be possible to confute the unasked aggression by Japan at Pearl Harbour. That was something that could not be contradicted then or in history. Similarly, the aggression on this occasion cannot be contradicted. 
A week's adjournment cannot do anything to obviate or to excuse or to explain that. That matter was obviously clear. There was before the Senate the clearest evidence on which the Senate tonight could have made a definitive judgment, but it has elected not to do so. We can only hope that the delay by the Senate in doing this and bringing the matter on for debate next week will not have the unfortunate consequences that may now flow from this action. We hope anyhow, that next week when this matter comes on for debate we will get a resolution from the Senatethe one that we could and should have got tonight. 
The Democratic Labor Party is gravely concerned and bitterly disappointed that there was not sufficient sensitivity in this chamber to allow this proposition to go to a vote in order to assist this nation which is fighting for its existence against superior forces and the tremendous pressures which surround that small piece of territory in the Middle East. I hope that on the next occasion there will be unanimous support by the Senate for the resolution which tonight the Senate would not face up to and in respect of which the motion was defeated by a combination of the Government and the great majority- except one- of members of the Opposition. 
-I rise to speak in this debate for one or two particular purposes. The first purpose is because it has been suggested that what prompts the Government to present this proposed schedule of new sitting times is some intra-party consideration which is affecting Government members. As we of the Australian Democratic Labor Party are supporting this proposition, I want to make it quite clear that whether such a suggestion is founded or unfounded, that is not the consideration that is persuading us. I am sure that Government supporters would deny that it is the consideration prompting them. Certainly, it is not the con.sideraton prompting us. For some time we have been concerned at the intense burden and strain which is being imposed upon all members of the Senate, ministerial members and back bench members alike. 
In our Party particularly, it being a small party with a significant role in the Senate, the stresses and strains have been due to the additional burden of the demands of committee work, the great mass of legislation coming before the Parliament and an increasing interest and involvement of the electorate in political affairs. That is one of the new manifestations in our community. I think that members of all parties would accept that there is greater political interest today in the operation of the Parliament than we have seen for years. That necessarily is reflected in personal approaches and in correspondence. Those things are reflected in the burden of work that has to be assumed by honourable senators. I cannot understand why there should be any major objection to the proposal now before the Senate. 
We consider that the debates in the Senate should proceed with an availability of time that is adequate to handle the matters that properly come before the Senate. That is the first consideration. But we do not necessarily discharge that situation merely by extending the time or by having extended times of debate. The position may well depend upon the area of debate and the times within which the debate is permitted. If we start at 11 o'clock in the morning and work through until 1 1 o'clock at night and there is still business before the Senate, the chances are that from 10 o'clock onwards that night there will be all sorts of traumas and difficulties and that the placidity and relevance of argument may be lost completely in the sheer exacerbation that comes from exhaustion, from shortened tempers and other things that arise when the Senate sits very late at night. That is not the normal pattern of living of most Australians. The normal pattern is for a reasonably early retirement hour. That is contradicted completely in the traditional sitting hours df the Senate. 
If we were being substantially denied the opportunities for debate by a very severe limitation and restriction on sitting hours I should be opposed to the new proposals. The reduction of hours is quite small compared with the compensation that we gain from the rationality of the proposed sitting hours. I would presume to say that the amount of work that might rationally and effectively be discharged in the proposed sitting hours would be greater in quantum, in proportion and in quality than is now performed within the present sitting hours as they are determined under the Standing Orders. If by any chance a debate had to continue- for example, if it were a matter of some moment and had to be disposed of- with the concurrence of the Senate that could be accepted. Alternatively, if an adjournment debate took place, as we all concede there is a proper right - 
It may. But if there is to be an adjournment debate, I do not think it is a proper approach to it that we should hope that such debates can be circumscribed by the exhaustion of honourable senators. If it is a matter that is properly raised to be debated, then it should be debated at the right time, in the right atmosphere with the alertness of honourable senators and not in an atmosphere of mental and physical exhaustion. If an adjournment debate is to take place, it seems to me to be quite inappropriate that it should commence at 1 1 o'clock and go to 1 o'clock in the morning. It is very much more appropriate that it should commence at 7 o'clock and go until 9 o'clock. This is what will happen under this proposal, instead of us having these protracted debates which continue into the early hours of the morning if an adjournment debate should raise a matter of some controversy. 
I agree that the Standing Orders need a complete overhaul. They are no longer tempered to the modern parliament or to the modern social and political climate. But if we were to wait and allow the present sitting hours to continue until the Standing Orders had the complete review that is necessary, the sitting hours would not be altered at all. We must accept this as a temporary provision until the whole structure of the functioning of the Senate is looked at in the greatest detail and completely new proposals are brought in. I think it is in that spirit that this experimentation in sitting hours should be adopted and supported by honourable senators. 1 express my personal concern at the illness of the 2 Ministers who have not been with us for some time. We must recognise that under the Westminster system of Government the burdens on the members of the Executive are immeasurably greater than the burdens borne by members of the Executive under the presidential system of government. If we were to compare the Secretary of the Treasury in the United States with the Federal Treasurer in Canberra we would find that the Secretary of the Treasury in the United States is not a member of Congress. He has no constituency to look after. He does not appear on the floor of the House. He administers a department. He attends international conferences appropriate to his office and he negotiates generally in the control of the finances and the economy of the nation.  His  vis-a-vis in Australia represents a constituency. He must be in the House when it meets. He is there for question time. He presents his own legislation. He presents the annual Budget. He defends his legislation. He is required to answer questions and to be there at night when the motion is put for the adjournment of the 
House in case some matter appropriate to his Department arises. He administers his Department. He attends international conferences. I think that in the modern system we can expect that there will be constant health breakdowns of Ministers operating under the Westminster system unless some alternative method is found of relieving them of the multitude of duties and unless the pressure of their office is in some way eliminated. 
For those reasons the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the motion. We will always be prepared, if this experiment should not succeed and we discover that the hours are not appropriate, to adopt an alternative. We should, of course, be sufficiently elastic to accommodate ourselves to a new situation. We realise that in view of the legislative program of the Government it may be necessary at times to agree to extend the sitting hours by additional days within the sitting week or even by weeks. This is something the Senate has always been prepared to do. But I think the important consideration is: On the balance of advantages is this likely to enable legislation to go through this place more effectively considered, without any undue or protracted delay and without any undue physical demands on the energies and the bodies of honourable senators in this chamber? If these sitting hours effect those purposes then I think the experimentation is defensible and well worth while. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In the event that he has not seen it, I draw his attention to a report appearing in the newspaper, the 'Australian', today regarding the Prime Minister's forthcoming visit to the People's Republic of China. The lead-in paragraph states: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  is using his visit to China to push Advance Australia Fair as our now national anthem. 
The article goes on: 
But he's already sent word to the Chinese Government that he does not want God Save the Queen played on official occasions. 
Allowing for the comments of the Minister a few moments ago as to the rising Australian feeling for nationalism, I ask him whether he is not concerned about the release of this information on the day on which  Her  Majesty the Queen is, as the first component of the Australian Parliament, joining with the other 2 components, the Senate and the House of Representatives, in an official luncheon at Parliament House, Canberra? Would the Minister agree that perhaps some inquiry should be made as to the unfortunate timing of this release and that the Senate should express some concern that no reflection was made by the announcement of this matter in these terms on this day? 
-First of all I think we should express our appreciation to the Minister for the informative speeches which have been delivered on all the Bills. I also pay my tribute to  Senator Cotton  for his succinct but comprehensive analysis of the particular Bills which have informed me and, I am sure, informed all other members of the Senate of this very complex situation which has required parliamentary legislative attention at this historic moment. For in spite of the fact that the Minister is inclined to play down the historicity of this occasion, it is a historic moment when we have moved from the area of proclamations and declamations to the actual pragmatic implementation of the creation of a new nation. We realise that the accompanying complexities are many. The emergence of a new nation is a matter of great complexity and great sophistication. It must emerge and take its place forthwith in an international situation; it must be involved in international commerce: it must have a system of law and it must have a system of social relations internally and externally. All of these things must be provided for in this transposition. I think that the parliamentary draftsmen who in this somewhat unusual situation have, by their drafting, put into legislative form the ideas and sentiments of the Australian nation and the ideas and sentiments of the new nation of Papua New Guinea, also are deserving of our compliments and appreciation. 
It is important that we should advert at this stage to the fact that a nation like Papua New Guinea emerging on to the modern world stage cannot do so without continued assistance. This nation is in a sense our child. It is a child really of our creation and we cannot just throw it adrift now without keeping the hand of solicitude and protection upon it. In the areas which are canvassed in these Bills it becomes apparent that the continued interest and identification of Australia with Papua New Guinea is of very great importance and will be essential to the proper development and expansion of this new nation and to the emergence of this new country into its proper position in world affairs. The application of Jaw, for example, might appear to be a matter of some technical significance and no more. It is, of course, very much more than that because Papua New Guinea will have inherited the system of law which we follow, to which we are dedicated and of which we are so extremely proud. Therefore the immediate application of our laws within the indigenous and separate Papua New Guinea context will be of very great importance. It is interesting to see that views have already been expressed there as to the composition of the Bench and the areas from which those professionally qualified should be drawn. There is little doubt, of course, that they will not necessarily be drawn from this country but from other countries, as is stated in the Bill, which have a parallel system of law. In other words, they would be drawn from countries which have the system of the English common law. Therefore we could expect that, allowing for changes that inevitably will take place in any system of law in a different country, substantially the system of the English common law will persist there as it has persisted in the United States, and that the guidance, legal knowledge and expertise of Australia will continue to be available to that country, whether in a general sense or through particular practitioners who will move from our jurisdiction to take their places in judicial and professional positions in Papua New Guinea. 1 should be concerned if I thought that on the economic front Papua New Guinea was merely to be allowed to run adrift, because that could pose tremendous problems not only for that country but also for us. Therefore the creation of a central banking system and monetary control disciplines is essential for the economic viability of Papua New Guinea. In modern society it is impossible for a national unit to become viable and to operate effectively and efficiently in the interests of its people without the modern banking and economic disciplines. The expertise of the banking institutions of Australia- certainly the public banking institutions and no doubt the private institutions- has been made available and will continue to be made available to Papua New Guinea. 1 have not had the opportunity of reading the statement that was made and tabled in August by the Minister as to the consultation between the Commonwealth Bank and the banking authorities in Papua New Guinea on the emergence of the new banking structure, and I should be obliged if the Minister would be kind enough in his reply to indicate the extent to which there will be continuing consultation between the Australian banking institutions- the banking system- and the new banking system of Papua New Guinea so that the most modern banking techniques will continue to be made available. If by any chance, due to a lack of knowledge, a lack of ability, a lack of experience, the emerging economy of Papua New Guinea should find itself in a position of economic collapse that would be a tragedy for that nation. It would expose it with all its vulnerability to all sorts of international pressures and ultimately could pose a matter of very great delicacy and even danger for this country. Therefore, quite apart from our solicitude for Papua New Guinea, and particularly at this point of time, we have a certain national vested interest that Papua New Guinea, as it emerges, should be a nation in the full sense of the term economically strong and founded on a proper application of the necessary modern techniques in every area of life to enable it to operate and function efficiently in the interests of its people and to take its place in world affairs, and more particularly to take its place in this area of the world where both it and we have such a common and enduring interest. 
Australia, of course, is one of the most highly developed countries, technically, in the world in all areas of life and perhaps it is therefore fortunate for Papua New Guinea that this body of knowledge will continue to be made available. I have little doubt that it will continue to be made available generously and at all times and continually and that it will be a repository of wisdom, experience and knowledge on which Papua New Guinea will draw. I would hate to think that at any stage for any reason that should be denied or should not be given other than with the greatest generosity and liberality. 
For those reasons I think that at this stage the Senate should register its warm appreciation of the fact that the emergence of Papua New Guinea is moving into the condition where very practical steps are being taken, where the actual organs of government are being created and where with a nice display of prudence and gradualism the institutions are being created. Temporary provisions will enable the law to be applied as they desire it to be applied. The banking system will, in due course, operate as an independent banking system. In the meantime intermediate provisions are being made. These things show that there is tremendous wisdom behind the whole of the exercise of the creation of the new nation. Therefore, it gives every promise that independence should be accompanied by tremendous successes. I know that there has been criticism in international bodies and throughout the world as to the Australian performance in relation to Papua New Guinea. I have never been one who has had anything but a certain sense of pride for what we have done in that area. 
Let us look at the history of Australia. I think that it is worth recording at this time. Australia was discovered in 1770 or thereabouts. Up until the middle of the 19th century, about 1858, in whole or in part Australia was a series of penal colonies. It was only 40 years after that that we federated for the first time into a Commonwealth and became a nation. Then, 14 years after that we were involved in a world war in which 60,000 young men from this very small nation died. We also gave a great deal of our hardly won treasure which was not very much at that time. After that war we were saddled with the burden of repatriation and paying for the war. We battled through that period in spite of other setbacks of natural origin- droughts, and things of that nature. We had not emerged from that condition when we found ourselves embroiled in the world depression which started about 1929. We battled on through the depression with thousands of our people unemployed for years and with family and personal disasters spilling over the whole face of the country. We had not recovered from the depression when we found ourselves involved in the Second World War. Again, we gave our manpower, womanpower and our treasure in the interests of world freedom and order. That is the history of Australia. 
Coincident with that we helped to develop Papua New Guinea to the point it is at today. I think that we have not a great deal for which we have to apologise. There are things that we could have done and perhaps we could have done more. But I think that it is a matter for tremendous pride that in that time, with those setbacks, we created a nation of our own, one of the wealthiest nations of its size in the world and in the process helped to establish the nation of Papua New Guinea to which independence is now coming with the aid and support that we have been able to give it. I put those remarks on record at this time as being my own personal assessment of our record in relation to this nation. I wish this new nation well and I wish it God speed. I think that we can assure it from this 
Parliament that it will always enjoy our friendship, solicitude and support. Between us, we can make it one of the great emerging nations of the world. 
-On behalf of  Senator Little  1 give notice that on Tuesday 6 November he will ask leave to introduce a Bill to amend the National Health Act 1953-1972. 

 -Mr President, I appreciate  Senator Brown  's gesture. Perhaps it was appropriate. Points of view have been placed by the mover of the amendment on behalf of the Opposition and by  Senator Murphy  on behalf of the Government. In relation to the determination of this matter, I speak for the other Party which has a significant position in the Senate. I am indebted to  Senator Brown.  I think he is assisting the Senate in ceding to me as he did. I express my appreciation. It appears to me that this debate seems to emerge as a clash between what are considered to be the obligations, duties and responsibilities of the various parties in this chamber. The Government has introduced a Bill. I shall comment only briefly upon the substance of the Bill. The Government considers that it has a right and a duty to present this Bill which, if passed by the Senate, will be presented in another place. The Government also considers that it has a right to ensure the passage through this chamber of the Bill as speedily as possible, for purposes which it considers good and sufficient. On the other hand, the 
Opposition considers that the Bill is of such moment and of such tremendous import that it has a similiar right and duty to ensure that the Bill receives the maximum investigation and the maximum scrutiny. That view is shared by the Democratic Labor Party. The Opposition considers that the Bill is so fundamental in its character it should become law only after a complete examination by the upper chamber of the Parliament, in which it has been introduced. They are the 2 positions which are taken in this chamber today by the contending parties to the Bill. 
It is now common knowledge that never has a Parliament in Australia been faced, in such a short time, with such an overwhelming mass of legislation which trespasses into almost every field of Australian life. I shall not refer to particular Bills. When one looks at the areas in which this Government, by legislation, is having some impact, it is revealing to find how fundamental the alterations must be in the structure of society which are being effected by these legislative processes. For example, important legislation has been introduced in the field of divorce and law reform generally- matters requiring detailed and technical scrutiny. Legislation of a major character involving virtually a complete economic reorientation of Australian life has been introduced. A major Bill has been presented in relation to industrial relations. Amendments have been sought to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Great matters in relation to social welfare have also been coming before this Parliament. Legislation is projected, or is now being canvassed, relating to the control, ownership and direction of our national resources. None of these measures could be considered of a minor character. All are of a major character. All are fundamental. All have been brought forward in a very short period. It is the boast of the Government, in its enthusiasm, that it has done more in so many months than other governments did in an equal number of years. I cannot find it in my heart to blame the Government for that boast. 
I can recall that in the first 2 months of administration of the present Government, when  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Barnard  were the only members of the Executive Council and therefore occupied all the ministries, many major matters of an administrative and even a quasi-legislative character were effected- 14, 1 think, in numberof great consequence to the nation. That set the tempo of the approach of the Government. But it is a matter of very great question whether the enthusiasm, even the excitement and, if I may use the term, the hysteria of the Government should be matched by a failure on the part of the Senate to give the necessary scrutiny to this mass of legislation which is coming forward. Therefore, I make no apologies. There comes a time when the Senate owes a duty to the nation to ensure that the nation's interests will be preserved and protected in these matters which are now of such fundamental consequence. This Bill is a Bill of that character. Two major Bills are already on the Senate notice paper. It is worth while referring to 3 or 4 Bills which we already have to consider. I refer to the Trade Practices Bill and the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill. The second Bill is of great constitutional significance and consequence. It will have to receive the technical attention of those senators who are qualified to deal with it, quite apart from other considerations. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I had spoken for some short time on the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood  to the motion proposed by  Senator Murphy  that the resumption of the debate on the second reading of the Trade Practices Bill be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting,  Senator Greenwood  having moved that the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the first sitting day in the year 1974. I indicated on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party that we were supporting that amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood,  and I indicated at that point many of the reasons which persuade us to the course of action which I have announced on behalf of the Party. I was reciting the very heavy legislative program which has been presented by the Government and still faces consideration by this chamber. 
If we look at the notice paper we find that there are 43 Bills awaiting consideration, and when we look at the content of many of those Bills we find that they are of great importance and of fundamental significance. They are Bills which in many cases affect the whole structure of some area of Australian life, whether it be our social life, our economic life, or perhaps our whole legal system. If it is the function of the Senate to consider matters such as these and if these Bills are of this tremendous importance the Senate must be given adequate time to consider them without being subject to the charge, merely by asking for such time, that we are unduly delaying or in some way frustrating the will or the intentions of the Government. The legislative program of the Government is of such a magnitude that perhaps it has not been equalled. I do not go into the merits or demerits of that program at this time. I merely point out that the Government has announced the creation of a very great number of boards, advisory committees, research groups, and the appointment of individual advisers - 
-Yes. They have assisted the Ministers of various departments, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Government in bringing forward ideas- some sort of think tanks- which constitute the basis in many cases of the legislative program. I do not at this stage criticise the Government for that. I think that the proliferation of these bodies may be undue but, nevertheless, the end result is that the Government has now formulated an intense legislative program which is being channelled through to this chamber. There has been no increase in the number of senators in this chamber. With the additional duties imposed on us in other directions, to which I will refer, the proper consideration of this very heavy legislative program becomes a practical parliamentary impossibility. I suggest that the Senate would be failing in its duty and would be recreant to the very purpose for which it was created if it attempted with undue haste to handle vital elements of this legislative program without proper consideration, proper assessment and proper scrutiny. That is the basis of the attitude which is taken by the Democratic Labor Party and by the official Opposition in relation to the Trade Practices Bill. 
The Democratic Labor Party, of course, sees a need for the introduction of legislation in the field of trade practices, in the field of unfair commercial dealings, in the field of mergers and in relation to all of those matters which are covered by the provisions of the Bill now before the chamber. I do not deny that there is great virtue in the Bill, but that is not sufficient reason to justify the passage of the Bill through this chamber with the haste with which it is proposed. We say that this Bill is of such importance and of such significance that it must not only be canvassed by this chamber with due regard for its consequences and its implications but also it must be given the opportunity of the closest analysis by those in the community who will be affected by it- the commercial interests, the consumers and those who theoretically would examine the consequences of a matter of this kind in the field of comparative economic and social legislationwith a view to pointing out as advisers to the Government and to members of Parliament generally what are the possible consequences of this very great intrusion into the ordinary processes, both commercial and otherwise, in Australian life. 
Let us have no doubt that the intrusion of legislation of this character will constitute a major intrusion into the processes of law and of commercial operation. Without going into the details of the Bill, which would be beyond my competence in the course of this debate, the Bill does impinge upon the processes of contract law, it impinges on the processes of commercial dealings in a major way, and it impinges on the processes and operation of the common law, although only in a circumscribed field of the total implications of the measure. Just how vast the ultimate implications may be, just what consequences it may have in other areas of life which I have not canvassed in that very short recitation, nobody can guess. This chamber should not pass legislation of this significance on some sort of informed or uninformed guess. 
Yes, of course.  Senator Greenwood  uses the expression 'on the face of it' and that is as high as we can put it at this stage, because of the limited scrutiny we have been able to give this legislation at this stage. On the face of it, the legislation has tremendous consequences, tremendous implications. I think it is owing to the community at large and to those who will be affected by it commercially that those consequences at least should be before this chamber and before this Parliament when this Bill is finally passed. It is owing to those whom this legislation purports to protect- the consumersthat their welfare is looked after and that the consequences of this legislation to them should be before this chamber when the Bill finally finds its passage through the Parliament of Australia. Therefore if we have sought to delay for some months this measure which we are discussing it is because it is the type of measure, perhaps above all measures which have been introduced in the Senate in recent times, which would attract such an attitude as has now been stated by the Democratic Labor Party. 
I think some point should be made in relation to the function of the Senate. Under the Constitution the Senate has a particular function. Although it may have been constituted as a States House, it has assumed a most important role as the House of review. That the Senate is conscious of that responsibility is exemplified by the emergence of a series of Senate committees of various characters over the past few years. I refer to standing committees, select committees and estimates committees. The work burden that now rests on the Senate, at its own will and by its own creation, is enormous. But it is now a particular function of the Senate that the closest scrutiny be given to all operations within the public administration, so far as it is within the competence of this chamber. The Senate's function is not merely willy nilly and without proper scrutiny and observation to ratify the legislative program of the Government no matter who may be in government. 
I speak for a Party that was not identified with the previous Government and is not identified with this Government. If one looks at our voting record one sees that on many occasions we supported propositions and legislation put forward by the previous Government. We have in this session supported propositions and legislation put forward by the present Government. That is the function of our Party in this chamber. We have always considered that our prime duty and responsibility was adequately to scrutinise legislation and administrative acts and, having done that, then to vote accordingly and to express what we think is the will of the Australian people in our vote in the Senate. But, as I say, our Party also has a positive contribution to make, as have all honourable senators and all parties in this chamber, not merely to ratify, or reject for that matter, the legislation of the Government, but by its own motions and by its own private Bills to present its own program and its suggestions as to the things of value that should be considered and should be carried into operation in the community. 
For example, today  Senator Wright  introduced a matter of urgency which enabled discussion of an industrial situation that has developed in Tasmania. That discussion took some hours but it was a contribution by the Opposition- it did not emanate from the Government-to draw attention to a matter of great consequence. Today on behalf of  Senator Little  of the Democratic Labor Party I gave notice of a motion to introduce a Bill to amend the National Health Act. In other words, the contribution which the Opposition Parties make in this chamber is not merely to consider Government legislation. We have other duties; we have other responsibilities; we have other contributions to make. Therefore, when a matter of such great importance as this Bill comes before the chamber we are entitled to say that it is of such consequence that, in view of our other duties, we require proper time to consider it, and I think the Australian public would agree. As this Bill will affect so many areas of Australian life it is important that its full implications be studied at this stage. 
-The Democratic Labor Party was not identified with the previous Government and it is not identified with this Government. It is no argument,  Senator Poyser,  that the matter has been going on for years and that nothing adequate has been done about it, if that statement is correct. I do not challenge it, nor do I contradict it or accept it. It is not our responsibility because it was not at our instance that legislation was delayed or not presented. The mere fact that a previous government may have been in default of its responsibility- I do not say that it was- is no entitlement to this chamber to rectify the matter by precipitate consideration of legislation of such vast consequences, even if that was the situation. We feel that this Bill is of immense consequence to the community. We feel that we have an obligation to have canvassed not only public opinion but also public commercial opinion, public industrial opinion, public economic opinion, academic opinion and the opinions of those who would wish in some way to make their contribution to establishing a position which would enable the most probably effective legislation to be introduced. 
We say that it would be impossible to achieve that purpose within the time at our disposal if this Bill were to be considered according to the time schedule of the Government. Therefore, we support the motion for the consideration of this matter on a day early in the session in the first part of next year. In that time everybody will have an opportunity to consider this legislation adequately. Is this Bill introduced now purely as an anti-inflationary measure? The Government, of course, must accept a large measure of responsibility for the inflationary situation that has been allowed to get out of hand due to its failure to impose the necessary disciplines sufficiently quickly to avoid the necessity for the crisis legislation that has now to be introduced. This Bill goes far beyond the mere handling of the present inflation. It deals with such important and significant matters as mergers, monopolisation, exclusive dealing, resale price maintenance and price discrimination. All those are matters of very grave consequence. For example, the matter of mergers is one which touches the whole corporation structure and the whole ebb and flow of the operations of public companies in Australia. Surely that is of tremendous consequence. Surely those matters must be considered. Therefore we say that we expect that the Government would concede the wisdom of our position. 
If the Government is earnest, as I think it is, about the necessity for this Bill and rethinks the matter it will realise that if a Bill which has consequences of this kind is to be introduced and is to be viable and effective when it becomes law, there must be time to give it proper and total scrutiny. We have seen statutes enacted over the years, particularly Income Tax Acts, which are challenged from time to time. All sorts of manoeuvres become apparent and can be taken advantage of to bypass the legislation. There is little doubt that if this Bill goes through and becomes law there will be an attempt to bypass it by some techniques of avoidance. We must try to avoid that situation arising. I am sure that some honourable senators on the Government side would not wish that to be the position. One cannot bring down legislation and avoid that type of situation if it is put through without proper care, scrutiny and consideration. The Senate can only do its best. We can try to equate the performance here with the performance of the House of Representatives. Though we have half the number of members we can do our best. But we would be failing in our duty if on a matter of this consequence we did not say: 'Pause. Let us have a look at this and let the nation have a look at it too'. 
We did not have 5 years. This is the Government's Bill. Obviously  Senator Poyser  does not understand that this Bill incorporates principles which are in many ways totally divergent and contradictory of provisions in any other Bill. Some of them are new. It is a Bill which must be looked at in isolation and not in relation to a previous Bill which may be reenacted. This Bill represents a totally different concept in this field of maintenance and control of prices and trade practices. This is a completely different proposition from any other legislation. Therefore, if  Senator Poyser  thinks that this matter has been under scrutiny for 5 years he shows a total unawareness of the history of the matter and of the contents of this measure to which I am directing my remarks tonight. The Democratic Labor Party always tries to act with a degree of prudence, restraint and wisdom. I do not make that claim self-consciously or unctuously, but we have been known to ask the Senate to pause from time to time to consider an important matter. We do it again on this occasion. 
We think that if the Government pauses and reconsiders this matter, and gives the opportunity for this Bill to be looked at with more care and in more detail and scrutinised by those in the community who will be affected by it, a much better Bill may well be presented in the early part of next year. This would be our hope. If the Government does not choose to do that I am sure that in the intervening few months the Democratic Labor Party and the official Oppositionthe Liberal Party and Country Party- will discover things in this Bill which should be altered, amended, abandoned or improved. There is little doubt about that. The people of Australia will be grateful to us for asking the Government to pause for a few months. 
That is the argument of emotion. It means, in other words, that the Government has allowed a certain crisis to develop and now asks to be extracted from that position by the precipitate consideration of legislation. 
If  Senator Mulvihill  would apply his mind to this Bill and not to another Bill relating to a referendum I am sure that the debate would be much more relevant. The Democratic Labor Party appeals to the Government to see the wisdom of the suggested deferment of this legislation until early next year. I am sure that the Government, upon consideration, will realise the wisdom of this course. I am sure also that the commercial community and the consuming community of Australia will see the wisdom of the course and, when the Bill comes back for consideration, will see that the best course, as suggested by the Democratic Labor Party, the Liberal Party and the Country Party, is adopted. For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party supports the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood. 
-On behalf of  Senator Kane  I ask for leave of the Senate to present an amendment to order of the day No. 2 1 which relates to hostilities in the Middle East and to which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  was addressing himself when the debate was adjourned. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party has given this matter a great deal of attention and investigation, and certain facts have been presented to it on behalf of those who are affected by the provisions of the Bill. The question at issue, first of all, is the extent to which this matter in the Australian Capital Territory should be put into a different category from the position which would arise in relation to the resumption of land by the Commonwealth in the right of the Crown lying within the sovereignty of a State. The position in the States would be different because section 5 1 of the Constitution requires the acquisition to be made on just terms. It has been held in the High Court in the case of Teori Tau v Commonwealth that the power of resumption by the Commonwealth does not stem from section 51 and the appropriate placitum under that section but from section 122 of the Constitution. 
I have grave doubt whether I should find that an authority on the subject. I think it could be said that the fact that there is such a discrimination is highly undesirable. As this discrimination is implicitly embodied in this legislation it is a matter of grave concern to the Senate that we should perpetuate such a system. We have had occasion many times in this place over the years since my re-election to this chamber to participate in what might be called the normalisation of the Australian Capital Territory; that is, in trying to provide a system of law and to provide an administrative system which would be in harmony with that which applies in other parts of the Commonwealth, whether in the Commonwealth Territories or in the States. We have seen many actions taken in this place and we have seen the imposition of particular types of duty so that this separation, this differentation, between the Australian Capital Territory and the States should be minimised. We have always considered that a highly desirable process in the progress towards what I call the normalisation of this particular section of Australia. Yet implicit in this legislation is an attempt to perpetuate what is a very gross discrimination. It is one which puts the Commonwealth, in right of the Crown, in a particularly favourable and advantageous position in relation to its administration of the Australian Capital Territory as against a citizen who lives and owns land in any other part of the Commonwealth. 
I know that there is a natural concern, particularly in these days of rising land prices, the exploitation of land and a tremendous capital accretion in the value of land, by governments to make land available to the public at large at a reasonable price. It would appear that the Bill which is now before the Senate is in terms of this solicitude, concern and philosophy. But it is not sufficient that, in order to propound such a body of ideas, one should be prepared to discriminate against or perpetuate group or individual unjustices. If a situation which requires rectification is in existence the rectification should be done in general terms and not in circumstances which will operate in a discriminatory fashion against those who happen to be affected by it because there is a current problem in this area. That is a very bad system of legislation. It is one which, to my knowledge, has not been followed in any of the legislation which has come before this Parliament. I remember that there was an attempt years ago to amend the estate duty legislation to provide that there should be retrospectivity in its provisions to exclude certain people who had been affected adversely by the then law. That effort did not succeed. Therefore, to select a group of people in this community who can be adversely affected by the proposed law when their rights are already, in one case, in the process of litigation and, in other cases, where the Commonwealth itself has, as far as I have been able to ascertain, by its own laches been instrumental in delaying the acquisition of and payment of compensation for property is to discriminate against these people. To ask them to accept the harshness of the proposed law is, in my opinion, indefensible. 
There are people in this community whose families have held land for many years. To give an illustration of the type of situation that has arisen and without mentioning names I will take a case at large in which land is proposed to be acquired by the Commonwealth. In this case Commonwealth officers visited the owner of the land towards the end of 1971 and advised him that resumption would take place. On 15 Septemberabout 5 days later- a letter was received from the Department of the Interior confirming the visit. On 24 September 1971 the owner replied to the letter stating that he was prepared to negotiate. On 9 March 1972 he submitted a valuation. On 26 September of the same year he received a notice to treat under the Act. On 30 November 1972 the property was gazetted for resumption. On 28 March of this year the owner submitted on the prescribed form a formal application for compensation under the Act. On 28 June this year the Department of Services and Property advised him officially that the claim had been accepted for determination. 
Those negotiations went on for 2 years or more after the Commonwealth Government first put the shadow of resumption upon this property. In the midst of them this legislation was introduced which gravely imperils and even destroys the rights which people would have enjoyed under the existing law to compensation under the terms that then applied. If the Commonwealth has been, as its own instance, responsible for delays or if the processes were so cumbersome that it was impossible to have the proceedings finalised within that time, I think it must accept the responsibility and that it should not deny to the person whose land it intends to resume the rights he would have enjoyed under the existing law. Therefore, both for the reason which  Senator Withers  advanced that in one case there is litigation actually in being and rights are still in the process of determination and because of the series of other cases where the quantum of compensation is still a matter for negotiation and consideration and where certain formal steps have taken place over a number of years, it does not appear just or proper that the Commonwealth should intervene by way of this legislation and truncate, deny or circumscribe rights. 
I believe, in any case, that compensation should be on just terms in terms of the Constitution as it would apply to property within the States. If, because of the terms of the Constitution, the Commonwealth is not bound by that in law, I think it is certainly bound by it in equity. 
Again in the processes of normalisation, I do not think the Commonwealth is entitled to place resumptions in the Australian Capital Territory on a basis that is different from those applying in the States merely because constitutionally it has the power to do so. There is no obligation on the Commonwealth to compensate other than on just terms; in other words, it may compensate in the Federal Territories on the same terms as it is required to compensate in the States. I certainly think that is an option which it should exercise in the proper way. This is a most important principle. I think that on reflection the Government will see fit to reconsider its attitude to this matter. This is a matter of fundamental justice. It is a matter which, if the whole situation is not reviewed, could result in very grave inequities to the people concerned. 
For those reasons and because we think it is highly undesirable that one area of Australia, because it happens to come under Commonwealth jurisdiction and finds itself exempt from some other constitutional requirement, should be able to have a discriminatory administrative policy in this respect, the Australian Democratic Labor Party will oppose the legislation and vote against it. If the legislation is rejected in this chamber, we hope that the Commonwealth will reconsider the matter and come to terms with those whose properties are already the subject of compensation discussions and those involved in the other matter and will negotiate on the proper terms in the light of what I would call the principles of equity that should prevail irrespective of the constitutional technicalities. In my opinion the Commonwealth is not entitled to rely on those technicalities. For those reasons the Democratic Labor Party will oppose the Bill and will support the attitude taken by the official Opposition. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party adopts the same attitude in relation to the proposal now presented to the Committee by  Senator Wriedt. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-I congratulate the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on its report which, whilst it is in a short compass, is very embracing in the matters which it canvasses and in the recommendations which it makes. My comments are directed to Chapter 3- The Repatriation Act, paragraph 4, which relates to the onus of proof. I am intrigued by the nature of the evidence given to the Committee in relation to this heading of investigation. This paragraph of the report of the Committee recites the opinion of the Repatriation Department in justifying the present method of approach to the operation of the onus of proof section of the Act. I have no doubt that the evidence given by the Department was an objective presentation of its assessment as to how the section operates. 
In many of the cases which have come to my notice I have been concerned about whether in fact the spirit of the section was being complied with although the technicalities of the section appeared to be complied with. When a claim for a benefit is made evidence does not have to be submitted at that stage. Apparently the Department has available to it the records of the exserviceman or ex-servicewoman concerned, and on that the Department makes its decision. The applicant may be asked to give medical evidence in rebuttal of the decision or in support of the claim. Technically he or she is not asked in the initial stages to present medical evidence, but as a matter of fact and as a matter of practical operation he or she is carrying an onus which I feel, in the spirit of the section, he or she is not required to do. In many cases which have come to my notice I have felt that the spirit of the Act was being avoided. I know that this section is an extremely difficult one to operate. I know that it is the function of the Repatriation Commission and of the tribunals to consider objectively claims and to give benefits on the merits of the case and on the facts as they are presented and as they are assessed. Nevertheless, there is a tendency to require subconsciously an onus to be carried by the applicant. I have never been able to convince myself that the onus is not unduly imposed and is, to that extent, a circumvention of the spirit of the statute which quite clearly and without any qualification or equivocation places the onus elsewhere. 
Therefore, I would have been happier if the report had recited in this chapter what it recited in another chapter. The Committee actually looked at a number of cases and physically inspected the files of a number of applicants so that it could establish, from an investigation of particular cases, whether a certain situation existed. The number of that chapter escapes my memory for the moment. I would like to have seen in chapter 3 a reference to a similiar type of investigation conducted along this line of inquiry as to whether, on the flow of a particular case, an onus was being subconsciously placed on the applicant which, in the spirit of the Act and in the technicalities of the drafting of the Act, he or she was not required to carry. Therefore I rise at this stage to give  Senator Brown,  who chaired so successfully the initial stages of the investigation and who was subsequently appointed as  Chairman,  an opportunity when the debate is resumed to inform the Senate further as to the type of investigation which the Committee conducted in this area and whether from any examination of case histories conducted this conclusion which, on the face of it, appears to me to be merely a recital of the section of the Act and the opinion of the Department as to how the section is being operated, was reached. To my mind, that is not conclusive and cannot satisfy me that the Act, in its spirit, is being observed as I think each honourable senator has so often indicated that he expects the section to be observed. 
For those reasons I rise to alert members of the Committee of the fact that I would welcome their giving some attention to this factor so that when the debate is resumed they may be able to indicate the nature, extent and depth of their investigations in this area and reassure the Senate that the matter received their scrutiny and that on their assessment, not so much on the opinion of the Department, as is recited in the chapter by an extract from the submission of the Department, they are satisfied that the spirit of the Act is being observed. 
-I think it is important that this matter be resolved and resolved quickly. On the last occasion on which I spoke on this matter I put a proposal to the Senate and  Senator Murphy  put a proposal to the Senate. Ultimately the 2 propositions emerged as a single proposition. Obviously one of the difficulties which is presenting itself to honourable senators is the fact that if a joint sitting of both Houses were held in some way the Senate may submerge its dignity lose its independence and, in the vote that is subsequently taken, be overwhelmed by the House of Representatives. I think that is a very artificial reason for resisting the proposition put forward by  Senator Murphy.  This is a matter of concern not just to one House of the Parliament but to both Houses of the Parliament. Surely the 2 Houses could meet on this occasion. I know that constitutionally there is only one situation in which a joint sitting of both Houses is provided for. But this would not be a joint sitting in the constitutional sense. It would be merely the 2 Houses meeting together for a common purpose to determine a matter of great national importance. 
To those honourable senators who feel that in some way the dignity of the Senate is going to be trespassed upon or that in some way its opportunities are going to be submerged I foreshadow an amendment that I propose to move to  Senator Murphy's  motion. I will move it formally when the opportunity arises. It relates to paragraph (b) of  Senator Murphy's  motion, which states that a joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives should be convened to determine the matter. As I have said, I see no objection to that happening, but there are some honourable senators who have some objection to the motion in that form. Therefore I will propose that the following words be substituted for the words contained in paragraph  (b)  of  Senator Murphy's  motion: 
A meeting of all federal parliamentarians be convened in Parliament House to determine the matter. 
In other words we would not meet as 2 Houses meeting together; we would meet in what might be called a collegium of elected representatives in the Federal Parliament, as an electoral college, to determine this matter once and for all. That, I feel, should reassure the honourable senators who, to my mind, have an oversensitive regard for the position of the Senate on this occasion. I suppose there would be nobody who, on other occasions, has protected the rights and dignities of the Senate more than I have or who has defended them more enthusiastically than I have. But to try and propound that proposition in this circumstance is I think completely artificial and totally indefensible. I feel that if my form of words were adopted and the elected members of the national Parliament were to meet, as it were, in one great plebescite, in a collegium, in an assembly of elected persons to determine this matter and the identity of the 2 Houses was submerged in the totality it would overcome even the most sensitive resistence of those who feel very strongly about this matter. I will not pursue the matter any further at this stage beyond saying that I agree that all members of Parliament should get together on this issue. I have no objection to the 2 Houses meeting in the terms of  Senator Murphy's  proposal. For the benefit of those honourable senators objecting to an assembly in those terms and in that form I will propound my alternative proposition. Apart from that I agree with paragraphs (A) and (c) of  Senator Murphy's  motion. I do hope that this matter will be quickly, effectively and satisfactorily resolved. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact, as claimed in 'The Australian' of 1 8 October 1973, that the 'Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  is using his visit to China to push Advance Australia Fair as our new arnhem' and that 'he's already sent word to the Chinese Government that he does not want God Save the Queen played on official occasions. He has asked for Advance Australia Fair when anthems are played'. 
Does the Prime Minister consider that the release of the information, on the day on which Her Majesty the Queen is attending an official luncheon at Parliament House, is at least a grave breach of good taste. 
Who was responsible for the unfortunate timing of the release of the Prime Minister's statement. 
-I take up, firstly, the item which has been discussed by  Senator Wright  more particularly and to which reference has been made by  Senator Turnbull.  Evidently in this matter the appropriate Estimates Committee has asked for certain information in regard to the purchase of this work of art and the Estimates Committee so far is not satisfied that adequate information has been supplied. The Estimates Committees were established for the very purpose of penetrating in depth the parliamentary apropriations. In that sense an Estimates Committee is not merely a hand or a limb of the Senate; it is the Senate itself virtually, sitting in another way. Therefore the Senate has asked for this information to be supplied in respect of a very major sum. I think we must rely upon the judgment of the Estimates Committee that that information is material to what it considers to be the exercise of a fair judgment on the amount of the appropriation. 
As this matter is now raised in this way in the Senate due to the presence of this Bill, I think it is appropriate that the Senate should stand behind the Estimates Committee and should ask that that information be supplied. The approval of the appropriation on this item should be deferred until the Senate itself is satisfied that the procedures followed were adequate, in view of the amount of money involved and the purpose to which it was to be devoted. I think until that position is resolved to the satisfaction of the Senate, the Senate should not be a party to the passage of this item in the Supply Bill. It is important, of course, that the Supply Bill go through. Nevertheless, the Senate also must insist upon observing its duties and responsibilities to investigate these matters in depth. If the Senate makes a request that the item in this Bill be deferred until the information is supplied, that is a matter which then would be considered by the House of Representatives and by the Government. I think the Senate is entitled to the information. There will be adequate opportunity for the information to be collated, if it is not already being collated, and to be supplied. Then the Senate will be able finally to pass its judgement on the adequacy of the arrangements that were made, their defensibility, the amount of the appropriation and whether the expenditure in these circumstances was justified. 
That is the very purpose of the new procedures which have been adopted in the Senate, namely, to question an item such as this. If the request of the Committee which has not been formulated is disregarded, this is a challenge to the very nature, purpose and existence of the Estimates Committees. If we were to stand by and see such a request lightly disregarded then I think the Committees might as well go out of existence. Since their inception the Estimates Committees have been in a major degree not irritating but penetrating in their examinations. They have never attempted to harass. They have tried to discharge their duties objectively and quietly and, I think, efficiently. This is an occasion when they have followed the same line and have found, apparently, a wall, if not of resistance at least of non-co-operation. In those circumstances we feel that the suggestion made by  Senator Wright  is one that might well be accepted by the Government. Perhaps it would defer the consideration of this Bill with a view to awaiting the supply of the information rather than, our, by request, seeking the deferment of this item and the parliamentary procedures that follow. I commend that attitude to the Government. 
I address myself to another matter namely, the extraordinary burden of work that is being imposed on the Senate due to the legislative program of the Government. Perhaps in the history of Australia we have never seen such a plethora of legislation and proposed legislation as has been presented to the Senate and is in contemplation in the future. I see on the Senate notice paper that there are 37 Bills at present. At the moment I do not have a copy of the House of Representatives notice paper before me, but there are numerous Bills on it. Of course, they do not represent the end of the Government's legislative program for this session. The numerical weight of the Bills in itself would be disconcerting, but when we look at the nature of the legislation, when we see the fundamental character of the matters which are contemplated in the legislation and the vast and almost unimaginable consequences that can flow from it, we realise the tremendous responsibility that is now reposed in this place. I mention only a few of the Bills to indicate the deep concern that must be felt by this chamber and by all honourable senators at the position which now faces them. 
I take a number of Bills just at large out of the business sheets of the Senate and the House of Representatives. There are Bills such as the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, which is a Bill of very great consequence because it purports to determine a very vexed constitutional position. It has as wide an implication as to the sovereignty of the States, and the geographical area of that sovereignty, as it does of the Commonwealth. As a House whose function and the purpose of whose genesis was to protect the States, this Senate has a particular responsibility in relation to this Bill. It is only one of a series of Bills which have similar far reaching consequences. The Senate must be given adequate time to discuss that Bill. 
We have also the Trade Practices Bill which, in its commercial implications, is very wide and far reaching. It is a Bill which again must demand, if we have any sense of responsibility, the attention of the Senate with time for recollection and study. The Bill has already been put aside and is to come up for debate on the first sitting day next year. I understand that the Government has reintroduced the Bill and it will come again to this chamber and again the Senate will be faced with trying to analyse its contents and assessing its implications in a very short space of time. We have the projected National Health Bill which again will radically change the whole structure of the national health scheme operating in Australia at the present time. The Conciliation and Arbitration Bill was an enormous Bill, and again it has wide repercussions in the whole field of trade unionism and in the relations between the trade unions, industry and commerce. We have the Schools Commission Bill which contemplates the establishment of a Schools Commission and which fundamentally alters the structure of the whole education system in Australia. 
Finally we have Bills of the character, the weight and the importance of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill, which go to the very heart and core of the whole commercial and economic structure of Australia and in which there are not only vast and wide philosophical differences but also very vast differences in the interpretation, both economic and financial, which honourable senators in all parties may place upon those Bills. I have taken only four or five illustrations to demonstrate not only the sheer numbers of the Bills but also the mass, importance and wide implications of them. It is not proper in these circumstances that a government, however enthusiastic and whatever its program may be, should attempt to persuade this legislation through the Parliament in this manner. 
Speaking now for my own Party, we have at this time a determinant vote in this chamber because of the numerical disposition of honourable senators on the Government and nonGovernment side. The Australian Democratic Labor Party sits as a cross-bench party. Because we have that position we carry all the responsibilities that go with it. We do not have a substantial staff structure, and for us to attempt to pass definitive and final judgment on legislation of this character without a proper and adequate study on our part and, more importantly, without the presentation to us of those arguments and considerations that would come and should come from outside this place from those who more properly, more adequately and more relevantly than we can interpret what are the overtones, the shades and the implications of the legislation, would be totally irresponsible. 
I know that any action by this chamber which in any way results in the impeding of a Bill, whether it is by the rejection of a Bill, the adjournment of a Bill, the deferment of a Bill, or the reference of a Bill to one of the committees which we in this place have particularly established to look at legislation- particularly legislation of a major character- is interpreted, as it were, as harassment by the Senate and merely putting a road block across the progress of the legislative and political program of the Government. That is not the position. So far as we are concerned, we attempt and have always attemptedI think our record will show this- to analyse legislation on its merits. Sometimes we have sought to amend it. We have supported amendments. We have rejected legislation in the hands of the previous Government. We have rejected legislation in the hands of this Government. We have amended or attempted to amend legislation in the hands of either Party in government. For that matter, we have supported amendments as they have come from one side or the other of the House. 
That has been our program. That has been our policy. It has been our attitude and performance in this place. We do not intend to depart from it. I can say on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party that we do not propose to allow ourselves as a party to be dragooned into taking this tremendous responsibility and making these tremendous, far reaching and sometimes historic decisions unless we have adequate opportunity, a proper opportunity, to seek such advice of a technical nature as we have to get from outside from those who can advise us on the legislation on which we are asked to pass a final judgment. Therefore I say to the Government on behalf of the Party that it is asking too much of this chamber, too much of this Parliament, and certainly too much of the five of us who sit here. 
We would be recreant to our responsibilities if for any personal purpose or from sheer exhaustion we were prepared to stand by and allow this mass of legislation to go through without challenge where challenge should be mounted, without examinations where examination is necessary and without assessment where assessment is called for. I mention those things to the Government because if the Government is to continue with this mass production of legislation, whatever its excitement or enthusiasm may be, it cannot possibly be equated by the administrative and physical resources of this chamber or of honourable senators. Therefore, Australia will be presented with legislation which fundamentally changes the whole structure of many areas of our society. Those whose reponsibility it is to see that if such things are to take place they take place not merely with the concurrence of the Parliament but also with the full awareness of Parliament, and every member in it, of what is being done. That can happen only if proper time is given to study the legislation and to make a proper assessment of it. 
I have here the statistical summary of the Bills which were presented in the Senate for the period of sitting from 27 February 1973 to 8 June 1 973. Some 1 10 bills were either introduced in this chamber or received from the House of Representatives and considered here. The great bulk of them was passed, some were deferred and some were amended not to the satisfaction of the other place. All the activitities of this chamber in the past few years has been one of intense examination of the propositions that have been put before it. That was the case when the chamber was in the hands of the previous Government. Once the committee system was introduced in this place, we got a program of examination which the Senate had not witnessed before. Nobody was more enthusiastic about it than were the present members of the Government when they were in Opposition. Nobody saw the need for this type of thing more than did the members of the Australian Labor Party when they were the official Opposition. The legislative program then was not as heavy. As a matter of fact,  Senator Murphy  was one of those who, with others, proposed the committee system and who gave it his personal and Party support. As a result of this, the committee system was introduced. 
Therefore, the attitude of the Senate over the last few years when the Australian Labor Party was in Opposition, the Liberal and Country parties were in Government and members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party were sitting where they are now, has been to undertake intense examination of the legislative and administrative processes of government. For our part, we are not going to depart from that now. We do not care how the Government attempts to crowd upon us or upon the community this great mass of legislation. We cannot possibly, with any sense of responsibility, stand by and allow this to happen without some action on our part. Therefore, we merely alert the Government to this: Its legislation will have to come through with some restraint and with proper time for consideration. If it is necessary for us at any time to take action either to impede the Bill, to refer a Bill or to adjourn consideration of a Bill we do not accept that that is some sort of subtle attempt to frustrate the intentions of the Government. It is an open and clear prerogative of this chamber to examine those things and it is a clear responsibility of every senator to ensure that these examinations take place. Therefore, I commend to the Government the thoughts that I have expressed. I hope that some restraint will be exercised by the Government and some opinion will be brought to bear within its numbers that particularly the more fundamental Bills, those which change so many of the fundamental structures of our society, shall be given adequate time for debate and deliberation in this chamber. I hope that the Government will take notice of the considerations that I have put forward. 
-A number of propositions in relation to this matter are now before the Senate or are projected. Some have been put before us on earlier occasions. One was that there should be a joint sitting of the 2 Houses to determine the matter. That is the resolution primarily before the Senate now. To that  Senator Prowse  has moved an amendment and  Senator Wright  has in contemplation a Bill which will follow the ordinary legislative procedure. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Cant)- Senator, I  understand that you have spoken previously on this matter. 
I was wondering whether I had spoken about it on the adjournment debate or some other debate and not substantially on the resolution. I was under the impression that I had spoken on some interlocutory proceeding. If that is not so, I have no right to speak now, except that I could address myself to the amendment. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I am advised by the  Clerk  that you have spoken previously on this matter. 
On the motion or on the amendment? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- After the amendment was moved. 
-Did I specify to what I spoke? Am I entitled now to speak? 
That is a practice which has been followed here. 
I am wondering whether I embraced both in my speech. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- My advice is that you spoke after the amendment had been moved and it is taken that you have spoken to both. 
Thank you. If I project an amendment which may come up, I could speak to it at that stage, I take it? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Yes. 
Thank you. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The question is 'that the words proposed to be left out be left out', as proposed by  Senator Prowse  's amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I move: 
That the words proposed to be inserted be omitted and in lieu thereof the following words be inserted: 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  That is the question before the Chair to which  Senator Byrne  is proposing an amendment. I call  Senator Byrne. 
I move: 
That the words proposed to be inserted be omitted and in lieu thereof the following words be inserted: is of the opinion that an assembly of all members of the Federal Parliament be convened forthwith within Parliament House, to determine by vote of such assembly the site of the new and permanent parliament house. ' 
This might appear to be casuistry but it is of very real significance. Both  Senator Marriott  and  Senator Lawrie  raised a certain point, namely, that the projected formula for a joint sitting of both Houses is a formula that has existence and legality within the Constitution and is available in certain situations for certain purposes. After a double dissolution a joint sitting of the Houses may be convened if the rejected Bill is again presented. That is a constitutional situation. When this matter was debated before  Senator Cavanagh  was prominent in that debate and took that very point, that a joint sitting of both Houses was not a desirable thing. My recollection is that he said that the Senate as a House would be swamped and overborne by the House of Representatives which has a greater number of members and that therefore in a joint sitting that House could overwhelm this House. My proposition is that we should take- and this is a term the meaning of which the honourable senators on the Government side would know readily- a plebiscite of members whether they are members of the House of Representatives or honourable senators in this chamber. All of us should meet as a college, as an assembly of elected representatives to the Federal Parliament, irrespective of and divorced from our membership of either House, to decide by resolution at that common convocation where in our opinion, should be the site of the national Parliament so assembled in assembly- on Camp Hill, Capital Hill or elsewhere. 
I know that, to use a colloquialism, that may be considered by many honourable senators to be hair-splitting. But it does appear to me, firstly, that it does not import into this suggestion a type of meeting that is contemplated in the Constitution and only for a constitutional purpose. Secondly, it will not bring the 2 Houses into any type of traditional or emotional conflict because members will be meeting as elected representatives of the people and not as members of the Senate or members of the House of Representatives respectively. Thirdly, it will give the opportunityand I do not want to limit the possibilityof debate, discussion and the ventilation of opinions at such an assembly. It could proceed as an ordinary debate with representatives of parties being given, if they wished, an allotted number of speakers and other members, independents and others, electing to speak if they so desired. The matter therefore could be rationally discussed and the consensus of opinion would be thereby determined. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! The question before the chair is that the words proposed by  Senator Prowse  's amendment to be inserted be left out. 
I see. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Sub.sequently if you are successful with that amendment, we will be able to move to insert other words. 
Should I wait to move this formally? The advice that I received very quickly from the  Clerk,  as I conceived it, was that I could move it at this stage and in the terms indicated. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  My advice from the  Clerk  is that that is the question before the Chair. 
-At what stage shall I formally move my amendment and in what terms? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  If you are successful with the proposition that you have before the Chair, that the words which  Senator Prowse  's amendment proposed be inserted be left out, then you may move to insert the words that you want to insert. 
Should I delay this until that resolution has been presented? Is that it? I got other advice. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The advice from the  Clerk  is that it can be moved as a whole but will be put in 2 parts. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- He can move it as a whole but it will be put in 2 parts. 
What do you mean 'as a whole'? 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- That is that the words will be left out and that the other words will be inserted. It will be one motion but 2 votes. 
-Then I should move 'that the words proposed to be inserted by  Senator Prowse  's amendment be left out', and having done that, I should then move 'that in lieu thereof the following words be inserted'. Is that correct? 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Yes. 
-The words to be inserted would be these: is of the opinion that an assembly of all members of the Federal Parliament be convened forthwith within Parliament House to determine by vote of such assembly the site of the new and permanent parliament house. 
I was arranging to have the amendment reproduced and circulated but there was not enough time before the debate concluded. I move that amendment in the hope that this may be a way of resolving the matter. If the Bill projected by  Senator Wright  is presented and passes this place it may well find a fate in the other place which may not be the fate for which we are looking. In those circumstances and in view of the experience of the resolutions of both Houses whereby there was a strong opinion in this place for Capital Hill and a bare majority in the other !&gt;lace for an alternative site, I think this is a very logical proposition; and in the light of the history of the Parliament on this matter in recent times it is the most practical way of resolving the problem and discovering what is the assembled view, the consensus, by a plebiscite of members of the Parliament of Australia in this unique situation. 

 - Senator McLaren asks me whether there would be any compulsion within that executive government to implement such a decision. Of course there would not. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I do not think it is a direct negative. 
I am indebted to you,  Mr Deputy President,  and to  Senator Lawrie  's intervention in the debate.  Senator McLaren  was asking whether any resolution, other than a matter that is resolved by a Bill passing in the normal course through both Houses or otherwise prescribed by statute would have any compulsion upon the executive government. Honourable senators will recall that on the last occasion when motions were moved in both places I said that there was a very small majority in the other place for the site of Camp Hill and that there was a substantial majority in this place for the site of Capital Hill. I remember saying to  Senator Cavanagh  at the time- perhaps we had a little wager- that the executive government would move in immediately and within 7 days, I think I said, would select Camp Hill as the site. It actually happened within 24 hours. That happened in spite of the strong resolution of this chamber and the rather flaccid resolution in the other place. Therefore, whether it is a resolution in that place or this, I agree with  Senator Wright  that in the absence of a Bill, a statute, there is no compulsion on the executive government. But if such an assembly of such moment and in such unique circumstances were convened, and after deliberation and debate a resolution were formally and seriously arrived at, the Government would be required, I think, by convention and by the logic and demands of the situation, to take notice of such a resolution. That appears to me to be a logical and reasonable way. I think this type of assembly divorced from the presence of both Houses as such, or members and senators as such, but as representatives of the people in the federal Parliament to determine what would be the site of the House that represents the political hopes, desires and aspirations of the people, would meet the wishes of the elected persons in another place. It is in that spirit and in that purpose and in the fond hope that it may succeed that I present my amendment. 
-The Democratic Labor Party supports the amendment moved by  Senator Rae  and our opinion reflects that which he has just expressed. 
-The Democratic Labor Party, similarly, will not oppose the passage of the Bill. As  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition, has said this is in pursuance of an agreement arrived at between the Commonwealth and the States and gives effect to that agreement. It will be of considerable advantage to the States and we support the passage of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1973. I merely seek the opportunity to make minor comments on some of the principles which emerge from it. Any Bill of this character which relates to the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and State governments always brings to mind the total question of the relationship between the Commonwealth and the States within the Federal concept and system. So far we have seen- more particularly over the last 12 months- and orientation of the whole of the Government's administration and policy towards the centralisation of authority in Canberra, indubitably at the cost of the States. This may be a matter of political philosophy. But at least when we come to a matter such as this and we find that the Commonwealth which has a substantial command of the sources of revenue is in a position to give money to the States on terms, even though as generous as this but on this basis, it highlights the necessity for a complete look at the concept of federation. Should we continue in this way or has an appropriate moment arrived for a redistribution of power? In what form are the States to be preserved with what functions and within what areas are they able to be viable within their own sovereignty, although it might be more limited sovereignty? Of course that will rest upon the financial structure which will support the activities and the constitutional responsibilities of the States. 
Therefore I feel that this Bill should attract some thought beyond the mere provision of the financial grants and other assistance which is set out in the Bill and to which the Bill purports to give effect. Great moves are operating in Australia today at the instance of the Federal Government for further control by it over areas of constitutional life. Also the Australian Constitutional Convention has been convened at the instance of 2 State governments- certainly the Government of Victoria- and it will look at the whole question of control over finances by Commonwealth, State and local authorities. A Bill such as this rather highlights the need for some such thing to be done. These arrangements always operate from year to year, from Loan Council to Loan Council and from Premiers Conference to Premiers Conference. Probably they always result in a certain fiction that the States put their position, the Commonwealth puts its reply and a compromise is ultimately arrived at. This sometimes reminds me of the definition of a economist as one who proceeds from an unwarranted assumption to an inevitable conclusion. It is almost certain that the final formula which is arrived at in any year by the Premiers Conference or by the Loan Council is almost inevitably one which could possibly have been determined by correspondence before the conference actually met. Therefore the whole situation is unreal; it is undesirable. I feel the time has come- I think this is particularly evident in the attitude of the States- when the whole matter must be looked at. 
As far as this Bill is concerned the Commonwealth has assumed a responsibility for the provision of certain moneys by way of grant to the States in lieu of the States drawing upon their loan allocations. I would say that that is equitable. At this time it is prudent and wise because of the inflation which necessarily bears most heavily upon those who are the constructing and operating authorities within the federation. The States have to operate substantially all the public and semi-public utilities. That will have the effect of at least eliminating what, to my mind, has been a matter of grave concern and that is the continuing rise in the debt level of the States as against the position of the Commonwealth which finances all its own works from revenue as it has done for many years. The States are required to finance their debts from within their own program. So there is a rise in the level of State liability and a diminution and even disappearance of the level of Commonwealth financed debits within the accounts. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was making some observations on the remote implications of the Bill which is before the Senate- the State's Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill- and drawing attention to those wider implications so far as they seem to indicate the need for a redefinition of the relative powers of the Commonwealth and the States so that the States would have a real and viable sovereignty. Instead of the sporadic and somewhat arbitrary grants which are determined by agreement between the Commonwealth and the States there should be some on-going financial arrangement which would enable the States at any time to see where they stand either in relation to their total finances or the particular areas in which now they receive special grants for assistance or loan support from the Commonwealth Government. I am glad to see that the Commonwealth Government has assumed certain responsibilities by way of substituting grants for borrowings on behalf of the States so that at least half of the indebtedness of the States is relieved, and that the Commonwealth has assumed a responsibility, for example, for the provision of welfare housing and capital works arising from the new Commonwealth approach to the assumption of responsibility for tertiary education; and the consequential capital saving that will result from that which is now the burden of the States. 
I am looking forward to the results of the deliberations of the Constitutional Convention so that as Australia moves into the next 30 years we can have a completely new distribution of power, so that the States no longer will feel themselves to be mendicants at the table of the Commonwealth and so that the Commonwealth will know at any time in view of its new international responsibilities just where it is going, where its areas of power, clearly and undisputably will lie and the States will have not only the responsibility for certain things but will have the means at their disposal without having to resort to alternative sources of finance by way of annual agreements or special approaches to finance their duties within the Constitution. Within these terms the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill and will assist its passage through the Senate. 
-The Social Welfare Commission Bill is a most important Bill because it purports to direct the attention of the nation to an area which can be very easily overlooked in the modern society. Australia over the years has become increasingly affluent, and very often the concept can gain general acceptance that in an affluent society there is no poverty, that in an affluent society people are getting along all right. Incomes are high, and there may be 2 cars in the family; there are swimming pools in many homes, and there are trips overseas, particularly for young people. All of these things can obscure the very real and devastating fact that even in an affluent society such as Australia there can be even greater areas of want and need which require attention. This is an attempt- I think a justifiable and worthwhile attempt- to try to direct the attention and the concern of the nation to examining what are these areas that require particular governmental care and solicitude. I am interested particularly in the second and third paragraphs on page 3 of the Minister's second reading speech. Those paragraphs read: 
For instance, of what use are programs for the aged, except in a limited way, in the rapidly burgeoning areas in the fringe suburbs of our cities where young families often on low and inadequate incomes are congregated? Similarly, the reverse situation would apply if a rigid commitment were made as a matter of centralised policy making that the priority would be given to programs for the needs of young families while the needs of the aged were ignored. 
I think there is a tremendous direction of attention to the need for the aged. Nobody can dispute that there is a need for that, a desirability for it and that there is sheer justice and charity in it. However, I do think that in this society certainly not enough attention is being given to the position of young families or of young children. 
This Senate on a number of occasions and in particular areas has expressed its concern, particularly in the educational field, in the sense that Committees have had referred to them the matters of education of children in isolated areas, the education of deprived children and, at the instance of  Senator Fitzgerald,  the education of handicapped children. This shows a general solicitude for the educational care of children. But there is a wider care of children which also must receive parliamentary and national attention and which should reflect parliamentary and national concern. I refer to the economic and social position of young families whose income is inadequate and whose children may, as the end result, suffer deprivation and denial. 
For our part the Democratic Labor Party has attempted for years to have substantial increases made in child endowment. This is obviously one of the ways in which the needs of young families, and particularly the needs of young children, can at least be provided for in part. We virtually have not succeeded at all in our campaign- certainly in no large measure- in persuading either the previous government or this Government of the need for an adequate provision for child endowment in the case of families which have more than a certain number of children. This matter is referred to in this Bill. It says with quite a degree of balance that one cannot give an undue accent to the disregard of the position of the aged any more than one can give an undue accent to the disregard of the position of the younger families and children. Nevertheless, the fact that this matter is referred to in the Bill shows that this is expected to be within the area of investigation, interest and concern of the Commission when it is established. If public submissions are sought from interested bodies, I would indicate at this stage that if the Democratic Labor Party is invited to make a submission and if it is appropriate to do it or if in response to a request we are permitted to do so, we will make a submission to this body on the need for adequate child endowment as one of the most practical, one of the easiest and one of the most justifiable ways of assisting young families in the community. With those observations I indicate that the Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. 
-Since the commencement of this session the Parliament has seen the phenomenon of an enormous number of Bills, many of them of a very dramatic and fundamental character, presented to this chamber. I have had occasion in the last week or so to protest about the inundations to which this chamber has been subjected by the number of Bills and that their fundamental character demands an attention which it is not possible for the Senate to give to them. When the Trade Practices Bill 1973 came in the other day it was adjourned until next year, until the first sitting day in February, in pursuance of the same type of proposition. If we look at the notice paper we see the Bills of a fundamental character which the Government has seen fit to introduce in terms of its interpretation of the mandate given to it at the last election. For example, there is a series of Constitution Alteration Bills which are of immense consequence as every Constitution alteration necessarily is. We have seen Bills such as that affecting the National Health Act, a substituted statute for the existing law, which again will have vast social consequences. We have had Bills like the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill and the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill which prescribe completely new codes of governmental and social behaviour. And we have Bills of the character of the two which are now before the chamber and which we are debating together. 
In the last few years this chamber has assumed a completely new character in the Parliament and today the nation looks to it in a particular way to discharge particular duties. That has been commonly accepted by both sides of the House and by none more than the gentlemen who now sit in government or by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Murphy.  He has been- and I approve of this, of course, and support it- the great protagonist of the responsibility of the Senate by creation of new machinery- new agencies- to investigate thoroughly and in depth propositions that come before this chamber. As a result of that he was in a major degree the progenitor of the Estimates committees and, more particularly, the standing committees, and a supporter of the select committees which are created from time to time. Those are worthwhile contributions in ideas; and those ideas and the ideas along the same lines which have come from other sections of the House have given the Senate a new character, a new viability and a new relevance in this Parliament. 
If ever the general propositions which are implicit in that approach have been put to the test surely it has been in the last 6 or 8 months of this year since the Government came to power. Because if ever there was a time when all the resources of this Senate would have to be mobilised and the new machinery which has been created put into operation it is when the Senate has to consider this mass of legislation which, as I say, is of a fundamental character and which is pouring from the Government and which we are expected to assess and examine and to pass or reject. Therefore I think that any charge that the Senate has in some way, by insisting on the operating of this new machinery to examine these Bills of such dimensions, caused frustration demonstrates a complete unawareness of the character of the Senate, the disposition of all members in this chamber, the creation of the machinery and the attitude that we should take to legislation. 
I am kidding nobody. I know that certain senators become extremely cynical. But we know that matters have received an investigation in depth in this chamber in the last 3 years which they never got before. We know that many of the propositions that have been advanced here as a result of reports of committees and the consideration of senators have emerged in legislation not only in the hands of the present Government, as  Senator Murphy  would claim, but in the hands of the previous Government. Reports such as the report on metrication, the development of Canberra and things like that have been of tremendous support to the Government of the day, and those propositions have been carried into legislative effect. As I say, if ever there was an occasion when matters of great consequence should be considered with all the machinery that the Senate now has at its disposal to operate in that investigation it is in relation to these Bills. These Bills are of a very deep character. They may become statutes the effect of which, if passed, can change in great degree the economic and financial structure of this country. I think it could be fairly said that the Government is of the opinion that something like that should be done. I do not think the Government would resile from the claim that these Bills have an orientation in that direction. If that is so surely there is a responsibility on this chamber to examine legislation of this character with all the resources available in the Senate and with all the external advice that we can receive. If we do not do that I think we would be recreant to our trust. We will have created an investigatory machine at very great cost that is not going to operateand when the real challenge comes to operate that machine we will be seen to have failed. 
If that is the best contribution the honourable senator can make, it is a very poor contribution. I say to the honourable senator that I do not suppose there is any group in the Parliament which makes a more positive or a more continuing contribution to the functioning of this chamber than the Democratic Labor Party. When one looks at the record of our Party in the contribution to the functioning of the Senate, the establishment of committees, the presentation of motions of consequence and the presentation of Bills in our own right and amendments to Bills one sees that there is no comparable activity by either the Government or the Opposition in this place. We are considering these Bills in pursuance of the same sense of responsibility and with the desire to make the same type of contribution. The Democratic Labor Party has been particularly interested in the question of foreign ownership and control and was so interested prior to the interest manifested by any other group in this Parliament. 
There was a great deal of discussion about the alienation of Australian resources and about the intervention of foreign ownership through multinational corporations securing beneficial ownership of one area or another of our national life. Apart from some rather vaguely drawn and not altogether satisfactorily operated guidelines which were laid down firstly by a LiberalCountry Party Government and then by  Mr Gorton,  the first positive contribution was made by the Democratic Labor Party which put to this chamber the necessity for a national investigation of the maintenance of Australian ownership and control, of the buy back the farm theory and of the way in which we could attract Australian investment to national development. I take some personal pleasure in speaking about this matter because I moved the motion for the creation of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control of which the present Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  was an active, interested and valuable member. Due to the change of government he found it necessary to cease his identification with that Committee. It is still continuing to sit and is investigating the whole question over specific areas, in some order of priorities. 
The Committee presented an interim report on the control of financial resources, banking and ancillary financial activities. That report dealt with the expansion of the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. It is common ground in this Parliament that the greatest possible and practicable degree of Australian ownership should be maintained and that, as far as possible, we should try to mobilise our resources to make that feasible and practicable in this country. The terms of reference which were laid down for the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control show that there has been an advertance to these difficulties and to these necessities. I now read one of the terms to show how germane the terms of inquiry are to the matters before the Senate. Term of reference (d) states:  the best method of mobilising Australian capital resources and attracting their commitment to national development. 
That proposition was specifically put to the Committee because it was no good going into generalities about the desirability of that aim unless we adverted also to the practical means by which we were able to attract Australian indigenous capital to the development of resources. We have had little difficulty attracting overseas capital over many years. It was almost fatally easy to get it. It is only in more recent times that Australia has become an affluent society with credits available and with deposits in the bank which, if they were properly attracted and properly mobilised, could be diverted to national development and to the ownership of Australian corporations, particularly in the resources development field. It is only in recent years that any excess of capital has become available. Unfortunately that excess had not reached such dimentions that there was an accumulation of what might be called risk capital, particularly grave risk capital, which those who had accumulated some credits were, for the first time in their lives, prepared to speculate on remote problems of possible financial reward and certainly those which could be put in some sort of financially and economically hazardous situation. 
Nevertheless, the Committee was asked specifically to look at that matter in the light of the new Australian climate, the new climate of national opinion and the new availability of financial resources accumulated in the savings and trading banks and generally available to the Australian investing public. That investigation is still proceeding. The Committee has had submissions from very many distinguished people in all fields of activities relevant to the inquiry, including a specific and extraordinarily able submission from  Sir Alan  Westerman who is obviously one of the fathers of the program which is now recited in the Bills before the chamber. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I seek leave to make a slight alteration to the amendment which I proposed. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
It is only a small amendment and I will not speak to it. The present form of the amendment states: 
The Bill be referred for inquiry and report, as soon as possible, to the Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, which is hereby authorised to consider the Bill. 
The alteration I desire to make is to insert certain words so that the amendment would read: 
The Bill be referred for inquiry, and report as soon as possible but not later than the twelfth day of March 1 974, to the Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, which is hereby authorised to consider the Bill. 
I ask for leave to make that alteration. At the appropriate time when I ask for leave, to move my foreshadowed amendment, it will be in identical form. 
I suppose that the words and report to the Senate' should be added. I took that for granted.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I ask for leave also to insert the words 'to the Senate' after the word 'report'. So the proposed amendment now reads: 
The Bill be referred for inquiry, and report to the Senate as soon as possible but not later than the twelfth day of March 1 974, to the Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, which is hereby authorised to consider the Bill. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Does the seconder of the amendment agree to the alterations? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Does the Senate agree to accept the amended form of the amendment? There being no objection, leave is granted to amend the amendment which has been moved. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred for inquiry and report to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations the following: 
1 ) The operation, control and conduct of the following companies: Applied Ecology Pty Ltd, Aboriginal and Islander Products Pty Ltd, and Aboriginal and Island Marketing Pty Ltd, companies incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory and having their registered offices at Woden Towers, Woden, Australian Capital Territory; 
The degree of ministerial control over and ministerial responsibility for expenditure from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account, the Aborigines Benefit Trust Fund and the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises; 
(a) Whether departmental programs and projects, or particular projects for which financial assistance is or has been sought, and for which funds have been or would be made available from the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises, have been adequately investigated by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and by the Department of the Treasury; and 
Whether expenditure on and the execution of approved programs and requests have been adequately controlled and supervised by the appropriate departments and in compliance with Treasury procedures and departmental requirements; and 
The circumstances surrounding the purchase of land, buildings and equipment for or by Aboriginal communities with money provided from the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises and, in particular, whether such purchases were made at prices in excess of Treasury valuation. 
-The Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill are being dealt with, by decision of the Senate, in a cognate debate. I was addressing myself to them when the Senate adjourned yesterday evening. The purport and objective of the Bills is fairly well known but it might be worth recapitulating for the benefit of those who want to put the matter in complete context. The Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill is designed to extend the charter of the Australian Industry Development Corporation to enable it to take on activities which up to this time have been denied to it under the existing charter. The extended charter would enable the Corporation to initiate support for industries irrespective of whether any industry of its own initiative came to the Corporation. Possibly the National Investment Fund Bill is the more important of these 2 Bills because it is as a result of the provisions of this proposed statute that the funding of the Australian Industry Development Corporation will be established and made possible. Therefore, it is quite appropriate that the National Investment Fund Bill be considered at the same time as the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill is considered. 
The proposal for the AIDC is that it should have an extended charter. It is also proposed, under the complex of Bills, that revenue be directly available to the AIDC to support proposals and enterprises which the Government considers warrant financial support which may not otherwise be available. The National Investment Fund Bill is a means of agglomerating investment capital in Australia, particularly from indigenous sources, for funding the AIDC to buy into and support existing enterprises and to fund the operation and extension of new enterprises. The means by which this is to be done is by the AIDC selling bonds related to particular divisions of the Fund which would sponsor particular enterprises. These funds could come from a number of sources. They could come from the coercive diversion of funds from life insurance offices and similar bodies and from the sale of bonds to people who would receive a 10 per cent return on their investment- $100 subscribed immediately becomes $110. From the accumulation of such funds the AIDC would have a working capital which it may use to support Australian industry in the ways which I have suggested. 
The principle behind these Bills is a reflection of the national concern about the divestment from the Australian nation of many of its resources. Due to the shortage of investment and speculative risk capital in Australia it has been found necessary to attract capital from overseas, and that capital comes in either by way of loan or by way of equity investment to purchase beneficial ownership or part of beneficial ownership in Australian enterprises, with the resultant passage of ownership and control from Australian hands to foreign hands. The concern for that process is commonly shared by all Parties in this Parliament. Perhaps no Party has shown a greater concern about this type of operation than has the Democratic Labor Party. The DLP moved to have established a committee of this chamber to investigate the whole matter of foreign ownership and control. That is why we are especially interested in the provisions of this Bill. While there is a national concern about this divestment of Australian ownership and control and while a formula must be discovered to try to halt this process, the question is whether these cognate Bills accomplish this in a way which is commercially, financially and socially practicable and acceptable. It would be possible to do this in many ways- ways which those who have experience in this field might find totally unacceptable and ways which might prejudice the ordinary ebb and flow of business. On the other hand, those ways might embody social principles and philosophies which would be alien to the views of the Australian people. 
I present this proposition on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party: There is this national concern. The Government has introduced these Bills which purport to present a formula by which the process can be halted and by which there can be a buy back of the Australian interest and an accumulation and diversion of Australian capital into Australian enterprises, particularly those which are exploiting our national resources. We have to be careful of the actual implications of these Bills. We think that they are of vast consequence and wide ranging in their implications. The considerations which  Senator Cotton  put in the course of his scholarly address on this matter yesterday indicate that there is a widespread concern in many fields that however well-intentioned the proposition may be the Bills may have implications which range far beyond the implications projected by the progenitors of the Bills. They contain wide ranging implications which are causing grave concern in the commercial community and which, therefore, must attract the attention of this Parliament. 
To allow these Bills, with these vast implications, to go through without adequate scrutiny would be, I think, a derogation of the duty of this chamber and would show a complete lack of responsibility. It is not sufficient that honourable senators be advised of the nature and content of these Bills, of the far reaching implications to be drawn from them or of the commercial repercussions; more than that is required. The Bills are of such complexity and of such commercial and financial profundity that few senators, without expert advice, would be able to arrive at a definitive decision and conclusion as to whether the Bills would be acceptable to the Australian Parliament. In the time that has been available since the Bills were introduced, I would not consider myself equipped to handle them in the way in which they should be handled. I think I would be prepared to deny that any senator is adequately equipped to give them the consideration and the in-depth examination which Bills of this nature warrant. For these reasons, the Democratic Labor Party having considered the matter very seriously, will propose an amendment to each Bill. In relation to the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill the motion is: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be referred for inquiry and report, as soon as possible, to the Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, which is hereby authorised to consider the Bill '. 
In relation to the National Investment Fund Bill I foreshadow that at the appropriate time in relation to the motion that the Bill be read a second time I shall move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be referred for inquiry and report, as soon as possible, to the Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, which is hereby authorised to consider the Bill'. 
The Democratic Labor Party was in the forefront of the activity to have the whole question of foreign ownership and control of Australian assets considered by this Parliament. This matter does not lie purely within the responsibility of the Government. This matter is so important, it is so critical for Australia at this period of its development and it is so critical for Australia, when new techniques are now available for the development of resources, that the Parliament should be adequately informed on this matter. The Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control was established on 10 December 1971. It had a number of terms of reference. I shall read out two, which are most relevant to the Bill. The Committee was asked to consider: the best method of mobilising Australian capital resources and attracting their commitment to national development; the best method of reconciling the inflow of overseas capital for Australian development with the retention of Australian ownership and control. 
The personnel of that Committee was drawn from all parties. In the initial stages of the Committee 's inquiry the personnel was:  Senator Withers,  Western Australia, who is at present Leader of the Opposition and who was Chairman;  Senator Murphy  who is at present AttorneyGeneral and who was then Leader of the Opposition;  Senator Cant,  Western Australia;  Senator Guilfoyle,  Victoria;  Senator Maunsell,  Queensland, and myself. That Committee met on a number of occasions and decided that it would take the inquiry in segments and that the first segment to be taken would be the segment in relation to finance. We thought that the basic situation to be considered in Australia was a monopoly of Australian financial resources and the mobilisation of those resources to effect the purposes which it was the desire of this chamber, of the Committee and the whole of Australia to achieve. Having considered and taken extensive evidence in that area the Committee brought in an interim report in October of last year, I think it was. 
I think I should read what is referred to in that report and what was recommended virtually unanimously by the Committee, subject to a general qualification which was inserted by some of the Committee members. On page 12 of the Committee's report paragraph 10.5 states: 
The Committee is of the opinion that the Australian Resources Development Bank and the Australian Industry Development Corporation are both performing important tasks. However, at this stage of their development, due to causes beyond their control, their role is far too insignificant to be considered a major force in the capital market. The Committee recommends that the activities of both these two bodies be either expanded further, or other special purpose organisations be established which should be free of direct government intervention and possess flexibility in their operations. 
The recommendation was carried by the whole Committee, although a reservation was expressed by  Senator Cant  and  Senator Murphy.  The relevant part of that reservation is as follows: 
We do not agree with so much of the interim report as is based on the assumption that the philosophy and policies of the present Government will continue to operate in Australia. 
I mention that in fairness to the honourable senators, although it is not particularly relevant to what I am saying here. 
The point I am making is that that Committee saw the need for the Australian Industry Development Corporation, and also saw the necessity for the expansion of its activities and the range of its interest and participation. That was an all-Party Committee. Having read the second reading speeches delivered in another place when these Bills were presented, it would appear that no reference was made, unless I have not seen such a reference, to the deliberations of the Committee or to that recommendation. However, I could stand corrected on that matter. If what I say is the case, it is to be regretted because, after all, if this chamber sets up a committee which investigates a matter and which takes very wide ranging evidence, it would only be appropriate, if a government is then bringing in legislation either in terms of any of its recommendations or in the face of them or contrary to them, that reference should be made to the report of such a committee. 
However, the committee visualised that there should be an extension of the activities of the AIDC or that some independent organisation should be set up. The Government may have introduced this legislation in terms of such a recommendation. Our concern, which is expressed in one of the terms of the Committee's inquiry, is that a proper formula should be discovered to find out how Australian participation can be increased, extended and developed. We are concerned at the response in the commercial community that has now come to the Bills which we are discussing. Very grave concern has been expressed as to the commercial implications of the measure. Very grave concern has been expressed at another level as to the social implications of the measure. Those who very strictly adhere to the policy of completely uninhibited free enterprise would see in these Bills some major danger to the operation and existence of that system. Others do not see it in the same light and with the same degree of emphasis, but within the business community genuine fears are expressed - 
Yes there are genuine fears and, as  Senator Cotton  reminds me, apprehension as to what could be the ultimate commercial and financial consequences within the present structure of a commercial and financial society. I shall, if I have time to do so, read out a few of the suggestions which the Committee made. Perhaps that is not necessary. But there has been a general concern. Matters have been mentioned as being likely to have very grave repercussions. I refer to such matters, for example, as the effect of the operations of these Bills if they are given the scope which the drafting permits on a reasonable interpretation. It could result, for example, in a very grave interruption of the normal and normally accepted processes of the capital market in Australia. We in Australia so far are rather unsophisticated in the operation of the capital market. Merchant banks and things of this nature are of only recent origin in this country; they are not very sophisticated. The area is still sensitive and we are subject to all sorts of international financial pressures to which our sensitive market will respond. Men in commerce and industry are very deeply concerned that the full operation of the AIDC and the National Investment Fund in this field might very well disturb the capital market. 
Then very deep concern is expressed by insurance companies and other bodies similarly situated which will be required to pay a certain proportion of their moneys on a percentage basis into the National Investment Fund. They say that will have very severe repercussions within their own industry, that it will have very severe repercussions in those areas which traditionally have received the financial support of moneys held in those hands and received from those sources. Comments such as those I have outlined, of course, cannot be lightly disregarded. These people are skilled and accomplished in that field. If they see a danger and a possible disturbance in this area of their participation- I am not speaking of their selfish participation; I am speaking of the role they play by the nature of their organisation and the functioning of their societies and their companies- then it is a matter for serious consideration by this chamber. 
There is another body of opinion which is extremely concerned that on a reasonable and acceptable interpretation of some of the powers which are laid down in one of the other Bills there could be by various means a substantial transfer of public ownership. These may well be matters that are not within the contemplation of those who framed the legislation but which in their hands or in the hands of others may well be used to effect purposes completely beyond the present contemplation of the Bills which are before the Senate. These are matters of very great concern to the country, to business, and to the economic stability of Australia. It may well be that other methods, other formulae, which do not have these overtones and cause apprehension and concern, may be discovered which would substantially giver effect to what is the commonly held desire of the Australian people, namely, that as far as possible we should maximise Australian control and ownership of our resources and at the same time not deter the investment of foreign capital in Australia. There may be another formula which could give effect to both of these aspirations and desires without the necessity for Bills in this form which create these dangers, fears and genuine apprehensions. 
It is for that reason that the Democratic Labor Party feels that the Bills should be considered at leisure and that the most expert advice that is available should be available to the Senate so that the Bills can be examined, firstly, against the propositions which were presented to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. They could then be examined as to whether, in an acceptable form, they carry into operation something like the recommendations brought forward or whether some acceptable alternative should be discovered. The Senate committee had before it the expert evidence of  Sir Alan  Westerman who presented an extremely well prepared and, as one would expect, an extraordinarily competent paper.  Sir Alan  was interrogated on this matter, as were other witnesses. He obviously had in mind the need- this view is commonly shared- for the extension of the activities of the AIDC. 
I do not know- perhaps nobody knows- what other advice the Government has had in the 
E reparation of this legislation. We do not k now- I do not know- the extent to which it consulted business in relation to the extent to which the implications that I suggest may be implicit in the operation of the legislation may actually occur. I do not know whether the Government has gone to the business community and taken its advice in the areas in which it is likely to be affected. If it did not seek this advice, this would mean that a series of Bills which can effect a fundamental change in the commercial and financial structure of Australia- let us have no doubt about that- are sought to be passed through this chamber, this chamber being denied that expert body of advice, evidence and counsel to which I think it is entitled and, as a matter of fact, which it has an obligation to receive in the circumstances. 
If these Bills are referred to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Controlas the amendment which I have moved and as the amendment which I have foreshadowed to another Bill suggest should be done- that Committee can do now, in relation to the Bills, what it has done in relation to the general propositions. It can call expert evidence. It can invite various representatives of all elements of the business community and others to come forward and give their views as to what would be the implications of this legislation in an interpretation by governments of today or in future. The Committee can again call  Sir Alan  Westerman before it. He again can give the Committee the benefit of his advice and counsel as to how he sees the operation of these Bills, what he visualises will be the way in which effect will be given to them, the purposes to be achieved and, more particularly, the dangers that may be implicit in them if the ends apparently set out to be achieved are either departed from or used in some other way. Therefore it seems appropriate that the Senate, in particular, should assume responsibility in this matter and should approach the whole question with the very greatest seriousness. 
I have had occasion in the last fortnight to refer to the mass of heavy and important legislation which has come before this chamber. I did that in another context. When we consider the weight, seriousness and the sheer number of the Bills which the Senate is being asked to considerBills that affect the constitutional position in Australia, Bills that affect the social order in Australia, Bills that affect domestic relations in Australia, Bills that affect the national health scheme and things like that- and matters, such as the Trade Practices Bill, that concern the commercial life and the trade union life of Australia, it must be realised that these things are of such moment that to try to deal with them ad hoc in the quick rush towards the end of a session would be unthinkable and indefensible. That proposition particularly applies to these Bills. 
In moving this amendment I assure those to whom I am addressing my remarks that we of the DLP do not approach this Bill in any atmosphere of implacable opposition. After all, I, as a member of the DLP, was a party to the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, as were Opposition senators who sit on my right and Government senators, and it was felt that there was some need for a body such as the AIDC to be set up- even in an extended form and perhaps with a stronger financial structure- to achieve a purpose. Our attitude in moving this amendment and in foreshadowing another amendment is that we must examine the Bills in depth and in time. One thing can be achieved. It is useless to try to bring in this legislation and to impose it on the community unless it is done in an atmosphere of total commercial confidence. I do not mean that commerce and industry will necessarily accept the propositions at all. What I mean is that at least they want a reassurance that while the proposition is not acceptable in a particular sense, in the general sense they are not likely to be faced with vast and wide interpretations of it that ultimately will create a situation which they cannot contemplate and which, if they did, they would fear. 
Therefore, if we have this examination- and  we will invite industry representatives to come forward and present their propositions- we can create a national confidence that this is a body which is desirable in a different form or with a different charter or with certain limitations or circumscriptions. If that is so, I think perhaps a real contribution will have been made to what we want to achieve, that is, to try to preserve the maximum ownership of Australian resources in Australian hands and to mobilise Australian capital for that purpose, but all within the framework of the protection of those who today conduct the commercial and industrial life of Australia. In that way those engaged in commercial and industrial life shall not, by the operation of a piece of legislative machinery, be put in the position where they have virtually to be eased out and destroyed in their commercial or industrial enterprises. If that were to be the end result of this, it would be a disaster, and my Party certainly would not accept any legislation which was capable of such an interpretation or which in its operation might have such effect. 
I addressed myself to this matter yesterday, and therefore, I do not wish to speak any longer on it. I have presented one amendment to the 
Senate and outlined another, and I commend them to the Senate. I merely wish to say one thing. In the House of Representatives today a question was directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  by  Mr Hurford,  an honourable member for a South Australian seat. I will read a part of  Dr Cairns'  answer. He said: 
Because of the level of funds available to the Corporation it must have first regard to basic developmental projects. I would not say that the wine industry is a basic developmental project in fact or in terms of the AIDC's very limited powers to act according to the present law, which is of course affected by what the Senate is doing. The Senate is proposing to refer the AIDC Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control for inquiry and report. I believe the Democratic Labor Party senators are genuine in their attitude. I think they wish to have the Bills very closely examined by that Committee and given that view I am quite prepared to see that examination made. 
There is then a reference to the members of the Opposition which is not completely relevant. 
Yes. Of course, the Minister is anxious to get the Bill passed, but I am sure that he sees the wisdom of the procedure which we have suggested. We announced yesterday, through the Press, the amendments which we were to propose. One has been moved and the other has been foreshadowed. I have little doubt that in response to that,  Dr Cairns  is seeing the wisdom of this type of procedure, because I am sure he would sense, as we sense and know, the concern now felt in the commercial community. 
If the legislation is to have any real effect within the community, it has to be legislation that is reasonably acceptable. Therefore, in view of  Dr Cairns'  statement, I hope that our amendments, which I understand will be supported by the members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party, will now find acceptance from members of the Government. If that is to be the position, it is not necessary for me to plead the cause any further. I commend to honourable senators the amendment which I have moved and the one which I have foreshadowed and will move at the appropriate time, and trust that the amendments will find a quick and successful passage. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
Government. One of the persons instrumental in setting it up was our former Leader,  Sir John  McEwan. It was set up for the purpose of mobilising Australian finance in order to obtain as much Australian equity as possible in Australian enterprises. This refers particularly to the development of our mining resources and our resources generally. We all know that the development of these resources requires a great deal of finance, and in the past Australians have not shown a great deal of interest in what we might call long-term developments- in other words, where a return cannot be expected for some years. 
There has been a need in this country to have some instrument to mobilise this finance and also to obtain loan funds from overseas. It is interesting to note that even when the overseas companies come to Australia to develop our resources, a great deal of the finance which is found comes from the loan market and not from subscribers. Consequently, it was necessary for us, if we were to assist our industries in acquiring equity in these developments, to have an instrument that was capable of borrowing overseas and assisting in maintaining Australian equity. We also believe, as does the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control to which  Senator Byrne  referred, that the AIDC should be broadened, particularly in the direction of obtaining more finance and also of being able to obtain it locally in the Australian market. 
We find from the evidence presented to this Senate Committee that many of these overseas companies that were bringing funds into Australia to develop our resources were raising much of their money on the local market whereas the Australian Industry Development Corporation was able to raise only a certain amount in Australia. When we see the contents of the Bills presently before the Senate we realise that there are great dangers in what may be the purpose of this Corporation in the future. It is interesting to note that when the former Government set up the AIDC there was an expert board of directors to operate the Corporation and to give expert advice. These people included  Mr Bunning,  a business man from Western Australia,  Mr Leonard,  who is well known as the Manager of Ampol Petroleum Ltd,  Sir George  Fisher, who for many years was the Managing Director and  Chairman  of Directors of Mount Isa Mines Ltd, a most successful mining operation,  Sir Colin  Syme, formerly of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd,  Sir Charles  McGrath of the Repco Company and  chairman  of some 20 other companies, and  Sir John  Dunlop of the Bank of New South Wales. 
The expertise that these people were able to bring to this Corporation must have been very valuable. Of course, they were able to decide which enterprises were really risk enterprises and those enterprises that may be too risky to become involved in. Up to date I doubt whether the AIDC has had any real failures in any companies in which it has invested or for which it has been a vehicle in assisting Australian industry to mobilise equity. I certainly would not be so opposed to this Bill if I felt that the expertise that this kind of people can present was allowed to continue because certainly none of these men would be in favour of public or government control of industry. But I am afraid that the way in which the Australian Industry Development Corporation is now proposed to be set up, it could become an instrument of the Government to gain control of industries throughout this country. I believe that in those circumstances we must have a very good look at it. 
I am very interested to know how the Corporation will obtain its finance. I am under the impression that perhaps some of our finance companies, the merchant banks and the life assurance offices will be forced to put some of their money into the AIDC and that it, having advantages in taxation in other ways, will be able to operate most advantageously in competition with these companies. I do not think that that is good for the financial structure of this country because where we have a number of companies at the moment operating in competition we could reach a situation in which we have one great government monopoly. I have talked to members of the Liberal Party. We all agree that the sensible thing to do is to follow the lead of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in the amendment that it proposes to move and to let the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control have a really good look at this matter. It can bring in expert advice and it can allow people with an interest in this field to come before the Committee and explain to it the areas in which they have fears or to express the thoughts they wish to advance. So the Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party will support the amendment. As I am a member of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, I feel that I have said enough at this time. When the matter comes before the Senate again I will then be in a position to know how my Party will act and how the Opposition will act. 
-As I indicated earlier, the Senate has been having a cognate debate on 2 Bills, the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill. I moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and I am indebted to the Senate, to both the Government and the Opposition, for favourable consideration of that amendment. I can only hope that the deliberations of the Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, after its examination, will prove fruitful. If there are improvements to be effected or if there are reassurances to be given I hope that that Committee will be able to come up with solutions and draw attention to things that might well be eliminated if it is considered wise and proper to do so. I think that  Senator Cotton  has expressed views that I would also express.  Senator Cotton  is a member of that Committee, as am I and  Senator McAuliffe  and other honourable senators in the chamber. I can assure the Senate that the investigations of that Committee will proceed as rapidly as possible, allowing for the intervention of the short Christmas period. The deadline set for the presentation of the report of the Committee is 12 March 1974 and we certainly hope that its report will be available at that time. 
I now wish to speak to the particular Bill before us, the National Investment Fund Bill. I will now move the appropriate amendment in regard to it. It is identical with the amendment I moved in relation to the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. To the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time' I now move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Bill be referred for inquiry and report to the Senate, as soon as possible, but not later than 12 March 1974, to the Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, which is hereby authorized to consider the Bill'. 
-I can see the prudence of the course of action taken by  Senator Wright,  who has exhibited his keen interest in the most formal way. By the passage of this Bill the site for the new Parliament House would be established, and established as quickly as possible. Just what should be the meets and bounds of the parliamentary area is a matter that might well provoke some disputation. It could well be that it we went into the technicalities as to what could be involved in the area and whether it would be prudent to have extended areas, the whole immediate purpose of the Bill might be lost and there could be further delay. 
This Parliament has seen sufficient delay over a number of years in getting to this position. Honourable senators are indebted to  Senator Wright  for finally formalising the matter by the presentation of the Bill, lt is in consonance with his attitude and the disposition of the Senate that the site for Parliament House should be determined and the meets and bounds of it, if it is decided later on that they should be more or less extensive, can be raised and suitably provided for in future in the proper way. Therefore I think  Senator Wright's  withdrawal of his amendments has a great deal to commend it and we support his action. 
Clauses negatived. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. In view of the implications for every country of the current international energy crisis as a result of the withholding of oil supplies from the Middle East and as Australia is not self sufficient in liquid petroleum or oil will the Minister indicate the programs under way with Commonwealth assistance to explore aU sources of energy generation, that is, petroleum, petroleum gas, solar heating, hydrogenation of coal, kerosene shales, nuclear energy and tidal energy generation? Does the Government propose to accelerate or stimulate investigation of or experimentation with these energy sources? If so, what particular expanded programs are contemplated? 
-I direct my remarks primarily to that part of the Constitution Alteration (Mode of Altering the Constitution) Bill which deals with the determination of the majorities necessary to ensure the passage of a referendum. I feel that the proposal is based on a total misconception of the very purpose of the Constitution and the nature of the federation of the States. The preamble to the Constitution states: 
Whereas the people of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland and Tasmania . . . have agreed to unite in one indissoluble Federal Commonwealth. . . 
In other words, the Commonwealth of Australia is not a union of all people; it is a federation of designated colonies emerging as designated and original States. The proposal to alter the provision concerning the alteration of the Constitution to 3 States from the present constitutional requirement of four appears to me to be a denial of the concept of the banding together of a series of colonies and States into a federation. 
Order! It being 1 1 p.m., in conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Consideration resumed. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with a request; report adopted. 
There is no point of order involved. 
The Services will be better off under a Labor Government'. Now  Major Young  has to get up and say: 'I feel that I must apologise '. 
-Senator Keeffe has given notice of a motion relating to a reference to a standing committee.  Senator Maunsell  and I also have given notice of motions relating to references to a standing committee, and pertaining to the same matter. As the committee may well be soon investigating these matters very early, I think it would be prudent, if this is an extended term of reference of the same type as is proposed by  Senator Keeffe,  for the reference to be made as promptly as possible. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party on the occasion that the original Trade Practices Bill was before the Senate thought fit and proper that it should receive adequate consideration. For that matter, it agreed to adjourn consideration of the Bill until early in the parliamentary sittings next year. The Government immediately proceeded to introduce a second Bill, the Trade Practices Bill 1973 (No. 2). The original Bill is somewhat changed but this Bill is substantially the same measure as the first. We see no reason why we should vary the attitude that we took on that occasion. What prompted us to take that attitude was that that Bill and now this Bill- substantially the same Bill- can effect major transformations in relation to the ebb and flow of Australian commercial life and the traditional practices within the community. They are of vast consequence and have very vast implications. 
There are people affected and we think in these circumstances that those who might find justifiable cause for complaint or unjustifiable cause for complaint and who wish to put their propositions for consideration before parliamentarians or before political parties should have the opportunity of doing so in a matter of such far reaching consequence. It was for that purpose that the previous Bill was laid aside. It would be for the same purpose that, in our opinion, this Bill should be laid aside. For that reason, we sup- port the proposal that this Bill be similarly de- f erred. 
-Very often in this place matters of little consequence are projected for debate in a highly dramatic atmosphere. But so often matters of great consequence are discussed here in an atmosphere of complete relaxation and apparent inattention. Yet they are matters of very deep and abiding consequence. I regard this Law Reform Commission Bill as a matter falling into that category. There is nothing more important than a proper, acceptable and workable system of law. Very often in modern communities we see the total collapse of the community because of a breakdown in the legal system. I often wonder whether a great number of the troubles in the United States of America which are currently before the people of the world are not in some sense attributable to the complexities and the delays in the legal administration and judical system generally in that country. We face a difficult problem here because of the concept of federalism. Sovereign states exist and of course all of them have brought their own law from Great Britain. They still administer it within the concept of common law and of statute law. In some States imperial statutes are relied upon and are still operative law within the State sovereignty. It is obvious that if this position develops we will have a completely diversified system of law. We may ultimately find a diversified system of jurisprudence which I think would be highly undesirable if we concede that the system of jurisprudence stemming from the English common law and the English concept of law has a tremendous harmony and value and has been historically established. We are likely to lose this harmony if various systems develop in individual States unless there is some way in which uniformity can be preserved and the common principles can be projected throughout the legal systems. At the moment all States are trying to modernise and consolidate their law and are trying to make it relevant to modern conditions. At the same time they are making it much easier of access and much simpler of interpretation. It is inevitable that with a series of law reform bodies operating in the same field- that is, in the 6 States and in the Commonwealth- we will have a diversity in the final conclusions. Ultimately we will have a static position in which the laws of the various States will be consolidated and become frozen, as it were. Any attempt thereafter to try to establish a uniform system of law in the Commonwealth will become increasingly difficult. In other words, this is the most opportune time for movement to take place so that we can get commonly accepted legal principles and a common system of jurisprudence and law throughout the whole of the Commonwealth. It is for that reason that the Australian Democratic Labor Party welcomes the creation of this Law Reform Commission at the hands of the Commonwealth Government. We know that its task will be immense. We know that many of the laws are no longer relevant in the modern context. Much of the drafting is appropriate to an earlier age. But the important thing is that the position is even more extreme in the States which, of course, are much older. Many of the States go back to old statutes which, as I have said, are still current within the States and under State sovereignty. Therefore to try first of all to find a comprehensive system of law for the Commonwealth territories is important. The Territories are developing, expanding and populating. The Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, as adverted to by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in his second reading speech, will be vast areas of people, industry and commerce. While the law in those places today may operate in relation to a comparatively small number of people and a comparatively undeveloped industrial and commercial area, in an increasing degree it will apply in very vast areas and in very dense population situations. Therefore the Commonwealth system of law will assume a very important role; much more important than it is now. 
If alongside this Commonwealth system there develops and continues to exist 6 different systems of law with different statutes and principles, perhaps extending even to the common law, we will have a complexity which will be adverse to the interests of the Australian citizen. More particularly will that be so with the rapidity and ease of interstate and Commonwealth communication and with the passage of people and commerce from State to State. We will have many more instances where the law of one State will apply in another State to particular transactions. As the Attorney-General said we virtually have to apply private international law between the States. This is a highly undesirable situation and one which would need the attention of a statute law revision committee. It should try to obviate and overcome this situation by making the laws uniform throughout the Commonwealth. I do not know whether the Commission in the form set out in the Bill is the best. I would say that in its composition it contemplates expert support for its investigations. The Bill contemplates those skilled in the law will comprise the Commission. 
I think the important thing is that the States will, in the fullest degree, co-operate in the functioning of the Commission. That is of prime importance because what is projected in this Commission is something which will embrace ultimately State laws in an attempt to get uniformity. Therefore there must be the complete and total co-operation of the States. 
As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood)  said, there was a discussion between  Senator Murphy  and representatives of Opposition Parties as to the terms of the amendments proposed by  Senator Greenwood.  I interjected when  Senator Greenwood  was discussing the principles which might be taken as stemming from the Bill to which he found objection. I indicated that in the light of that concordance the discussion was somewhat academic. Perhaps use of that word 'academic' was unfortunate. Perhaps I should have said that the discussion was theoretical at this stage. Whilst the principles may still be quite well discussed by  Senator Greenwood,  as he did discuss them in relation to the passage of this Bill and the fact that those provisions were deleted, it was somewhat theoretical. But undoubtedly what  Senator Greenwood  said and the implications he drew were of consequence and I think completely valid. Perhaps use of the word 'academic' was not appropriate. 
I think that this is a most important Bill, the real significance of which may quite easily escape the attention of members of the Parliament but it will have vast and far reaching consequences. More particularly, in view of the Constitutional Convention which has been convened, which has sat already and is continuing its deliberations, it would be inappropriate if the constitutional relations of the Commonwealth were allowed to be redetermined and redefined, as no doubt they will be in some areas if the recommendations of that Convention are adopted, and it would be inappropriate if at the same time the diversity of law were allowed to continue without interruption and the systems were allowed to continue to develop in their own way. It seems most appropriate that there should be a parallel attempt to look at the legal system while we are looking at the Constitution. 
I think there is a great deal to be said for a diversity in life. I do not like to see complete homogeneity because it is soul destroying and stultifying. However, so far as the law is concerned, in a community which is racially, culturally and socially substantially homogeneous, I think it is important that the system of the law and the operative law should be substantially uniform. 
Therefore even though in other areas of life I might welcome and support diversity, in the legal field I think that the certainty of the law and the general availability of the same law to all citizens of the Australian Commonwealth are matters of prime importance. 
-That is quite true. There is nothing more inappropriate than that a citizen should find that in one area of Australia he is subject to certain restraints and constraints while in another area there may be more or less emphasis on those things, or there may be a complete denial or an actual prohibition. I agree that in that area uniformity of law would be of prime importance. After all, if we consider the criminal law, there are still States operating under individual criminal statutes, some of which stem from the English criminal law. In Queensland, as in Western Australia, we have a codification of the criminal law. For example, in Queensland the law of defamation comes from the Defamation Act and from the definitions of defamation within the criminal code. I think that from memory the defamation law in Queensland makes it possible to defame a person by defaming a member of his family who may be dead. I have the impression that that law was not available in New South Wales and perhaps still is not available. 
Yes. There are situations like that where there is a very marked diversity of law which is most unfortunate because rights are conferred on an Australian citizen in one State and denied in the other, or vice versa. Therefore I commend this Bill to honourable senators. As I said, by a concordance with the Attorney-General and the Opposition Parties the amendments to be proposed by  Senator Greenwood  substantially have been accepted by the Government and the consequences will be apparent when the Attorney-General addresses the Senate. Subject to that, I support the Bill and the proposals put forward by  Senator Greenwood  which I understand will be accepted by the Attorney-General. 
-Mr Temporary  Chairman- 
Is it the wish of the Committee that all of the amendments be taken in toto? 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party, together with the other parties in Opposition, supports the Bill. It is a facilitating measure to streamline the present procedures. Obviously it was a tortuous procedure that all acquisition even by agreement had to go to the Governor-General. The provisions of this Bill will enable the Minister to ratify the agreements so concluded. This seems to be an eminently reasonable proposition. It will facilitate resumptions, and this is particularly desirable where people are having their land resumed and compensation is to be paid, particularly by agreement. The Bill contains a provision regarding the rate of interest which is to be paid in relation to resumptions where the negotiations have taken some time. This rate is to be increased, and I think this is prudent and just. In all the circumstances, the DLP supports the passage of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 is a most important piece of legislation and it  is  unfortunate that it should come before the chamber in these dying hours of what has been a most strenuous session. It is one of a series of important pieces of fundamental legislation, the nature and the number of which have caused some concern to the Senate. The Senate in the discharge of its duties, and accepting its responsibilities, has not seen fit in a number of instances to consider these Bills with any great haste or undue speed. For that reason, the Trade Practices Bill was adjourned until the first sitting day in February 1974. The Australian Industries Development Corporation Bill and its associated Bill were referred to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. I think it could be said that both of those actions were prudent, reasonable and called for in the circumstances. 
This is a major Bill. I do not criticise the Minister for the fact that the Bill was introduced so late in the session. There has been a heavy legislative program and he has been the author of much of it. I suppose it was no inconsiderable effort to be able  to present the  Bill even at this late stage. However I think it is too much to expect a Bill of this consequence to be considered, analysed, assessed, deliberated upon and finally voted on in the short time now available to us. Of course, my colleagues and friends on my right in the Liberal and Country Parties have had access to the Bill and have had the opportunity of analysing it and debating it in another place. But the Democratic Labor Party has not had that opportunity. Because of the heavy legislative program it has been all we can do to try to keep abreast of the Bills that have come before this chamber and gone to a final resolution. 
As our vote in this chamber could be of some decisiveness, we feel that we have a heavy responsibility to ensure that this Bill is properly studied by us. In cases where we think it necessary we like to take advice on legislation, not only within our own Party but also from outside from those who are likely to be affected by it. This Bill, for example, will create great variations in the attitude to the development and exploitation of minerals and petroleum in this country. Of course, it is concerned also with the processing of basic products. It trespasses, if I may use the term, on State rights and gives the Commonwealth authority to take up areas and to develop them within the realm of State sovereignty. Things of that nature are of very vast consequence. They are of such vast consequence that I do not think our Party - 
No, I do not think they are right; of course not. All I am saying is that the propositions contained in this Bill are so dramatic and so far reaching that the Senate owes it to itself to study them in detail and at leisure. Our Party feels particularly that is has a heavy duty to do that. I have consulted my colleagues and for those reasons we think that the debate should be adjourned. We think that the further debate on this Bill should come forward, not after an unduly long period, but after the parliamentary recess and during the February session of the resumed Parliament. Therefore, without going into the details at this late hour, I put the case as we see it. We feel that it is desirable to investigate and examine the Bill and that we have a duty to do so. We feel therefore that to adjourn the matter in this way might be the appropriate step to take. 
We could have referred the Bill, as we did with the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill, to a select committee or a standing committee of the Senate. But the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill was in a particular category. It opened up vast areas. This Bill really does not operate in that sense, although the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  as reported by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in his speech, refers, to the question of Australian ownership and control and his Government's commitment to national investment. We feel that there is a similarity between the Bills. However, as the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has before it this other major investigation which it will conduct in the month of February so that it can report back to the Senate in March, it would not be altogether appropriate that this Bill similarly should go to that Committee. Therefore, we feel that it would be better if honourable senators had a chance to study the Bill in the intervening period. Then, when we come back in February, definite attitudes can be taken on it and the fate of the Bill can be determined. For those reasons I move: 
That the debate be adjourned and that the resumed debate be made an order of the day for the first sitting day in February 1974. 
We just defeat the Bill. It seems to me that this is almost an impasse. It is a very difficult situation. I suggested a certain procedure. I would like to have  Senator Murphy  give an undertaking that the Bill will be brought back. I understand that it will be brought back into the House of Representatives. 
If it passes that chamber no doubt it will come back here in its emerging form now. Then the Senate can move to take that section out of the Act then. Is that right? 
Members of the Public Service will have to be admitted in the interim in terms of the new statute, but if that is excised subsequently they will be required to take the oath of allegiance or make an affirmation. 
I admit that for a period there would be an anomalous position because there would be 2 levels. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a third time. 
-The members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party desire to be associated with the motion of condolence, and in a particular way I personally desire to express my sympathy to  Mrs Cameron  and the members of  Dr Cameron's  family in their very great loss.  Dr Cameron,  as has been said, was a most distinguished surgeon from Queensland. He was a man who gave of his professional talents to the community and, in time of war, to the nation. In turn he gave of his sympathy, his experience and his love of people in the service of this Parliament. He was part of that group of people who have created a very proud tradition of a great Scottish clan- the Cameron Clan: There has never been a Federal parliament of Australia in which there has not been one member who carried the name 'Cameron'. I know that was one thing of which he was proud, and I think he would be proud that in the Parliament today there are so many who bear that name. We will all regret his passing. He was a man of gentle disposition. He and his good wife were very much involved in community work. These are facts of life which are not generally known, as people of that disposition would not want them to be known. But that was one of the aspects of their character which appealed most to those who knew them best. On my own behalf and on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party, I join in this motion of condolence to  Mrs Cameron  and the members of her family. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that a permanent national disaster organisation should be created, adequately structured financially and administratively, with joint Commonwealth and States participation. 
We have had this one on for 7 years but nobody would do anything about it. 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  Actually I essayed by interpolation to ask something that would be explainable by the AttorneyGeneral. I now ask it by way of a formal question. I refer to the investigation which has been initiated by the Attorney-General and which will, apparently, be conducted under the direction of the Crown Solicitor of Australia and ask: 
Is the Attorney-General able to say whether any report that is prepared will be presented to this Parliament or otherwise made public? 
-I am concerned and very disturbed at the propositions which have been placed before this chamber by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  He seems to contemplate, in the course of his arguments, a situation that when a proposal for a referendum is under consideration it should go to the people and their decision should be allowed to emerge immediately. That is a complete misreading of the Constitution. Under our system the Constitution does not provide that there shall be any referendum by way of petition originating with the people. The procedure is that there shall be initially a legislative process which is the passage of a Bill through both Houses. 
That is what is provided in the Constitution. There is no other method. 
The honourable senator seems to think that the Parliament is departing from its responsibilities if in any way that process is not insisted upon. We insist upon it. We insist that the legislative processes contemplated in the Constitution be strictly observed. After all, section 128 of the Constitution endows this chamber with tremendous power of authority in relation to referenda. The honourable senator puts the proposition that when a government decides to present a proposal for a referendum and it passes the House of Representatives then this chamber should willynilly and whatever happens acknowledge the decision of that House and let the people be heard. 
This chamber has its own right of initiating referenda proposals. The Australian Democratic Labor Party introduced its own referendum proposal in relation to incomes control. That Bill stood on the Senate notice paper. It was open to this chamber to pass that Bill. Had it done so, had the Bill gone to the House of Representatives, and had that House rejected it and it came back to the Senate and we passed it again, it would have been available to the sponsor of that Bill to go to the Governor-General and request him to put the proposal before the people. In other words this chamber has a tremendously powerful position as the initiating body in relation to a referendum. A fortiori- much more strongly- the Senate has, as part of the legislative process, a tremendously significant and important role which was contemplated by the Federation founders when they insisted that a referendum must be proceeded by the legislative process in which a Bill shall be presented in one House or the other and then pass both Houses. 
The Attorney-General is one who has protested day after day and year after year as to the importance of this chamber, the importance of the deliberative function of this chamber, the importance of the constitution of committees of investigation of this chamber and in a large measure took the initiative in having some of these committees established. It would be a very bad proposition if these situations were to be contemplated in theory and when the practical implications of them became apparent and they became an impediment to the will of the Government, they were to be cast aside. We insist upon the role of the Senate. We say that the Constitution has contemplated that a proposal for a referendum shall get the legislative attention of the Parliament before it is placed before the people. In other words the Parliament itself is to ensure that the propositions that go to the people shall be propositions that properly and correctly should be presented to them, and not willy-nilly should any proposition time and again go before the people by way of referendum. That is provided in the Constitution. As we insist on that, we insist on strict compliance with the constitutional Act. 
The call of the Senate is part of that solemn process which is the term which  Senator Murphy  used. This process is surrounded by all the circumscriptions and all the defences that it should have, because the amending of the Constitutionof the written document, the contract and compact of Federation- is a sacred arrangement and not likely to be disturbed and certainly not likely to be disturbed by a government electing through control in one House to by-pass the complete legislative process by compelling legislation through the Upper House and then saying to the people that the decision is theirs. In other words the Parliament is expected to give a proper parliamentary scrutiny and inspection of the proposed referendum before it goes to the people. That is contemplated in the Constitution. If we did less than that we should be recreant to the responsibilities that are ours under that document. For those reasons, as we did with other Bills, we take this stand in relation to the motion now before the House. We shall oppose it. 
I wish to make one or two observations in speaking to the amendment. It has been suggested that in some way the Senate, in taking the stand that it is taking, is intruding unduly, almost without authority and certainly quite indefensibly in the progress of a Constitution Alteration Bill. It is interesting to compare the provisions of section 128 of the Constitution with the provisions which deal with Bills which may lead to a double dissolution. Bills involving an amendment of the Constitution, if passed by the House and rejected twice by the Senate, may after a period be submitted to the Governor-General for the referendum proposal to be put to the people. In other words, if the Bill is rejected twice by the Senate, or the other House if the initiative comes from the Senate, the proposal can be put to the people by way of referendum. But there is no censure of the House which elects to reject the Bill twice. If an ordinary Bill is rejected twice, the Government can ask the Governor-General to dissolve both Houses, which would give the people a chance to pass judgment on the conduct of both Houses. The Senate can be dissolved and the people can be asked to pass judgment on the Senate and on the conduct of the Senate. That is not the case with a Constitution Alteration Bill which has as its primary objective that the proposal go before the people. A formula is provided by which that proposal can go before the people. Therefore, the widest possible scope and opportunity, in the case of Constitution alterations, is given to each House, including the Senate, to ensure that it plays its legislative role in the proper fashion and at the proper time. That is what we are doing in the course of the discussions on these proposals. 
The other minor point I wish to make is this: It is suggested that these Bills, having been passed by the House of Representatives, should be passed by the Senate so that the judgment of the people can be sought immediately. It is suggested that there should be no further intervention by way of legislative debate in this chamber or elsewhere in the Parliament. Let us look at the most recent proposal which came before the Parliament for a Constitution alteration. It was the Bill for a prices referendum. It was initiated in the House of Representatives. When it came to this place, it was met by the Democratic Labor Party's Bill for a referendum on prices and incomes. In other words, 2 propositions were before the Parliament. If we had not taken that initiative, the Government, in due time, would have put the prices only referendum to the people. Because the Senate required time to deal with the proposal, dealt with it and put a counterproposal, the House of Representatives finally altered its stand. It changed its point of view and put incomes as well as prices to the people. In other words, the judgment of the House of Representatives as to what should go to the people was affected, and affected dramatically, by the consideration given to the whole matter by the Senate. We determined what ultimately should go to the people. There is the value of consideration by this chamber of propositions such as the four which are now before us. In those circumstances it is presumptuous for people to claim that the Senate is almost trespassing beyond its powers by intervening and stultifying in some way the opinion of the House on a matter involving this fundamental question of alterations to the Australian Constitution. 
I feel that the distinguished Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  is holding a brief in this matter. He is one who, in the establishment of committees, in which he played a major part, has always held out for the power of the Senate, for its independence and for its right to function as a House of review and as a House to assess and study legislation and administrative actions. Now he comes out as the champion of this new process in which the Senate is not to be given a proper and leisurely opportunity to investigate and examine these Bills. Obviously that proposition is in the brief which the Attorney-General holds and which he is presenting to the Senate. None of the arguments which he advanced and none of the arguments which were advanced by junior counsel on his side are compelling. None of them are conclusive. I think that the Democratic Labor Party amendment moved by  Senator McManus,  which is receiving the support of the other Opposition parties- the Liberal Party and the Country Party -should receive the total endorsement of the Senate. We welcome that support. I hope that even at this stage Government senators may be persuaded to support the DLP amendment. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Greenwood  on behalf of the Opposition. There are few Bills more fundamental to the operation of our Constitution than the one which we are now asked to consider. It deals and goes to the whole contract of Federation and to the definition and redistribution of powers. I know that  Senator Murphy  in his second reading speech recited certain consultations which have taken place between the States and the Commonwealth and the Parliamentary draftsmen both institutions and also other consultations, but we are senators representing the States. We have to realise that the people are entitled to be informed before the referendum as to what are the implications of the vote that they are being asked to cast one way or the other. 
The Constitution provides that there shall be a short distribution of a pamphlet which will attempt to set out the implications of this proposal as seen by one side and by the other. But there must be a fairly complete dialogue between now and then, and the proper place for such a dialogue is obviously in this Parliament so that the representatives of the States in the Commonwealth Parliament- the senators assembled here- can investigate, examine and disclose what is implicit and what are the consequences of this legislation for the information of those who ultimately have to determine the redistribution of powers. For that reason, I think particularly in this case there is no justification whatsoever for any precipitate action in relation to the important and fundamental matter which is now before us for consideration. On those bases I very strongly- perhaps more strongly than I do on most occasions- support the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party finds itself in a slightly different position to both the Government and the Opposition. They are parties of much greater numerical strength. Therefore, their approach to the time which must be committed to debate in this chamber may be different to ours. We have a position of some determination in this chamber. I think that must be accepted as a mathematical fact. It is a position which demands that our Party give the maximum consideration to the legislation which comes before the chamber because in so many cases our vote can be decisive. We must accept that as it is accepted in this chamber. The legislative program of the Government is extraordinarily heavy and it is of a fundamental character. So much of the legislation coming here is of a nature which we have not seen before. It affects many areas of life in a very extreme way. Therefore, the attention of the Senate in the greatest possible depth to legislation of this character is a necessity. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party always tries to retain a physical presence in this chamber. That is not always easy with the small numbers which we have, with the demands from other areas and with our attempts to serve on committees. Very often our physical presence is out of proportion to our numerical strength. I have often noticed that we may have two or three members in the chamber when other parties, with much greater numbers, may have no more or may have even less. 
I am not doing that. Very often those members of other parties have committee commitments and things of that character which make it impossible for them to attend. 

 - Mr President, I am attempting to make my speech. 
In terms of the amendment circulated by  Senator Withers,  which was defeated, I move as an amendment to  Senator Murphy's  motion: 
1 ) In paragraph (2 ), leave out 'on Wednesdays, ': 
In paragraph (3), leave out 'at 6 p.m. on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, and 1 1 p.m. on Wednesdays', insert 'at 10.30 p.m. on Mondays and Tuesdays,5 p.m. on Thursdays, 1 1 p.m. on Wednesdays and 5 p.m. on Fridays'; 
In paragraph (4), leave out '3.30 p.m.', insert '2.30 p.m.'. 
The amendment is confusing in the reading, but I understand that it will have the desired effect. I think it will give expression to the developing feeling in the chamber, namely, that on Thursdays the Senate should adjourn at 5 p.m. Apart from that change, the amendment stands as it was. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 12.53 to 2 p.m. 
-The Bill before the chamber is perhaps different from the other proposed referendum Bills because while they deal with specific heads of power this Bill relates to the actual machinery of the Constitution itself and to the mode of altering the provisions of the Constitution. In that sense it is a much more fundamental Bill than any of the other referenda Bills that have already been presented. Therefore it must be regarded with the greatest seriousness by members of this chamber and by members of the Parliament generally. I feel that the approach of the Government in relation to these Bills can be considered as a total misconception of the very nature of the compact of federation. 
Federation was essentially a compact between 6 colonies, then becoming the States, to be participants in a Federal body under a written Constitution. In other words the identity and significance of the States was possibly more important than the identity and significance of the people who comprised the 6 States in the aggregate. That concept was maintained in the written Constitution and it has always been a fundamental part of it in the creation of this body which is here substantially to represent the States and to protect the States. Therefore any departure from that in any way particularly by this chamber is a departure from the primary and fundamental concept of the Constitution itself. Insofar as the Constitution is a solemn compact, a solemn contract, in which the States have this most important role, it seems to me to be basic logic that if that instrument is to be subject  to  change and if the States are to have a continuance of their primary significance there must be an overwhelming vote by the States as such for or against any alteration to the compact of federation, the Constitution itself. It would appear to me to be a departure that if we are not going to insist upon a vote by the majority of States to vary the Constitution but enable the referendum to be passed on an equality of State votes, together with a majority of the aggregate of the people 's votes it will be, to use my original term, a misconception of the very nature of the compact of federation. 
Having said that I think it is worth while to point out that the history of referenda in this country illustrates one or two significant things.  Senator Maunsell  referred to this matter very briefly. The first aspect is the extraordinary power, effect and influences of the major States. I have taken the figures for the referenda that have been held, apart from the conscription referendum and excluding the last referendum on prices and incomes and, I think, Aborigines. In 12 of those referenda the States voted three-three. These are the referenda on which I ask honourable senators to concentrate their attention. In 12 of the referenda held until 1972, excluding the conscription referendum, the States voted threethree. If the figures which I have taken out are correct, where the States voted three-three, New South Wales was on what I call the winning side on each occasion. That is, if the referendum was defeated New South Wales had voted no and if it was carried New South Wales had voted yes. New South Wales was on the correct side on the whole 12 occasions. Victoria was on the correct side on 10 occasions. Queensland has never been on the correct side. It has never had a win at all. South Australia has been on the correct side on 4 occasions, Western Australia on 3 occasions and Tasmania on 6 occasions. 
These figures indicate to me the tremendous and predominant influence of the 2 major States. Another interesting figure is that in ten of those 12 referenda to which I have referred New South Wales and Victoria voted the same way. Therefore on 10 occasions Victoria was on the winning side with New South Wales and on the 2 occasions when it voted against New South 
Wales it was on the losing side. The evident lesson which can be drawn from those figures is the very powerful and predominant position of the major States. 
-No, I am talking to the Bill concerning the mode of altering the Constitution. The Bills have been taken in a slightly different order from the one originally contemplated. Therefore if we are now going to cut down the necessity for a majority in four of the 6 States and alter it to three, this will give an even more powerful influence to the 2 major States. 
I think that the representatives of the minor States in this chamber should be very alert to the implications of the proposal which are implicit in the legislation which is before us. It is on that basis that I appeal to honourable senators to give their consideration seriously to this Bill and to see whether there is any element of prudence or wisdom at all or whether there is not such a fundamental change being effected in the provisions of the Constitution by this means that the original concept of federation will be lost and destroyed completely. It is a fact of statistical life that a State such as New South Wales or Victoria with a big population now will continue to expand out of proportion and that the gap between them and smaller States will become even wider as the seasons creep along the years. For that reason the position is going to be aggravated as time goes on. In these circumstances I think it is unwise- extremely unwise- for this proposal even to go to the people. I do think, however, that if that is the intention of the Government, the people will be heard on it. But I think that the people in the small States should be very careful in this regard. I think even those who are the residents and the electors in the larger States would not be very keen to feel that they had such a controlling and predominant position in the Federation as would dislocate and disturb the whole balance originally contemplated in the prime document. 
Therefore the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party is this: We will support what Senate Withers said the Opposition would propound. We will support the second reading of the Bill. We support that concept which would give all Territorians the right to vote on propositions altering the Constitution because, after all, variations in the Constitution are matters of great concern to them. They are Australians and they should have the right. Although we will support the second reading of the Bill, at the Committee stage we will support the amendment which has been projected by  Senator Withers  to provide for the restoration and maintenance of the 4 to 2 ratio and not resort to the 3 to 3 distribution in which we see such fundamental dangers. I do not think the occasion calls at this stage for a longer speech than this. 
We say that if you are going to disturb the Constitution, if it is a document which is so important in determining the relationships between the Commonwealth and the States and the States inter se, it should only be done by a majority of the States indicating in a clear and decisive manner their preparedness to have that variation made. It is not fair, it is not equitable and I think it is historically unwise to permit one major State and two other States to be able to determine what shall be the destinies of this nation. If this is a compact primarily between the States I think it must take a majority of the States to disturb it. After all, in this chamber, which is a States chamber, by the nature of its constitution if a resolution is propounded and there is a division of equal numbers the resolution is lost. That is in pursuance of the concept of federation. We require a majority here before a resolution is carried. I think we can and should do no less in relation to an alteration of the Constitution. I therefore support the proposal which was enunciated by  Senator Withers  and which it is indicated will be supported by the Australian Country Party. 
I wish to refer to a few comments made by  Senator Murphy  at the second reading stage. There was a misconception in his mind as to the role the Senate is required to play in relation to a constitutional alteration. As I said on another occasion, there is no provision in our Constitution for amendments to the Constitution to be initiated by motion of the people at large, by petition, by resolution or by any approach at all. The procedure laid down is that there must be a prior legislative process. As a result of that process, the proposition then goes to the people. In other words, the Constitution contemplates that a proposition, whether propounded by the government of the day, or, as is also contemplated in the Constitution, by the House of Representatives or this chamber, should go through the legislative process as an examination of the desirability of putting that proposition to the people. Obviously that was contemplated in the Constitution. The legislative procedure is insisted upon, and it is after the passage of a Bill to the status of an Act that the proposition goes before the people by referendum. Had any other mode been contemplated, it would have been incorporated. 
That imposes a very definite duty upon the Senate, the other House and the Parliament, namely, that proposals initiating referenda shall receive the scrutiny of the Houses of the Parliament. The Constitution also wisely provides that, if for some reason a proposition should not be able to find passage through both Houses, the propounder is not inhibited from presenting it to His Excellency the Governor-General, who may then elect to present it to the people. That is a different procedure from that prescribed for ordinary legislation, where a double dissolution may be the culmination and the only way of getting the voice of the people registered. That does not apply in respect of constitutional alterations. An alternative method is propounded by which, if a Bill is twice rejected, the propounder may take it to the Governor-General and have his referendum considered by the people. 
Therefore, the role of this Parliament is clear. It is clearly set out and it imposes a responsibility on us. It is quite wrong to say that, because we are insisting on the prior scrutiny in terms of the Constitution and because we are insisting on carrying out our duties, in some way we are inhibiting the right of the people to be heard, as if that were the only point. That right emerges only after the Parliament, or one House, has scrutinised the legislation and it has gone through a complete or partial legislative process. In addition, what we are doing here is carrying out scrupulously the duty which is imposed on us under the Constitution. It is quite unwarranted and improper to suggest that, by insisting upon the discharge of our duties, in some way we are impeding the expression of the will of the people. I do hope that  Senator Murphy  will acknowledge that we are discharging with scrupulousness the role which is imposed on us and which we elect to discharge at this time and in this way. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator Withers's)  be agreed to. 
-I intervene in this debate to make only a limited contribution because of a misconception that now seems to have been bruited abroad in the Senate by Government senators who have addressed themselves to this Bill. The impression that is being given by speakers on the Government side is that a proposition for an amendment to the Constitution having been presented, all this Parliament should do is to let that proposition go to the people for their decision. They suggest that there should be no intermediate proceedings but that the matter then should be given to the people for their ultimate decision by way of referendum. I think that that is a dangerous misconception. It is a dangerous misreading of the Constitution and a dangerous misreading of the powers of the Parliament in relation to an amendment to the Constitution. After all, a number of things emerge from an examination of section 128 of the Constitution. It is stated that a proposal for a referendum can be presented from either House of the Parliament. Section 128 of the Constitution states: 
The proposed law for the alteration thereof must be passed by an absolute majority of each House of the Parliament . . . 
It goes on in the second paragraph to state: 
But if either House passes any such proposed law by an absolute majority, and the other House rejects or fails to pass it . . . 
And so it continues. In other words, the Constitution lays down firstly, that a Bill must go through the legislative process and either pass through both Houses of Parliament or be twice rejected before it can go to a referendum. In other words, this Parliament is given a very definitive place and role in the presentation and passage of a proposed constitutional alteration Bill. Secondly, it is stated that the proposal may come from either House. After all, the House of Representatives is usually under the complete control of the Government of the day. This chamber, as is the case at the present moment, is sometimes not under the control of the Government of the day. Yet the Constitution contemplates that this chamber could pass a Bill for a proposed constitutional amendment and it could go to the other place. It would not be a government measure. 
As a matter of fact, the Australian Democratic Labor Party presented a Bill for an incomes referendum at the same time the Government presented a Bill for a prices referendum. If that Bill had been passed by the Senate and gone to the House of Representatives, that House probably would have rejected it. If the Senate had insisted on the Bill and passed it again, it would have been within the ability of this chamber to present its proposed constitutional amendment to the Governor-General for presentation to the people. If the Government states that when it presents a Bill for a referendum it should not be opposed but that the people should speak, I challenge the Government on this point: If we on this side of the Senate pass a Bill for a proposed amendment to the Constitution and it is rejected in the other place and, we pass it again and it is again rejected, would the Government resist that legislation and say that we were not entitled to put our proposal to the people? On the Government's own proposition, it would say that this chamber is entitled to have its proposal put to the people as it claims that its proposal should be put and should not be resisted in the Senate. 
In other words, what the Constitution says is that there must be, as it were, a primary scrutiny of proposed referenda proposals by the legislatureby the elected persons. Of course, the idea is that irresponsible or undesirable amendments or amendments that fundamentally might contradict general principles might easily proceed and be put before the people if there is not a prior considered examination of the proposals by this chamber and /or another chamber. That is what is contemplated in the Constitution and what is laid down in it. If we were to pursue any path but that which is laid down in the Constitution, we would then ourselves be failing to discharge a responsibility which has been entrusted to us and, in fact, imposed upon us under section 128 of the Constitution. Therefore, it is important that the people should know that this chamber, approaching this matter as it does, has discharged a high constitutional obligation. It is not denying an opportunity to the people to be heard because ultimately the people can be and will be heard. What we are doing is to examine a proposition with the best ability at our disposal, with the skills which we may possess and the advice which may be tendered to us. We have to examine the proposals in this debating chamber so that when the matter goes to the people for consideration and for determination, we in the Senate, by the proper presentation of the proposition, can assist the people to come to what we consider to be the best decision. 
I would say that any honourable senator who thinks otherwise in relation to the passage of this Bill completely misconceives his individual duty and completely misconceives the role that the Senate, the House of Representatives and the Parliament at large must play in the presentation and passage of constitutional amendments. Let that be made quite clear without any qualification or equivocation. Let the people realise that as we consider this Bill and other constitutional bills in depth and at leisure and examine them in this prior way before they go to the people we are discharging our constitutional obligations. I think the people will understand that that is the only way in which these matters can be properly put before them for decision. I believe that there is an obligation on all senators not merely to use a political ploy which would have the effect of destroying the effective participation, constitutionally contemplated, of this chamber in the passage of referenda proposals. If we were to be parties to such a manoeuvre we would be recreant to the trust which is ours, imposed upon us under the Constitution as senators representing the States in the federation. 
-On a previous occasion when legislation in relation to the establishment of a superior court was before this chamber I indicated as my personal attitude that I favoured the concept of the superior court. In so doing I was not necessarily speaking for the Australian Democratic Labor Party or expressing the view of my Party. As I rise to speak on this Superior Court of Australia Bill I express a somewhat parallel point of view. I still adhere to the concept of the establishment of a superior court. Again in that regard I do not necessarily project the opinion of my Party. But the attitude of the Party in relation to this Bill- whether or not it agrees with the concept of the superior court as I do- is that it does not agree with the establishment of the superior court in the terms under which it is created in this Bill. Therefore my Party proposes to vote against the Bill at the second reading stage. 
The content of the Bill has been substantially outlined by  Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood.  I think it would be unduly trespassing on the time and the indulgence of the Senate were I to try to recapitulate. Many of the things which have been pointed out by these two distinguished lawyers find reflection in my own thoughts and also reflect some of the objection that I have in relation to the Bill. In approaching this proposed legislation I am primarily concerned with the intention to establish a superior court which shall have passed over to it jurisdiction which now lies in other areas. The bankruptcy and insolvency jurisdiction is now administered substantially through a federal court and also through State supreme court judges sitting in bankruptcy jurisdiction. The matrimonial causes jurisdiction is administered by State supreme courts and the industrial law is administered by the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
But in addition in this Bill it is contemplated that there shall be new areas of conferred jurisdiction. Those areas are set out in clause 13 of the Bill. A number of divisions of the court are contemplated. There are to be more divisions than originally were contemplated in the primary legislation when it was introduced by a previous government. The administrative division, the commercial division and the general division are three substantially new areas of conferred jurisdiction. It concerns me that as we look at the legislative program of the Government we see coming forward a mass of legislation which is of a fundamental character. It will affect the lives of the people and the structure of our society. Then we see the very vast changes which are contemplated in the whole Australian way of life. Now there is to be created a superior court to which jurisdiction in relation to those areas will be conferred. But, as yet, in relation to those areas there has not been a delineation by this Parliament of what will be the ultimate form of the legislation, what rights will be defined and what will be the form and content of family law. Yet the superior court is to be established and is to have the whole jurisdiction over and inspection of the operation of those segments of the law. I think it would be imprudent at this stage to enable such a structure to be created with this conferred jurisdiction when the Parliament does not know what will be the ultimate form of the legislation. 
Let us look at family law. This is a matter which involves not only a very vexed social question but also a very vexed legal question. The general question of divorce is already under reference to a standing committee of this Parliament. Then we have the Family Law Bill which is before the Senate. Similarly, it has been referred to a committee. It seems to me to be completely logical that we should not establish the superior court until we comprehend an inclusive Bill on family law and know what will be the new approach, if any, to matrimonial causes. Bills relating to the matters I have mentioned should be discussed and determined by this Parliament before we create the proposed court which will be the instrument for the supervision of the administration of those bodies of law. Similarly we have the contemplated Bill on human rights. This proposed court will be vested with jurisdiction in that most sensitive and important field. That being the case, Parliament will help to create a jurisdiction not knowing just how wide will be the area over which the court will be asked to preside and the areas into which it will penetrate judicially. 
Finally we have this enormous body of alterations in commercial law. The creation of many new corporations such as the Australian Industry 
Development Corporation, the National Investment Fund, the Trade Practices Act and legislation of that character will have a most important effect on the commercial life and structure of Australia. This court will be vested with jurisdiction in those areas which are now undefined until the legislation finally- if it does- passes through this Parliament. Therefore at the present time it seems completely inopportune that we should create a structure with ill-defined areas of jurisdiction which the Parliament could not possibly lay out at this stage. The more appropriate thing would be, when we have this substantive body of law finally approved by the Parliament, to look at how it will be administered and how it will be judicially scrutinised. Then we will be in a better position to decide whether a further federal court should properly, logically and effectively be created to judicially administer this body of law. For those reasons and because the Government itself is author of the present situation with this mass of legislation, I think that in prudence we must lay aside the judicial structure which will follow the introduction of such law. Only when the law is finally adopted by the Parliament will we see whether the present judicial structure and division of responsibility between existing federal courts and the supreme courts of the States is adequate to handle all these new areas plus the present areas which are distributed between federal and State courts or whether some new and different superior court should be established. In those circumstances while I personally agree with the concept of the superior court, my Party, being unresolved on the matter, is not prepared to support the legislation in its present form. We will oppose the Bill at the second reading. 
I hope I have not misled the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  We did have in mind that we would support the Bill at the second reading stage and then adjourn it from then on. If our point of view was made known in that way, I thought that, subject to consultation with my Party, this would achieve the same purpose. The matter would be still unresolved and the legislation would not pass, which is our intent. All that would be expressed, perhaps, would be my Party's acceptance of the principle of the superior court without adopting this legislation. I sincerely hope that I have not misled the Minister. I hope that this can be resolved because a misunderstanding like that is unfortunate. 
I intervene in this debate in relation to this whole matter for the first time. The matter before the Senate is, of course, one of very great consequence. It stems from a series of actions which are most reprehensible and must invoke the condemnation of the whole Parliament. We are seeing now a situation in which the greatest confusion has been caused, in which there is very grave doubt as to whether a certain person is or is not a member of this chamber, as to what are the consequences of that and whether or not that gentleman was or was not entitled to participate in certain deliberations here at the end of last week. All those things have been precipitated by something which could only be described as a grave violation of the traditions of the Parliament and an attempt to induce a person from one party to come across, to abandon his position so that the relative strengths in the Parliament could be redetermined. Those things are of very great consequence and must bring an element of very deep concern to all members of the Parliament. 

 Senator Murphy has proposed that the matter as to the vacancy should be determined by the High Court sitting as a court of disputed returns. The first matter that comes in consequence is this- and I think  Senator Murphy  said this-that in looking at the section of the Constitution under which the Senate itself may determine the question of a vacancy until and unless otherwise provided, the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  would argue that as the Electoral Act has been passed under the relevant section the Senate, to use his term, has exhausted its own power to determine this matter. I think that is a proposition which, whilst it was repeated time and again by  Senator Murphy  without any substantial support, if any, is one that cannot be sustained. The section of the Constitution uses the permissive word 'may', and on any interpretation of that word, on the authorities in the High Court and elsewhere, that permissive or facultative term is one that must be given its ordinary meaning unless there is substantial evidence to the contrary. The authorities in relation to this matter under debate are not many but at least there is a very current authority. It is a very modern authority issued this year. 
What I am arguing is that the Senate has the power under the section of the Constitution - 
The Senate has the power under section 47 of the Constitution either to make the decision whether it will sit in judgment itself on the question of a vacancy or whether in a particular case it will pass that judgment over to the High Court sitting as a court of disputed returns. It may elect in its discretion to do one or the other. The authority I quote is from a recent textbook called 'The Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia', annotated. The distinguished authors are R. D. Lumb, barrister and solicitor of the High Court of Australia, Reader in Law, University of Queensland, and K. W. Ryan, barrister-at-law, University of Queensland. This book was published this year, 1 974. Because one part of what I am going to cite may tell to some extent in favour of the honourable senator involved in this matter I propose to cite the whole section. It reads: 
Disputed Elections 
Until the Parliament otherwise provides, any question respecting the qualification of a senator or of a member of the House of Representatives, or respecting a vacancy in either House of the Parliament, and any question of a disputed election to either House, shall be determined by the House in which the question arises. 
That is section 47 of the Constitution. This is the comment of the learned authors. 
Under the lex et  consuetudo parliamenti  each House has control over its members and may decide questions as to their qualifications, elections, and other matters affecting the proceedings of Parliament. However, s 47 allows the Parliament to adopt a different procedure for determining these questions. 
Under Part XVIII of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, a Court of Disputed Returns is established. This court shall be either the High Court, or the Supreme Court of the State (in which the election is held) if the matter is referred to it by the High Court. The Court of Disputed Returns has the jurisdiction to decide the validity of an election or return. It has various powers, including the power to compel attendance of witnesses, to declare an election void, and to declare any person duly elected who was not returned as elected. A copy of the order of the court is sent to the House concerned. Section 20 1 would seem to make the court's decision mandatory, for it provides: 
Effect shall bc given to any decision of the Court as follows: 
If any person returned is declared not to have been duly elected he shall cease to be a  Senator or  Member of the House. 
If any person not returned is declared to have been duly returned, he may take his scat accordingly. 
If any election is declared absolutely void, a new election shall be held. 
As to other questions, viz, questions concerning vacancies or qualifications of a member (Le., which do not involve the validity of an election or a return), the House in which the question arises may refer the matter to the Court of Disputed Returns. This means that in these matters each House retains the power to decide whether to deal with the matter itself or to refer it to the court 
I repeat the last sentence which reads: 
This means that in these matters each House retains the power to decide whether to deal with the matter itself or to refer it to the court. 
-Wait a minute. I said I would read the whole section. The next part might comfort the honourable senator somewhat. It reads: 
However, as these are essentially legal questions it is to be expected that they will be referred to the court. The court has similar powers to those which may be exercised by it when determining a disputed election, and in addition, the power to declare that any person was not capable of being chosen on sitting as a  Senator or  member of the House, and to declare that a vacancy exists. 
In other words, the learned authors say, in spite of the protestations of the Attorney-General, that the Senate has not exhausted its power to deal with this matter, if it elects to do so, merely because it passes over concurrent jurisdiction to the court of disputed returns. That is the first thing. The question is that the Senate has this power if it elects to use it. The next logical question is: Is this a matter in which the Senate should so proceed? We have seen this Senate act in matters of privilege. We have seen journalists arraigned before this chamber. Matters have been referred to the Committee of Privileges, which is the Senate sitting in another place and in another guise, a report being brought back and this Senate then sitting in judgment and confirming the investigation of that Committee. 
You do not know what comes out of them. There were interpretations that were required in the matter I have in mind. 
There were legal interpretations that went to a layman committee- the Committee of Privileges of this Senate. This Senate sat in final judgment in an adoption of the report of that Committee. Nobody could say that one matter I have in mind, the recent matter of the 2 journalists, involved a situation in the Senate as important and as serious as this one is today. That matter involved the action of 2 journalists who prematurely had reported the contents of a parliamentary committee report. They were cited for that. In that matter the Senate said 'We are competent to deal with this ourselves', deputing the investigational committee of the Senate. In this matter where the very good name of the Senate is concerned, where the inviolability of its proceedings is involved, surely the Senate is entitled to take upon itself the responsibility of determining this matter if it elects to do so. 
I hold strongly to the view that the Senate has that residual power. It has not abandoned it and it has not surrendered it totally. In a particular circumstance in a proper case and in the appropriate situation it is not only able to do that but, it is also required and is under a duty so to exercise its power and authority. There is too much of a tendency in these days for Parliament to surrender its power to bodies outside the precincts of these halls. Parliament is the elected body. It is the supreme body in the Commonwealth of Australia and at times it must accept all the responsibilities that go with that high office and high position. This is such a case. 
I do not wish to speak at length. But there is one aspect of this matter that concerns me very greatly. It affects the situation in which the honourable senator whose name is concerned in this matter has involved himself or in which he has been involved. There was some dispute as to whether  Senator Gair  was or ceased to be a member of the Senate as at a certain date, whether it was 1 4 March, 2 1 March or 3 April. Apparently, the matter remains unresolved. If the honourable senator was not, in fact, a member of the Senate, was not entitled to take his seat here and, more particularly, if he knew that that was the situation, he has involved himself in the possibility of an action at law by any complainant who may proceed by way of civil action against him, with a very high recovery of damages resulting for every person who so elects to proceed against him. 
It can read 2 ways. It can read as being any person who elects to proceed. I do not subscribe altogether to the proposition that once one action has been brought against him, the whole matter is then estopped. 
I am glad that the honourable senator made that point. This is not a criminal or a quasi-criminal proceeding. This is an action for the recovery of damages. Therefore, the situation of autrefois convict does not apply. If it is a criminal or a quasi-criminal proceeding and a person is convicted, he then raises that as a defence in a subsequent action. But this is a civil matter. It is what might be called a 'common informer matter' and I would imagine the actions could be interminable. 
I do not know. Let met leave aside all the questions involving the quantum of damages to which  Senator Gair  might be liable. The fact is that under the circumstances that I have mentioned, if he were not entitled to take his seat, if he did, in fact, take his seat and particularly if he knew that he was not entitled so to do, then he becomes liable to an action at law. One of the pieces of evidence that would be adjuced against  Senator Gair  in any such proceeding would be, of course, his admission in his letter of 3 April in which he himself acknowledged that he had not been a member of the Senate since 14 March. 
Let us look at the circumstances in which that letter was prepared. It is obvious that we do not know about them. It was prepared by people who were around  Senator Gair  and by people who had an interest in sustaining the proposition that he had ceased to be a member as at a certain date before the writs were issued in Queensland. The prime purpose of that letter written by those who were then around  Senator Gair  and advising him- apparently there were such peoplewas to establish their proposition for their purposes and for their ends - 
It is obvious. 
I think the inference is irresistible and inescapable. If that is so, it means that in order to achieve that end, those who were advising the honourable senator and who may have prepared the letter for him, or who may have suggested that the letter be written, were advising  Senator Gair  to do something which incriminated him and which rendered him liable to legal proceedings. This was a situation they were prepared to bring about to achieve the end and purpose that they had in mind. I think that if I have assessed the position correctly that would be a most reprehensible course of action when a man, who apparently did not - 
I am saying that no layman, uninstructed by legal counsel, would be able to assess the implications of that position. It was fairly obvious - 
-Exactly. I would say that  Senator Gair  had no independent legal counsel advice. Apparently, he was induced, persuaded or encouraged to sign a self-incriminating document that rendered him liable to legal proceedings. If that is the type of conduct of those around him- more particularly, of those people who were professionally qualified in the law- it is most reprehensible conduct and is to be condemned. I think that is the very serious implication that arises in this situation. 
Having said that, I wish to move on to another aspect of the matter. I am supporting this amendment which purports to declare that  Senator Gair  was a member of the Senate as at a certain date. 
No. I am saying this: I personally would wish to see this matter resolved. Whilst the matter remains undetermined, it means that the people of Queensland are not aware whether they have 10 senators or 9 senators to represent them. Therefore, surely the Senate has an obligation to determine that question and to determine it immediately. It is within the competence of the Senate so to determine. I was disposed - (Honourable senators interjecting)- 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, may I have some silence? I cannot be heard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)- Senator Byrne,  I think you draw the cross fire yourself. However, from now on I will endeavour to protect you. 
I was saying that my disposition was that in order to clarify this position and in order to determine the situation an amendment might well have been moved in addition to  Senator Withers  amendment stating that this chamber itself make a declaration that  Senator Gair  is not longer a member of the Senate. Obviously, the documents indicate- I think that  Senator Gair's  own public presentations indicate- that he regarded himself as no longer being a member of the Senate. All that is in question is the date of resignation. That is in dispute. Therefore, I say that an obligation rests upon the Senate for it to determine this matter as soon as possible so that the position can be clarified. I have little doubt that  Senator Withers'  amendment will be carried. It will receive the support of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 1 have in mind that perhaps tomorrow I might consider moving a further motion for a declaration by the Senate that  Senator Gair  is not a member of it. I think that it is something that he himself would welcome. Obviously, it is something that is concerning him because in the documents he indicates that he thinks that he is not longer a member. He obviously wished to sever his connection and accept another post. He has been left in a position of uncertainty which the Senate can easily resolve. I think that there is a duty upon us to resolve the question as soon as possible. 
I finish on this note: If the Government wished to increase its numbers in the Senate it was not necessary to descend to this type of reprehensible subterfuge. The Government already had prepared the machinery for a double dissolution of the Parliament. If it felt it had the confidence of the people, over the last few months it could have gone to the Governor-General and asked for a double dissolution which would have tested the popular feeling in relation to the Senate. The Government could have done that if it had been confident that it could get the support of the people and gain a corresponding increase in its numbers in the Senate. But instead of having the machinery ready and showing that it was prepared to go to the people, it was prepared to use this indefensible method to persuade somebody to leave the Parliament. There is little doubt that that is the inescapable conclusion. For these reasons, I support the amendment moved by  Senator Withers  and indicate that I will give consideration to moving a substantive motion for a declaration by the Senate that, in fact, a vacancy exists thus letting the matter be finally resolved. 

 -Mr President, as a matter of privilege, I wish to move a motion. As you know,  Mr President,  a matter of privilege can be raised at any time as an intervention in the business of the chamber. Standing order 1 18 states: 
Whenever a Matter or Question directly concerning the Privileges of the Senate, or of any Committee or Member thereof has arisen since the last sitting of the Senate, a Motion calling upon the Senate to take action thereon may be moved, without Notice, and shall, until decided, unless the Debate be adjourned, suspend the consideration of other Motions as well as Orders of the Day: 
Provided that precedence over other business shall not be given to any Motion concerning Privilege if, in the opinion of the  President,  a prima facie case of breach of Privilege has not been made out or the matter has not been raised at the earliest opportunity. 
The matter that I wish to raise concerns the vacancy which occurs in the Senate. 
I want to establish my right to move a motion. I move: 
That this Senate, having considered the matter of Vincent Clair Gair's appointment as Ambassador of the Australian Government to the Republic of Ireland, resolves that his place in the Senate bc declared now vacant. 
So when we consider all these matters as to privilege, I suggest that it is highly improper for this chamber to enter upon a renewal of the previous debate, as if it were a matter of privilege which comes within the scope of standing order 1 18, which would continue possibly for a day in this vital week of the Senate's sittings. Already we have devoted more than a day and a half to this general question. I submit that within the terms of the standing order precedence over other business should not be given on the ground that the matter has not been raised at the earliest opportunity. I fortify that submission by referring to the fact that the Senate has deliberately dealt with the question under another headingnot privilege- as late as last night. No new matter can be suggested which is relevant either to the question of resignation or to the question of forfeiture. I suggest that the practical dispatch of business, and prudence in the regulation of our affairs, should dictate that in this week when we expect to have to deal with most vital matters concerning the whole Parliament and therefore the Government of this country, we should not devote another day to a discussion of the matter raised by  Senator Byrne.  I suggest that within the terms of standing order 118 it is for you,  Mr President,  to decide the precedence that should be given to this motion. The motion having been announced, I submit it should be ruled that it should be regarded as a notice of motion to be brought on for debate if and when time is available to us after the dispatch of other most urgent business this week. 
All Questions of Order and matters of Privilege which have arisen since the last sitting of the Senate, until decided, suspend the consideration and decision of every other Question. 

 Senator Wright made a point about the effect this motion would have on the deliberations with which we have to deal. As  Senator Wright  aptly put it, we have to deal with matters of extreme importance. Nothing would be of greater importance than the matter of referring the Parliament to the people. I know of nothing else that could be of greater importance. The other point I put forward for your consideration,  Mr President,  is this: Is this a new matter which has arisen since the last sitting of the Senate yesterday? Whatever we might have thought about one another in the debate yesterday, neither side could have criticised the other side for not debating very fully the whole question of an officer of my Department. 
I wish to speak to the point of order. In the first place, in an examination of the Standing Orders, the question is: Is this matter the same as that raised and determined yesterday? My recollection of this matter is that you,  Mr President,  sought the guidance of this chamber, you being in very grave doubt as to what was the position regarding a vacancy in the chamber. You asked the Senate to resolve that matter for you. The Senate considered the matter and the resolution finally did nothing whatever to assist you. Your question was: 'Is there a vacancy and, if so, when did it arise?' The resolution that the Senate carried merely said that  Senator Gair  was a senator as at a certain date. The resolution did not answer either of the points which you specifically put to the Senate for determination. There I consider that the resolution of the Senate said only that  Senator Gair  was a member of this place at a certain date. But whether he still remains a member today is the matter that is the subject of the motion I have proposed. Therefore it is totally different from the proposition discussed and resolved by the Senate. On the question of privilege - 
With respect I am addressing myself to one of the propositions presented by  Senator Wright.  I know, as we all know, that there is an extraordinarily important matter of business before this Parliament but the point of my motion is that the Senate has an obligation to ensure that its composition, its constitution, is adequately and properly determined, and always determined, and secondly, as the House representing the States, that all the States have their equality of representation. The Senate is operating at the moment and the State of Queensland is in doubt as to whether in fact at the present time it is represented by 9 senators or 10 senators. Therefore to dismiss this matter as of no consequence in my opinion is quite improper. This is a matter of very great consequence and it should be resolved. I know, as  Senator Willesee  said, that nobody can predict what will happen. If there is a double dissolution of this Parliament I suppose that the question becomes academic but as  Senator Willesee  said, no one can predict - 
That is right. I was attempting to do that. This is a matter of consequence.  Senator Wright's  argument was that it is a matter of no consequence against the background of the important questions that are being presented to the Parliament in these few days.  Senator Wright  suggested, therefore, that this matter might be the subject of a notice of motion.  Mr President,  you are looking to this chamber for guidance. You are in a particularly difficult position yourself. Also, in fairness, the person concerned,  Senator Gair,  is in very grave doubt and wants the question to be resolved. 
He is in very grave doubt as to his actual position.  Senator Gair  regards himself as no longer being a member of the Senate. He presented a letter here which was subject to interpretation. He regards himself no longer as being a member of the Senate but the  President  is not able to determine whether that is the fact. 
In fairness to  Senator Gair,  who wants to know his position, in fairness to this Senate, in fairness to the State of Queensland and in fairness to the - 
He is entitled to know. We are entitled to know and the honourable senator who interjected is entitled to know. 
You do not know. If  Senator McLaren  knows and can dogmatise on it I suggest that he tender his advice to you,  Mr President,  because you are looking for guidance on this matter. In those circumstances I think that there is a duty on the Senate to determine as early as possible the composition of this chamber and the status of  Senator Gair.  I can see no reason why, as there is a consensus that  Senator Gair  is not a member of this chamber and it is only a technical disposition to determine the matter by resolution, everybody in the Senate should not be anxious to find that  Senator Gair  is no longer a member of this chamber and resolve the matter. In other words, we have to cut the Gordian knot and I see no reason why this motion should not be supported. 
Provided that precedence over other business shall not be given to any Motion concerning Privilege if, in the opinion of the  President,  a prima facie case of breach of Privilege has not been made out or the matter has not been raised at the earliest opportunity. 
Do not let it be supposed that in any way I am canvassing your ruling,  Sir, but  I felt obliged to draw attention to this specific phrase in the standing order when you proceeded to deal with the matter on the first branch of that proviso- that is on the question of a prima facie case being made out. I suggest that our Standing Orders make your opinion determinative unless your reference of the vacancy question the other day relegated the matter to the Senate. The second branch of that proviso was my point of order, specifically the words 'or the matter has not been raised at the earliest opportunity'. 
I cannot hear you. 
In addressing my remarks to the proposition which  Senator Wright  is now canvassing, the first question is whether or not the resolution of yesterday, carried by this Senate, determined a certain situation which was that  Senator Gair  was a member of this Senate as at 3 April. Therefore is not this the first opportunity to determine his present position since the determination of that question yesterday? In other words, the first opportunity is not one that stems back from the initiation of this matter but from the first determination by this Senate of something relating to his position and status in this chamber. This is the first opportunity thereafter to make a determination of this character. I am submitting therefore that this resolution is completely within the terms of the contemplation of the second paragraph of the standing order to which  Senator Wright  has referred and is therefore in order. 
Whatever is the honourable senator's positionhe may be able to give some notice to bring his matter on- he cannot bring himself within the precedence provisions to suggest that this has arisen since the last sitting of the Senate. How does the honourable senator dare suggest that he could not have moved it and had it dealt with then? He has said that it could be done and that he had it in his mind. There was a debate here on this issue. Nothing at all has happened to which the honourable senator has pointed; there is no new fact or circumstance since the last sitting of the Senate to which he can point. I submit with great respect that the point taken by  Senator Wright  on this occasion is correct. 
Senate, that could well be determined as the earliest opportunity for raising the matter. 
-1 was interrupted by a point of order when I was making my case. 
I can appreciate the difficulty which confronts you,  Mr President,  and the other honourable senators. I am prepared to accede to the suggestion that I should convert my resolution into a notice of motion that I shall move on the next day of sitting. 
I ask for leave to give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move accordingly. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this Senate, having considered the matter of Vincent Clair Gair's appointment as Ambassador of the Australian Government to the Republic of Ireland, resolves that his place in the Senate be declared now vacant. 
-I move: 
That Business of the Senate Notice of Motion No. 1 standing in my name be postponed until the next day of sitting. 
Speaking to this motion, and I do so without leave, I would like briefly to say that this is a technical motion which may well be resolved by the developing circumstances. If by any chance those circumstances should not emerge as we anticipate, the motion would be necessary and desirable. In those circumstances I move for its postponement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I desire to intervene in this debate because I think that all Queensland members of Parliament are conscious of the enormous disaster that struck Queensland and subsequently struck the northern part of New South Wales. At the time the flood struck Brisbane I was overseas. I flew back from northern Pakistan to Brisbane. I asked the captain of the international aircraft on which I was travelling whether he would be good enough to make a circuit of Brisbane. He obtained permission to do so and made 2 circuits of the city. The extent of the devastation that I saw was appalling. One was unable to recognise suburbs which are normally easily identifiable in that city where the convolutions of the river make it easy to establish where the suburbs are. At the weekend I took the opportunity to go around the various suburbs of Brisbane which were badly affected. On the Sunday I went to Ipswich where the devastation was enormous. I went to one section where a bank of the Bremer River was as bare as the floor that is now before me. It was pointed out that 7 houses had stood in this spot but they had completely disappeared. Not even a  stump  was left from those houses on that bank of the river. 
Subsequently I called a meeting of all Queensland members of the Federal Parliament and Queensland senators who were readily and reasonably available in Brisbane. I regret that members of the Government did not respond to my - 
Very well, but unfortunately we do not have the control of the money. However, I called this meeting and invited honourable members. Some said that they would like to come along but were unable to do so. 
The meeting was called and we presented certain propositions to the Premier of Queensland and to the Federal 
Treasurer,  Mr Crean.  The propositions were: Immediate relief, domestic restoration, industrial and commercial restoration, taxation relief, moratorium provisions and institutional restoration. Subsequently we had occasion to take the matter further, as I will indicate for the consolation of honourable members who have interjected. We paid a tribute to the generosity of the aid which had been given through the Federal Government, the Queensland Government and the Lord Mayor of Brisbane and the work that these 3 bodies had done in accumulating aid and distributing it in an efficient manner. HoweVer, I indicated at that stage that a further meeting of all Federal members, when those from the more far distant parts of the State were available, and senators similarly situated, would be called. That meeting was called in Canberra when the Parliament resumed and as a result we took the matter up with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  That meeting had called for certain matters to receive attention. I do not have with me the copy of a letter that we wrote subsequently to the Prime Minister, on 27 March, but the following are the matters embodied in that letter: 
Repayment terms for loans made to small business should be extended from the proposed 3-5 years to 10 years. 
Small contractors and small mining operators should be put in the category of small business. 
There should be extended time for the payment of provisional taxation. There should also be extended time for applications of variation of the prospective provisional tax. 
There should be a review of the decision that local authorities find 25 per cent of the cost of road restoration made necessary by the floods. 
That with a view to restoring cattle herds a programme be immediately undertaken to make artificial insemination available to beef producers. 
That some formula of equalisation be adopted to allow the import of materials in short supply, required for rebuilding, so that imported materials would be available at comparable prices. ' 
That sections 75 and 76 of the Taxation Act, which were repealed, be restored. 
That non-Government institutional buildings (hospitals, nursing homes and schools) be considered for relief assistance for restoration. 
Where farmers had lost, due to flood, their immediate crop and had no income, they should be treated as unemployed for the purposes of social services and receive unemployment benefit, if applied for. 
Those were the general propositions that emerged from that meeting and which were subsequently conveyed to the Prime Minister, and to the Premier of Queensland in the letter of 27 March. I think that the Premier has acknowledged that letter and today I received an acknowledgment from the Prime Minister in these terms: 
Your letter of 27 March 1974 and the attachments concerning additional relief and restoration measures to assist those affected by the Queensland and New South Wales floods has been received. 
A reply will bc sent to you as soon as possible. 
I merely mention that to indicate - 
I am not doing it for propaganda. I am mentioning it to indicate that there has been a response by Queensland members and that the incidence of flood and a disaster of this nature is of immense consequence. Subsequently, when the floods struck northern New South Wales, we invited New South Wales members from the affected areas to come and join in this common approach to the Commonwealth Government and to State governments of New South Wales and Queensland. Letters were therefore sent to  Sir Robert  Askin and to  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and, as I have said, to the Prime Minister. We would hope,  Mr President,  that these particularised requests should receive attention. While we acknowledge the amount which has now been given and it being given in this grant- 
-That is right. I have not analysed whether the particular matters that we raised have been embraced in it. I hope that they have. If not, if other aspects of the matters are not embraced in this very substantial appropriation which has been made then I hope that the Prime Minister will consider the particularised requests which we made in our submissions, as will the Premier of Queensland and the Premier of New South Wales so far as matters come within the jurisdiction of either of those States. So I express for my part, because of the necessary and compelling interest which Federal members should have in a disaster of this character, our appreciation of the money that has been made available. 
I would say merely this: The Democratic Labor Party has as part of its Federal policy, and always has had, that there should be a Federal secretariat to handle the questions of natural disasters in Australia. We have seen these things come and they are always taken as if they were unexpected and sporadic. In fact, natural disasters in Australia are epidemic. There is either a natural disaster by way of flood, drought or cyclone or, perhaps, where  Senator McAuliffe  comes from on the Gold Coast, by substantial beach erosion. They always seem to take us by surprise. I do not mean that in the actual physical sense but in the financial and organisational sense. Therefore, we in the Democratic Labor Party have suggested- it has been in our policy for years- that there should be a permanent ongoing secretariat. I think that this matter has now received some attention from the present Government. If that is so, it is very good. But we were the first in the field to put that proposition forward. 
-Senator McAuliffe, this has been in the policy of the Democratic Labor Party and it has been espoused in national policy speeches for some years. It is a very reasonable and proper provision and one which I hope every government and any government would take up, because natural disasters in this country must be treated as of regular and expected occurrence. Then we can move to meet them without these ad hoc methods which now characterise all our approaches to natural disasters. Having said that, I support the Bill. I am sure that the moneys which have been provided- I do not underestimate the generosity of those moneys- will be put to the necessary purpose for which they are devised. 
I take this opportunity to say something that I intended to say earlier. I hope that some tolerance will be extended to me if my remarks appear to be those which should have been made during the second reading debate rather than at the Committee stage. I pay a tribute not merely to the Army and other Service personnel generally but also to the citizens of Brisbane and the service clubs in Brisbane, such as the Rotary, Lions and Apex clubs, and other bodies of that nature. The way in which the citizens of Brisbane rallied to the assistance of their less fortunate neighbours and friends was amazing. It was the greatest outpouring of spontaneous generosity that I think Australia has ever witnessed. I recall one incident involving a Rotary club in a suburb of Brisbane. There were 2 doctors. One was the  president  and the other was either the secretary or vice-president of the club. They organised relief and the provision of furniture and gave 3,000 inoculations against infection and disease. They did a tremendous job in organising meals for thousands of people and matters relating to furniture, health and other things. This was only symptomatic of the total relief work mobilised by the generosity of the people of Brisbane and I take this opportunity to put on record in this Parliament the appreciation of the people of Brisbane who were affected by the floods for the assistance given to them by those who were fortunate enough not to be directly affected by that tremendous disaster. 1 think the national Parliament should recognise the work carried out by these people, because in an age of materialism and of some cynicism it shows that the heart of the Australian people beats warmly and rapidly when others are unfortunately affected. It manifested itself on this occasion and I think Australia should be proud that this is still the spirit of the Australian nation. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-On behalf of  Senator McManus  and the members of the Democratic Labor Party I wish to make a few remarks. Firstly, I wish to express our appreciation to you,  Mr President,  for your kind kindness and understanding at all times and for the manner in which you have conducted the proceedings of this place. We who sit in this corner are in rather a unique position. We watch the ebb and flow of Government and Opposition. Now the whistle has gone, it is half-time and the parties will probably change ends. We still stand here in the centre to watch the play as it goes in front of us. 
This has been a unique Parliament. It has been of very short duration and we have witnessed the advent to government of a party which sat in Opposition for many years. We have witnessed in this period a continuation, under some difficulties, of the committee system which was embarked on with such success and which has played a conspicuous role in the functioning of the Senate. It has given it a new significance in the nation. In that regard I wish to pay particular tribute to 3 retiring Labor senators who have served very conspicuously on committees-  Senator Wilkinson, Senator Cant  and  Senator Poke,  who may be leaving us.  Senator Cant  particularly has been a most assiduous committee member. He has been a most competent member and a magnificent organiser. As  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, after taking over from  Senator Withers,  he has been extremely assiduous in what has been a difficult task. That the report of that Committee has not been presented was because, in many ways, it was beyond his ability to do anything about it. It has not been as a result of any lack of stimulus or enthusiasm on his part. 

 Senator Wilkinson also is a member of that Committee and by his particular interest in the matter under examination has been a most valuable contributor.  Senator Poke  joined the Committee after the reconstruction of the Government. These gentlemen,  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield, who is retiring, and all others carry our very best wishes. There will be some from both sides of the House who unfortunately will not come back. It has been an honour to serve in this place and it has been an honour to be among you. I am sure that whatever may be the outcome everybody feels that it is an honour which cannot be taken from any person who has been a senator in the Parliament of Australia. 
On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party I pay a tribute and express our thanks to all the officers of the Senate and to the staff of the Parliament whose constant attention and assiduousness have made the functioning of this institution possible. Very often we forget that it is due only to the functioning of people such as these in more humble positions that it is possible for others to carry the responsibility of discharging their duties. To them I express our very warm thanks and appreciation. I look forward with confidence to the result of the election in the next few weeks. I am sure that the strength of this Party in this corner will not be reduced. 
