 I feel sure that many thousands of Australian radio listeners, those who watch the television and readers of the national Press will be very disappointed with the contents of the Speech delivered yesterday by the GovernorGeneral. There is no provision in the Speech to take care of many of the vital issues that are affecing Australia at the present time. There is no provision in the Speech to take care of the social problems of health and education, and also social welfare. 
Most Australians, I know, are aware - and the Government is also aware - that the present inflow of overseas income to Australia is not working in the best interests of this country. On page 11 of the Speech delivered by the Governor-General we see that the Government intends to introduce legislation during this session of Parliament to establish an industry development corporation. The purpose of establishing this corporation, according to the Government's proposals, is to allow greater Australian participation in the ownership of our developing nation. Annual bulletins of overseas investment prepared by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics show that over the 10 years preceding 1967-68 the inflow of private investment in companies in Australia had increased by a net $5, 926m, with the last 5 years accounting for $3, 559m of the amount and an estimated increase for 1968-69 of $18m on the previous record inflow during 1967-68. 
Direct investment from overseas, excluding undistributed income in 1968-69, amounted to $305m. The main sources of the investment were the United States of America and Canada. These two countries contributed to our investment a total of SI 82m. Statistics show that the main category of investment is mining, oil exploration, manufacturing, oil distribution and agriculture. Figures recently released by the Federal statistics bureau for the year 1966-67 show that foreign interests have an overwhelming control of a number of major Australian industries. The main areas of foreign control are: Motor vehicle manufacturing, 87.8%; non-ferrous metals, rolling and extrusion, 83.6%; and oil processing, 81.6%. Other industries with high levels of overseas control include: Industrial chemicals and acids, 78%; pharmaceutical and toilet preparations, 76.3%; and the paint industry, 69.6%. 
Many wealthy individuals and rich American corporations have been grabbing enormous areas of our territory for cattle grazing and agricultural ventures. American millionaires have taken over some large properties in Queensland, Northern Territory, New South Wales and Western Australia. Acquisition of Australian land by the Americans during the 1960s showed a considerable increase towards the latter part of that decade. The list of landholders includes those from social and business life - banker David Rockefeller; former Ambassador Claire Booth Luce; oilmen Nelson Bunker Hunt; W. R. Goddard; and entertainer Art 
Linklater. The big American corporations include W. R. Grace and Co., Chase Manhattan Bank, Kaiser Aluminium and Chemical Corporation, American Metal Climax and Dillingham Corporation. Another wealthy rancher, Robert Justus Kleberg is reported to own more of Australia than anyone else in the world. He boasts that if he has his way he will soon add another 13 million acres to the territory that he already has and there seems no doubt that he will get his way if the Government continues with its present policy. Properties owned in Australia by  Mr Kleberg  include Risdon Station, Milton Park, New Twin Hills, Elgin Downs, Tully River, Avon and Disney Stations in Queensland, Brunette Downs, Lake Nash, Georgina Downs, Barkly Downs in the Northern Territory and Retford Park, Detroit and Bugilbone in New South Wales. This Government is practically giving away vast areas of our country to American interests. This is land which our soldiers in two world wars fought and lost their lives to defend. It is the very same land that the Aboriginals fought to protect as best they could with spears and boomerangs against guns and other weapons of death used by our early settlers nearly 200 years ago. 
Unless immediate controls are implemented by the Government to safeguard Australia for Australians we will find ourselves completely under the domination of foreign countries. Over 400 American companies, including many of the biggest in that nation, are operating in Australia. 
Recently discovered mineral riches, including iron, bauxite, nickel and copper, have been a very profitable avenue for these investors. Millions of dollars in profits each year go out of Australia from the motor industry which, as I have said before, is practically owned by overseas investors. The companies concerned very rarely export their own personnel to fill administrative or executive positions in Australia, but on the other hand, Australians are usually trained to implement the policies determined by the directors outside Australia. 
The Ford Motor Company disputes last year are an example of how foreign ideas have penetrated our major industries. The plus payment bonus plan introduced by the Ford Motor Company, with its pernicious penalties and fines, was not acceptable to the trade union movement in Victoria. As expected, it led to  a  prolonged dispute. Some of the penalties included in the plan are a fine of $1 plus time lost for being 1 minute late; a fine of $7.50 which can be imposed for being absent from work for 1 day, in addition to the normal loss of a day's pay; a fine of up to $20 which can be imposed for a lunch time meeting extending a couple of minutes over the normal meal break. Stoppages of work, irrespective of whether they are justified, for periods of less than a week can mean a loss of tip to $30. 
The arrogant attitude of the managing director in provoking the dispute is indicative of the contempt that he and the Ford Motor Company have for trade unionists who are demanding an equitable return for their labour. The Ford Motor Company made a profit of $8,483,727 in Australia for 1968-69 after taxation and allowances for depreciation. No tax is paid in Australia on that profit of over $8 million, but any wage increase gained by the employees would be a direct taxation benefit to the Commonwealth Treasury. During the period of 20 years that this Government has been in office it has shown very little initiative in protecting our industries from foreign control. This has had a significant effect on our economy and has had a decided political influence, particularly in foreign affairs. The Federal Government has encouraged and condoned overseas interests in their exploitation of our resources by allowing special taxation concessions on millions of dollars made in profits every year. 
This advantage which is given to foreign investors should be rectified to permit Australian investors to compete more favourably with overseas opposition. The Committee of Economic Inquiry - the Vernon Committee - considered overseas investment in Australia and the double taxation agreements that exist between Australia, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada and New Zealand. After that consideration the Committee said in its report: 
These arrangements contrast strongly with the moves hi Canada to discriminate by way of withholding tax and depreciation allowances against companies having less than 25% Canadian equity. We do not think that the problems posed by overseas investment in Australia as yet warrant adoption of the Canadian approach. Moreover,  we cannot be sure that the imposition of a differential tax along Canadian lines would not have the effect of reducing capital inflow to an undesirable extent. There may, of course, be grounds for considering the re-negotiation of the double tax agreements from the point of view of the cost to the Commonwealth revenue resulting from the much greater flow of investment income from than to Australia. ... As already indicated, there will be for many years a continuing need for overseas investment of the kind that improves national productivity. Some degree ot reliance on capital inflow for balance of payments purposes also seems unavoidable, although we have warned in this chapter and elsewhere in 0U report against the dangers of allowing this process to go loo far. We must ask what the Australian attitude should be if the amount of investment seeking to come to Australia continues to grow as fast as it has in the past. 
That report was made in 1965. The figures J cited earlier show that the flow of overseas investment into Australia since 1965 has increased considerably. The report went on: 
A continuation of the recent level of new overseas investment of about £150 million a year would not be  suffcient  to prevent a worsening of the balance of payments position, possibly to an extent that could not be tolerated. On the other band, it would be sufficient to produce a gradual increase iu the proportion of Australian company assets owned overseas, perhaps to something like 46% by 1974-75. 
The Government should encourage local investors by following the example of such Socialist countries as Sweden, where government investment in industries has been instrumental in maintaining stability and not in benefiting foreign millionaires. The industrial expansion of West Germany, which has been described by economists as a miracle, is indicative of how government participation and investment in industry can effectively increase a country's productive achievements. If the Government stubbornly refuses to have equity in Australian industries, at least protection should be given to local investors from the racketeers invading the Stock Exchange. Stockbrokers are giving privileges to companies, and those companies are using all kinds of spurious means to defraud the public. According to figures released by the Commonwealth Bank, over Si 3m is deposited in Australian banks. No doubt many of the depositors would share in the wealth of the mineral boom, if given an opportunity. 
The Commonwealth Government should provide the necessary finance to permit industrial research, if we are to compete with the other highly industrialised countries of the world. Instead of paying out millions of dollars every year for patents of technological innovations we should be improving the skill of our own labour force. This can be done by the implementation of Labor's policy on education. If Australians are given the opportunity there is no doubt that they have the ability and intellect to compete favourably with their counterparts anywhere in the world, and the Government has an obligation not to deny them that right. We are conscious of the fact that some foreign capital is required to stimulate our economy and provide industries, but there should be strict control by the Government on the extent of the capital, with permits granted only after approval by a foreign investment committee. Other countries which have effectively controlled the import of capital investment include France, Japan and the United Kingdom. Experts should be hired from other countries to assist in the techniques necessary to manufacture products which are now being imported or produced in Australia by companies completely owned by overseas investors. Wherever possible, our skilled men should be sent to other countries to learn new techniques which can be put into use in our own industries. A comparison of research and development engineers shows that in Australia there are very few for every 10,000 people - far less than the ratio of 25 for every 10,000 in the United States of America, 22 for every 10,000 in Sweden, 12 for every 10,000 in Japan, 1 1 for every 10,000 in the United Kingdom and 7 for every 10,000 in Canada. 
American investments and interests in Australia no doubt were the motivating factor which persuaded the Australian Government to become involved in the iniquitous war in Vietnam. Our participation in the war and our alliance with America have involved Australia as a partner to a country responsible for the brutality and massacres committed at My Lai, even though very few Australians condone such heinous atrocities. I agree with  Senator Fulbright's  statement that while the Australian Government professed to see a threat in Vietnam, as did the United States, its response was grudging and minimal and designed to earn American gratitude rather than influence the prosecution of the war. The Australian Government was obviously more concerned with pleasing the United States millionaire investors than with saving the lives and future welfare of thousands of young Australians who have been conscripted to fight in a war condemned by all nations of the world. To ensure that we do not relinquish any more of our heritage and to safeguard our national independence, legislative restrictions should be imposed on the inflow of overseas investment before it is too late. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Anderson)  adjourned. 
Senate adjourned at 11.3 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Government consider extending the Zone A allowance under the Income Tax Assessment Act to areas between Tarcoola and Golden Ridge and to other remote areas in South Australia not now included in Zone A? Will the Government recognise accumulating residence in zones over a period of more than 1 year in order to avoid the loss of deductions in the case of a taxpayer serving in a zone for less than the prescribed 6 months? 
 I begin my contribution to the debate in support of the amendment so capably moved by  Senator Drury  by reminding the Senate and the people of South Australia of the unprecedented action of the Government in another place in gagging Australian Labor Party amendments which were designed to preserve Chowilla as a storage of water for our State. I believe that this matter was not properly debated in the other place because- 
I think it is more a reflection on the  Speaker  in another place and on the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden),  who gagged the debate on amendments that were put forward in accordance with the Standing Orders- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Kennelly)  - I am not sure whether the remark was meant in the way it was made. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - I point out that under standing order 4 1 8 it is not in order to use offensive words against either House or members thereof, i do not think the statement that was made was meant in the way it was taken by the honourable senators who raised the points of order. 
I will not pursue that line any further, other than to remind the Senate that the people of South Australia can interpret the Government's action in no other way than that the Government ran away from the debate. Nothing could demonstrate more clearly the validity of Labor's stand in defence of preserving a water supply vital to the growth of South Austrafia and to the national development of Australia. 
The whole history of the Chowilla project is studded with examples of double dealing and repudiation of solemn agreements and undertakings by this Government and State Liberal governments. Surely the opponents of Chowilla have not forgotten the speech of the former Minister for National Development,  Sir William  Spooner who praised its concept when he introduced the Bill concerning it in this chamber. I will refer later to a report by the River Murray Commission which was presented by  Sir William  Spooner. We have heard from  Senator Davidson,  for whom I, together with most people in South Australia, had a great regard prior to his contribution to the debate tonight. People in South Australia have not forgotten his contribution to a debate in 1961, which is reported at page 1298 of the Senate Hansard. When speaking in the first reading debate on the Appropriation Bill 1961-62  Senator Davidson  had this to say: 
I now turn my attention,  Sir, to  a matter which, in my view, is of distinct and splendid national importance and is also of great significance to South Australia, the State from which I come. I refer to the Chowilla water storage project which has received wide publicity, which is of great national importance and which will make a valuable contribution to our development in many ways. The Prime Minister  (Mr Menzies)  proposes to convene a conference of representatives of the States of Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia to consider the proposal that has been submitted for the establishment of a water storage at Chowilla in South 'Australia just across the border of Victoria and New South Wales. That storage will maintain a water system which will be of great value and importance. It is a visionary enterprise. If there is one dominant characteristic that underlines -the development of the history of any country and particularly our own, it is this element of a struggle to develop, a struggle to create, a struggle to give leadership. This element of struggle in our own history has found expression and exerted its Influence in many ways throughout the years. We find it at the beginning in our communications and transport system. We find it in our industrial development from time to time and, because of our situation, we find it in our relations with  other nations. But the basic struggle of all of these and of our life generally is associated with the life blood of any country, and particularly of ours. I am referring, of course, to water. 

 Senator Davidson continued throughout the whole of his speech to laud the possibility of the construction of a reservoir at Chowilla. Why has  Senator Davidson's  attitude now changed so considerably? 
That was in 1962 and now it is 1970, so the period that has elapsed is only 8 years, and the reports that we have been given since then have not changed the position regarding the effectiveness of a reservoir at Chowilla. A lot has been said in this chamber and in another place about possible salinity of Chowilla, lt was said that because of the vastness of the area of Chowilla, there would be greater evaporation and, consequently, there would be more salinity in the water of the Chowilla reservoir. This was stated by many of those people who now are supporting the Dartmouth project and are trying to repudiate the Chowilla proposal. 
The South Australian representative on the River Murray Commission is the Director and Engineer in Chief of the Engineering and Water Supply Department in South Australia,  Mr H.  L. Beaney. In an article in the South Australian Advertiser', in which a photograph of  Mr Hall  is very prominent, this is what  Mr Beaney  said in reply to a question which he was asked about salinity in the river, ils effect of the new storages and how he saw the situation: 
In normal conditions neither Chowilla nor Dartmouth would have any great effect on salinity. The sometimes expressed criticism that Chowilla with its relatively large evaporation loss would concentrate salt is mitigated by its ability to store low salinity spring flows. 
That is unquestionably a statement by a man, whom  Mr Hall  pretends to know, that salinity in Chowilla would be no greater than salinity in Dartmouth. The River Murray Commission recommended the construction of a reservoir at Chowilla as a suitable site to provide greater overall benefits as an alternative storage above the Hume Reservoir. On the recommendation of the Commission, in 1963 the Premiers of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia and the Prime Minister signed an agreement, which was ratified by the 4 Parliaments, for the construction of a reservoir at Chowilla. 
When the agreement was signed by the Premiers and the Prime Minister, the estimated cost of the reservoir was$72m. 
-It is in the agreement, andI will come to that later on. 
I will. In the Senate in 1961, the late  Senator Spooner,  presented a report from the River Murray Commission. 
He was then Minister for National Development. Under the heading 'Additional Storage above Hume Reservoir as an alternative to Chowilla' the report stated: 
The Committee gave consideration to the possibility of constructing an additional storage or storages above Hume Reservoir as an alternative to the construction of Chowilla. This investigation showed conclusively that Chowilla as a River Murray Commission storage would provide much greater overall benefits for equal expenditure than the construction of storages above Hume Reservoir. 
This Bill seeks to ratify the Agreement of 1963, to which I have referred, which has been passed by the 3 State governments, and which is, in effect, a legal document, but the Government's intention here tonight is to repudiate it. It is no wonder that South Australian people are incensed and perturbed at the action of honourable senators from that State who they expect at least to support South Australia in matters which are so vital to South Australia. 
I refer now to the existing River Murray Waters Agreement, to which I have referred previously, which has been ratified by the governments concerned. Under the heading Works to be Constructed', clause 20(iia) states:  the provision of a storage(in this Agreement referred to as 'the Chowilla Reservoir') on the River Murray between Renmark and Wentworth with a capacity of approximately four and threequarter million acre feet  of  water and with a roadway along the top of the containing dam (in this Agreement referred  to  asthe Chowilla Dam') and with provision for vessels drawing four feet six inches  of  water to pass; 
Further on in the Agreement clause 24 provides: 
The construction as provided  by  clause twentyone of this Agreement both  of  the storage works and of the weirs or weirs and locks mentioned in clause twenty hereof shall be commenced by the Governments of the several States as soon as may be after this Agreement comes into effect and shall be continued without cessation (other than may be due to unavoidable causes) until all of the said storage works and weirs or weirs and locks are completed. 
If this project had continued without pressure being brought to bear by the Liberal governments of the other States, Chowilla dam now would be complete and it would be taking in water. But owing to the political gymnastics and political propaganda of other Liberal governments, the construction of the Chowilla dam has been deferred while a dam is to be constructed at a site which we believe is not better than Chowilla. We believe that the Dartmouth Dam should be built, but only simultaneously with the Chowilla project. 
There has been a great deal  said  by the various speakers who support the  Dartmouth  project that in the Bill we  are  considering tonight there is no provision  which  states that the proposal to build Chowilia will be repudiated or vetoed. 1  shall read  from clause 13 of the Eighth Schedule to the Bill, which provides that clause 24 of the Agreement is amended: 
by adding  at  the end  of the  clause the words 
However, completion of  the  construction of the Chowilla Reservoir shall  be  deferred until the Contracting Governments agree that the work shall proceed . . . 
Surely no-one here or anywhere in Australia would believe that, Dartmouth having been built,  Sir Henry  Bolte would agree to spend millions of dollars of Victorian money to build a dam in South Australia. Of course he would not.  Sir Henry  Bolte is concerned only at getting a reservoir in Victoria. We are concerned that Victoria and New South Wales also should have ample water. We believe that further studies should be made to evaluate whether the cost of building 2 dams at the same time - considering the water available from the 2 dams - would be more economic than building a dam at Dartmouth now and later on learning that a dam has to be built at Chowilla. 1 believe that such a study should be undertaken. I believe that, if such a study were undertaken, the results certainly would come out in favour of the 2-dam project. 
Only recently a very eminent professor, Professor Oliphant, is reported to have stated that even if Dartmouth and Chowilla are built South Australia will be short of water by the year 2000. Why are we arguing whether 2 dams should be built now? We have to look ahead. It is no good deciding only what should happen in the next few years because what will happen in the next few years is what has happened in the 1-ast 10 years. South Australia will still not have an ample supply of water. This Bill seeks to rescind the Agreement ratified by the governments in 1963. Since then very little progress has been made on the construction of any dam in South Australia, Victoria or New South Wales. South Australia needs River Murray water for 95% of its total supply for irrigation, industries, and for domestic consumption in city and country areas. South Australia needs quality water and a sufficient quantity of it to ensure that the hundreds of River Murray irrigation properties have a regular supply in times of drought. I am very concerned for the hundreds of fruit growers along the River Murray - from close to the border in Renmark, through Barmera, Berri, Waikerand the many towns in between. 
After the First World War many returned soldiers took up blocks in that area. They took up blocks and have worked on those blocks since then - some of them for over 50 years. Since then. Loxton was developed after the Second World War. Hundreds of returned soldiers settled on blocks in the Loxton irrigation area. A regular and permanent supply of quality water is vital to the growers in those districts. Anybody who knows anything about fruit growing - especially vine fruits, citrus fruits or stone fruits - would know that it is essential to have good water. In the past we have seen that any sign of salinity in the water has killed vines and  trees overnight. Not only do the vines and trees die but the soil is useless for years to come. Nothing will grow in the area. It has been said that South Australia has had only one drought in so many years. South Australia had a severe drought in 1968. What would have happened if South Australia had had a similar drought in 1969? Who can say that South Australia will not have 3, 4 or even 5 consecutive years of drought? Nobody can forecast the weather. Every year we see drought records, frost records and rain records broken. Records will be broken indefinitely. No-one can say that, because the behaviour of the River Murray has been of a certain pattern in the last 50 or 60 years, it will remain of the same pattern for the next 50 years. That is an important reason why we should conserve all possible water available in the river. 
We know that every year millions of acre feet of water in the River Murray goes to waste when it flows out to sea. This water will still go to waste if a reservoir is built at Dartmouth and if there is no conservation of water further downstream. In my opinion, it is important that both reservoirs be built simultaneously so that all possible water can be conserved - not only the water upstream from the Hume Reservoir but also the water downstream from the Hume Reservoir. What will happen to the overflow water from the Menindee Lakes scheme, which is filled now? Every year that it is filled a potential supply of water will flow down the Darling and into the Murray. At present this water goes to waste when it flows out to sea. Surely the logical thing is to conserve that water in a reservoir downstream and close to the border of South Australia. 
In my belief, the reason why Chowilla was postponed was not that the cost of the reservoir had increased to any extent and not that any proof had been given of better storage further upstream. When the Agreement was signed, it was well known that the estimated cost of the Chowilla reservoir was S72m. No evidence is available that the reservoir at Chowilla would cost any more than that amount. The then South Australian Labor Government had to agree to studies which would provide the evidence on which to go ahead with Chowilla. It is upon these studies that both the Labor Party and the present Liberal-Country League Government in South Australia rely for their respective arguments. In March 1968, when both the Labor Government and the LCL Opposition agreed that Chowilla should be built, instructions were given to the South Australian Commission Jo vote against the deferment of Chowilla so as to create a dispute which would allow the matter to be placed before arbitration. The LCL Party, after taking office in 1968, revoked that instruction thereby ensuring that South Australia's rights to arbitration would be forfeited forever. 
Some of the benefits of Chowilla, in comparison with Dartmouth, are these: The capacity of ihe Chowilla reservoir is over 5 million acre feet, which is slightly less than the combined storage of the Dartmouth Reservoir with a 3 million acre feet capacity and the Hume Reservoir with a 2 million acre feet capacity. Chowilla Reservoir also would receive the intakes of the tributaries that flow into the Murray downstream from the Hume Reservoir. That water now flows down the Murray and goes to waste out to sea. According to reports, the estimated flow from the Mitta Mitta River into Dartmouth is only 560.000 acre feet per year. It would take approximately 6 years to fill Dartmouth. In comparison, the Chowilla reservoir could be filled every year. Another important matter so far as the irrigation areas of South Australia are concerned - and this applies not only to the fruit growing districts but to a lot of other River Murray settlements, which carry on dairying and other rural activities, down nearly to the lakes at Meningie - is that in times of drought the distance between the Dartmouth Reservoir and the South Australian border, where the water would be required first, is about 1,100 miles. lt would take approximately 6 weeks for the water from the Dartmouth reservoir to reach the areas in South Australia where it is vitally needed during water restrictions. 
Yes. In fact it would take up to 10 weeks before some of this water reached the lower irrigation settlements near Meningie in the Lake Alexandrina area.  Mr Steele  Hall, the Premier of South Australia, is reported in Ihe Adelaide 'Advertiser' of 13th April to have made an interesting statement. In discussing support for the construction of the 2 dams simultaneously he is reported to have said: 
If we spent $60ni on Chowilla before its time we would be wasting $3 .5m a year in interest charges. This, in 2 years would waste more than the capital cost of any works that may subsequently be flooded at Lake Victoria. 
The South Australian Premier in that statement is admitting that it is possible that the expenditure of $7m intended to be made on inlet and outlet works at Lake Victoria will be wasted if ever a reservoir is built at Chowilla. It was originally estimated that it would cost S28m to build a dam at Chowilla. In 7 years the estimate was increased by nearly $40m. The longer that construction of a dam at Chowilla is delayed, the higher the cost will be eventually. 
Yes. If construction costs continue to increase at the same rate over the next 7 years as they did in the 7 years before work ceased at Chowilla, there will be an added cost of over $6m for every year that construction of a dam at Chowilla is deferred. Therefore the reference by the South Australian Premier to wastage of $3. 5m a year in interest charges is not realistic. The true position is [hat interest charges of S3. 5m a year would represent annually S2.5m less than the estimated spiralling increase in costs of construction at Chowilla. lt is doubtful that when the South Australian legislation comes before the South Australian Parliament on 28th April it will be passed. Before the Bill we arc debating is ratified a computer analysis should bc carried out to determine the advantages of building simultaneously dams at Dartmouth and Chowilla. There is no doubt that the cost of building the 2 dams together would be greater than the present estimate of $57m as the construction cost of a dam at Dartmouth, plus $7m to be spent at Lake Victoria and the expenditure of S6m already made on works at Chowilla, making a total of $70m. But that was the estimated cost when the Chowilla agreement was signed in 1963, so there is nothing to be gained financially by building a dam at Dartmouth in preference to building a dam in South Australia. After computer studies are carried out - and we believe that the Stales would favour the 2-dam programme - there is no reason why the Commonwealth Government should not provide any extra money required. Such expenditure would be preferable to the expenditure of about $3 00m which may be wasted for the purchase of Fill aircraft. Millions of dollars are spent every year on destruction in Vietnam. About $800m has been spent on the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric scheme, which has been of great benefit to the States concerned. 
Yes, but received no benefits for it. New South Wales and Victoria from that scheme both receive extra water supplies and very cheap electricity. About $60m was spent to build a railway line from Townsville to Mount Isa, the money to be repaid to the Government on a long term basis. The Senate has already agreed to donate S53m to the Government of Indonesia over a period of 3 years. Surely the Commonwealth Government could find any extra money needed to build dams at Dartmouth and Chowilla. They are vital if South Australia is to continue to progress as it has in the past. 
The people of South Australia regard the decision not to proceed with a dam at Chowilla as a betrayal of our legal and moral rights and a serious threat to the future of South Australia. The proposed expenditure of $7m on inlet and outlet works at Lake Victoria is a clear indication that this legislation is designed to spell the doom of Chowilla because, if a dam is constructed at Chowilla, the works at Lake Victoria will be inundated and the expenditure of $7m there will be wasted. 
My quest ion is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Will the Minister classify as approved special hospitals nursing homes which provide specialised services for particular patients with chronic long term illnesses? That would enable patients to be placed on a similar basis to those in approved special hospitals for the purposes of the National Health Act, for the purpose of receiving fund benefits from a registered medical benefits fund and, if necessary, for the purpose of placing them in special accounts on a similar basis to that which applies to patients in other approved hospitals. Also, will the Minister consider legislation to cover day treatment hospitals and clinic centres which provide specialised treatment services for particular chronic long term illnesses, in order to classify them as approved special day hospitals? The object of this is to allow patients receiving treatment in such approved special day hospitals to be placed on an appropriate basis under the National Health Act in order to receive fund benefits from registered medical benefit funds and. if necessary, to be placed under special account or similar provisions for day treatment services provided at such hospitals. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is it a fact, as reported by the Minister for Customs and Excise in Adelaide last week, that, resulting from detection pressures in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, international drug smugglers have begun using South Australia as a new inlet for narcotics? What special action is being taken in South Australia to stop this dangerous development? 
 I enter this debate after having listened very intently to the contributions of honourable senators on the Government side. I noticed that not one of them referred at any stage to any aspect of the Bill. 
I am well aware that under the Standing Orders honourable senators can discuss, in these circumstances, any issue other than the subject of the Bill. It was noticeable that no honourable senator availed himself of the opportunity to advise the chamber on anything that is in the Bill. There were the usual Communist smear tactics which Government senators adopt in an attempt to resurrect or hold a postmortem on the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign which, to their dissatisfaction, was a resounding success. It has been estimated by the Press that in the States where the demonstrations were held against our involvement in the war in Vietnam over 100,000 Australian people participated. 
Babies cannot lake part in demonstrations. They are like  Senator Young.  The fact is that over 100,000 people in Australia took part in the demonstrations against our involvement in the war in Vietnam. In addition, the demonstrations were covered by television and the 12 million people who  Senator Young  said did not take part at least saw on television a great mass of people demonstrating in an orderly way against our continued involvement in Vietnam. The people of Australia also demonstrated their opposition by their vote in October last year. 
This debate relating to the Moratorium was initiated, quite rightly, by  Senator Cavanagh  who directed the attention of the Senate to something that he had overheard soldiers say in one of the hotels in Adelaide. I think it is to his credit that he did so. He asked one of the soldiers whether in Vietnam Australian soldiers were participating in massacres similar to that at My Lai. The soldier answered that they were but he would not state the place or the time or give any other information relating to it.  Senator Cavanagh  has asked that an inquiry be conducted into what was said. Surely every honourable senator oh the Government side would agree that an inquiry should be held. Australian soldiers who are conscripts are being forced to fight in Vietnam. After all, they are fighting in a war which has not been declared and in which we have not been invited to participate. Despite the fact that many honourable senators on this side of the chamber have asked repeatedly, even during the short time that I have been here, for conclusive evidence that there was a request for Australian intervention in Vietnam, to this stage not one honourable senator on the Government side has produced any evidence whatsoever to that effect. 
1 have never seen tabled any documentary evidence that Australia was ever invited to participate in the war in Vietnam. We know, of course, that we are there at the request of the United States. That brings me to the point which  Senator Cavanagh  was criticised for raising. The statement he made is factual. 1 will refer to it because he repeated it. The facts will show that what he said is correct, namely, that more people in the world have greater respect for the Vietcong flag than they have for the American flag. That is factual, whether we (ike it or not, because the people of the Communist countries represent one-third of the world's population of 3,500 million and they prefer the Vietcong flag to the American flag. Let me tell the Senate what a very eminent historian by the name of Arnold Toynbee said in reply to questions asked by a journalist of the New  York  'Times'. This is what he had to say: 
To most Europeans. I guess, America now looks like the most  dangerous  country in the world. Since America is unquestionably the most powerful country, the transformation of America's image within the past 30 years is very frightening for Europeans. 
It is probably still more frightening for the great majority of the human race who are neither Europeans nor North Americans, but are Latin Americans, Asians and Africans. They, I imagine, feel even more insecure than we feel. 
They feel that, at any moment, America may intervene in their internal affairs with the same appalling consequences as have followed from American intervention in South East Asia. 
For the world as a whole, the CIA has now become the bogy that Communism has been for America. Wherever there is trouble, violence, suffering, tragedy, the rest of us are now quick to suspect the CIA has a hand in it. 
Our phobia about the CIA is, no doubt, as fantastically excessive as America's phobia about world Communism but, in this case, too, there is just enough convincing evidence to make the phobia genuine. 
In fact, the roles of America and Russia have been reversed in the world's eyes. Today America has become the world's nightmare. 
Like Communist Russia, America has committed atrocities in the cause of truth and justice, as she sees  them.  We believe that American fanaticism, too, is sincere. This makes it all the more alarming. 
In terms of the number of lives taken and of lands laid  waste,  America's score is, unhappily, far higher than any other country's since the end of World War II. 
In the newspaper article he then answered a question which would be an interesting one to ask  Senator Greenwood  and some of the other Government senators. The question was: 
Would I rather be  a  Vietnamese who was being saved' by the American army, or be  a  Czech who was being 'saved' by the Russian army? 
His answer to that question was: 
Of course I would rather be the Czech. The number of lives taken and the amount of devastation caused by the 1968 Russian military intervention in Czechoslovakia were small, measured by the standards of America's record in Vietnam. 
There we have a very eminent historian showing that not only the people of Asia, Europe and America are concerned about America's intervention in the affairs of other countries. That justifies what  Senator Cavanagh  said, namely, that the bigger percentage of the people of the world today would rather see the Vietcong flag flown than see the United States flag flown. 
Yes, they have a higher respect for it. So  Senator Cavanagh  was quite right. Of course, it hurts Government senators to hear this because they have been supporting the United States, which is undeniably the most violent country in the world. 
Yes, More murders are committed in America than in any other country. There are more pack rapes in America than in any other country. The degree of drug addition in America is higher than in any other country, and it is becoming worse. Unemployment in America is more per capita than in any other country. America also has a higher percentage of millionaires than any other country. As a matter of fact, it has more millionaires than all the rest of the world put together. 
Let me return to the demonstration and the Government allegation that the purpose of the demonstration was to create violence and to take over the streets of Melbourne and other places. I wish to refer the Senate to other demonstrations that have taken place throughout Australia for many years. What about the Labor Day demonstration in which the trade union movement in Australia demonstrates the winning of an 8- hour day. That has been going on since 1855. But we hear no objection to that, and there should not be any objection to it. People are demonstrating a cause in which they proudly believe. We also have the Anzac Day demonstration in which on 25th April every year many soldiers demonstrate and remember the gallantry of Australian soldiers at Gallipoli in the First World War. 

 Senator DONALD CAMERONAccording to the Oxford dictionary, a demonstration is a manifestation of public opinion. There is no doubt that it is public opinion when people are prepared to participate in any demonstration of that nature. I refer also to another demonstration which has not been referred to whileI have been in this chamber and which takes place every year 3 or 4 weeks prior to Christmas. This demonstration is conducted by John Martin's. We have heard much talk ofthe alleged audacity and effrontery of  Dr Cairns  in expressing the hope that the demonstrators would take over the streets in Melbourne and other cities. Have not they a perfect right to take over the streets? Are the streets owned by the big capitalist monopolies which have 10-storey and 15- storey buildings along the streets? Of course they are not. The people have a right to take over the streets. I noticed that during the demonstration in Adelaide last Friday the traffic continued through all the streets throughout the time the demonstration was on and also that pedestrians continued to go about their normal business as on any other day. But in the John Martin's demonstration they cannot do that. 
The John Martin's demonstration is- 
It is a demonstration.  Senator Young  has not read the dictionary definition. The definition of the word 'demonstration' in the Oxford dictionary says that it can be a procession. In this instance the demonstration is in the form of a procession. What happens in this demonstration that we see every year? What happens is that the whole of the commercial activity of Adelaide is brought to a standstill because every street leading to the centre of the city is barricaded off. People cannot even drive into the city. They cannot even walk along King William Street, which is the main street of Adelaide, while this demonstration goes through the city. Surely if a big department store, such as John Martin's, is allowed to do this for the purpose of selling toys to parents when Christmas is not far off- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! 
The point I am making is that Government senators do not object when that demonstration has an effect on commercial activity. In fact, it has a greater effect than did the demonstration that took place last Friday. 
The purpose of the Moratorium demonstration has been dealt with adequately by many honourable senators on this side of the chamber. We know that the fact that it was a success is disappointing to honourable senators opposite. I maintain that even if the Moratorium brings the war in Vietnam to a halt only1 day earlier it will have achieved its purpose, or if it saves the life of1 Australian soldier or 1 innocent citizen of Vietnam it will also have achieved its purpose. There is no doubt that it is having its effect not only on the Government in Australia but also on the Government in the United States. There have been reports that the United States Senate is considering discontinuing the finance necessary for the United States to participate in the war in Vietnam. 
Over 1 million people have been killed in Vietnam since the intervention there of the United States. We were told in the early stages by the United States general in charge of Allied forces in South Vietnam that if the United States increased its military commitment by another 50,000 troops the war would be over very quickly. Another 50,000 United States troops were committed. The story then was that another 50,000 troops were necessary. Then it was said that another 10,000 troops were necessary to bring the war to an end very quickly. The United States increased the number of its troops in South Vietnam to about 500,000 but the war continues without any end in sight. But worse than that, the American people were then told that the war in Vietnam could be brought to a standstill very quickly by bombing North Vietnam. So United States planes bombed North Vietnam. The Australian Government supported that bombing, and probably still does support the bombing of North 
Vietnam. What happened then? The war continued just the same, with no end to hostilities in sight. 
It is now obvious that the escalation of the conflict by the invasion of Cambodia by United States troops, supported by South Vietnamese forces, will not bring the confrontation to a close any more quickly. It simply means that the war will last longer than it would have lasted had the invasion not taken place. Honourable senators opposite have claimed that if United States and Australian troops leave Vietnam there will be a bloodbath. In that connection I refer to an article, written by Tran Van Dinh, that appeared in the 'Austraiian' of 19th December last year. Tran Van Dinh'. last post in the South Vietnamese diplomatic service was that of charge d'affaires in Washington in 1963. In 1960 he was a member of the South Vietnamese Cabinet, holding the portfolio of Director-General of Information, and was also a member of the National Security Council. He now lives in the United States. The article is headed: Will there be a bloodbath when the Allies go home?' In reply to that question Tran Van Dinh wrote: 
The possibility  of a  'bloodbath' in South Vietnam if US troops were to swiftly withdraw has been worrying both 'hawks' and 'doves'. But the Vietnamese likely to be the most affected by a change of regime in Saigon, or by a Communist takeover - the wealthy and powerful - do not talk much about it. They have been getting ready ever since the Tet offensive of 1968, which brought the war into their cities and their air-conditioned living rooms. 
A quiet exodus began, mostly to France. The price of exodus is not cheap. An exit visa costs as much as $5,000, a 'certificate of French citizenship' costs about $2,000, illegal border crossing into Cambodia costs anywhere from $800 to $4,000. 
Money has been deposited in European banks. According to Allessandro Cassells of Dic We itwoche of Zurich, a total of between SI, 5 00m and $2,000m has left Vietnam in this way. According  to  the same journalist.  President  Nguyen Van Thieu has found a home for his children in Rome (where his brother is ambassador) and his wife  has  just bought a house in Europe. He estimates that of 1,600 Vietnamese who are legally leaving South Vietnam each month, half do not return, which means that about 10,000 have emigrated since the negotiations began in Paris. My own estimates are a bit higher. Those who cannot afford or do not wish to leave have gone through a well planned process of accommodation with  the  'other side', an accommodation that reaches  the  highest echelons of the Government. 
Huynh Van Trong, special assistant to  President  Thieu, was arrested in July this year with 42 others on charges of having contact with the Vietcong. (This month Trong and the other defendants were sentenced to life imprisonment with hard labour.) On the provincial level, as Henry Kissinger noted in Foreign Affairs (January 1969): 'Tacit accommodations are not unusual in many areas such as the Mekong Delta.' One wonders who will be left among the prospective victims. 
The here and now bloodbath is real, however. For the majority of Vietnamese, poor peasants in the defoliated countryside and destitute workers in the city slums, it is what they have been witnessing for a long time: the search and destroy missions; the 'free zone' strikes; the BS2 saturation bombings; the Phoenix operation which from December 1967 to December 1968 killed 18,393 civilian Vietcong cadres; the Song My ('Pinkville') type of breakfast massacre in which an American infantry unit allegedly shot down some hundreds of men, women and children in  a  captured village in the early morning of 16th March 1968; the atrocities regularly described in national United States magazines. To talk about a future massacre against this present background is ironic, to say the least. Nonetheless, the question needs to be discussed, if only because it is raised by many Americans whose compassion for the Vietnamese people and whose opposition to the war I do not doubt. But in doing so we must examine two underlying myths: the first is that the Orientals put little value on life and take killing very lightly"; the second is that reprisals are the monopoly of the Communists, whereas antiCommunists are less vengeful. The first is easily dispelled by  a  reading of Western history; the religious wars, the Inquisition, the lynchings, the world wars, the American Indian and Civil wars, Hitler's 'final settlement'. 
Anyone who has spent time in Vietnam realises that the peasant esteems life very highly. The Oriental is no more brutal, no more casual about death than is the Occidental, irrespective of politics. Many Americans believe that the Vietnamese Catholics will bc the sure victims of future reprisals. Thus  President  Nixon in his address on 3rd November mentioned the million-and-a-half Catholic refugees who fled to South Vietnam when the Communists took over the North.' The President's statistics were inflated. According to Vietnam Past and Present, published in Saigon in 1956 under the patronage of the South Vietnam Department of Education and the National Commission for UNESCO and written by  Mr Thai  Van Kiem  a  Vietnamese diplomat and scholar, the total number of refugees was 887,895 of whom 85% or 754,710 were Catholics. Also some 100,000 Vietnamese left the South for the North in 1954, several thousands of whom were Catholic There are now about 800,000 Catholics in North Vietnam. There are Catholics in the leadership of the National Liberation Front. 
Those who predict the wholesale murder of Catholics by Communists sound more Catholic and more anti-Communist than the most antiCommunist Catholic leader in South Vietnam, Father Hoang Quynh. During the first IndoChinese war, Father Hoang Quynh led a guerilla army against the Viet Minh, and in 1954 he moved south with his faithful. Recently he said: 'If the communists come, we will try and live and adapt here.' 
That was a quotation from 'Newsweek' of 24th November 1969. The report in the Australian' continues: 
In the past 3 years, he has worked out a close relationship with Thien Tri Quang, the militant Buddhist leader whom some of the US consider pro-communist. Father Hoang Quynh knows Very well that security lies in close association with your own people, not with a foreign army. 
In  a  communique on January  8,  1969, the Conference of Bishops in Vietnam appealed to the goodwill of the government of both South and North Vietnam to build peace together: in the name of the Lord, we cry Stop.' 
In early November this year, 93 prominent Vietnamese Catholics from France, West Germany, Canada and in Vietnam called for the immediate withdrawal of US troops. 
In recent months Saigon has given wide publicity to 'mass executions and mass graves' in Hue, digging up bodies for the Press and photographers. Yet, Colonel Ton That Khien, chief  of  the Quang Ngai province ('Pinkville'), where the March 16, 1969, massacre of Vietnamese women and children took place, refused to dig up the bodies of the victims, saying that 'they are old bodies'. 
Why are the Hue bodies new and Quang Ngai old, when they were . buried at the same time? 
President Nixon said: *we saw the prelude of what would happen in South Vietnam when the communists entered the city last year. During their brief rule there, there was  a  bloody reign  of  terror in which 3,000 civilians were clubbed, shot to death and buried in mass graves. 
I was touched by the President's mention of Hue, my home town. 
This is what  Mr Tran  Van Dinh was saying. He had lived in this town and knew all about it. He Was refuting what was said by  President  Nixon. He continued: 
The 1968 Tet offensive took 2 victims in my own family: my younger brother, a non-commissioned officer in the ARVN and a published poet, and my nephew. They were both killed not by the Vietcong but by American bombings. 
So it can be seen that the majority of deaths caused during the supposed massacre, the taking of reprisals and killings following the Tet offensive in 1968 were caused not by the Vietcong National Liberation Front armies but by American bombing. 
No. The report continues: 
They were buried in a temporary grave for the reason that Hue was under seige; nobody could get out of the area to buy  a  coffin for  a  decent burial. 
The first news I received from an official Saigon source was that my relatives were killed by the Vietcong. Only much' later, when I got word from my own family, did I learn that they had been killed by the bombings. 
What happened in Hue is told in an account that appeared in the Christian Century of November 5, 1969. 
He then refers to the author. The report continues: 
He wrote: "When on the first day of the attack, about 20 Vietcong entered Gia Hoi (a precinct of 25,000 residents in Hue) in order to secure the area, they carried with them a list of those who were to be killed immediately as "enemies of the people." 
The article continues in the same vein right throughout. There are another 3 columns in the article which I shall not be able to read, but one paragraph says: 
I do not sit in the inner councils of the inner left. 1 do not know the number of Vietnamese who may be victimised once US forces are withdrawn. But I am not persuaded that a bloodbath would take place if there were no US troops in Vietnam, or if the Vietcong took over. 
That is the expert advice of a person who was previously a resident of South Vietnam. It is advice which I would be more inclined to accept as being accurate than statements from honourable senators opposite who have never been to Vietnam. 
In concluding I would say that the Moratorium held throughout Australia last week was successful in achieving the objectives which the sponsors sought to achieve. It was a tremendous success and there is no doubt that it will have an effect on the Government and on future elections in Australia. People in Australia are beginning to realise that they have been fooled for too long into believing that Australia's participation in the war in Vietnam would stop or prevent a Communist invasion of Australia. Early in the war the Government tried to influence the people of Australia to believe that if we did not stop the Communists over there they would come over here. But even the Government does not now expound that theory. It says that we have to get out of Vietnam, that we must have an honourable settlement of the dispute. It does not care for how long the fighting goes on or how many civilians are massacred, nor does it care to what extent their land is devastated, how many of their women are turned into prostitutes and how many of the children have been turned into beggars. This does not worry the governments of Australia or America. 
The United States has had a very violent record over the years. The massacres at My Lai were only part of the pattern of massacres in which the United States has been involved for many years. There was the massacre of thousands of red indians by the United States and the massacre of thousands of negroes by the United States. That is still going on. We are trying to pretend that we are in Vietnam at the request of the United States, but our only purpose in being there is to save face with America. At the time when the United States intervened in Vietnam it was the only country which invaded Vietnam. It had to have some friends. It did not care where it got them. It knew that the Government of Australia did not care very much about the young men of this country, that it was more concerned about private enterprise and the profits of the big combines than about our youth, so it asked the Australian Government if it would put forces into Vietnam. Our Government agreed and our troops have been there since. 
We are supporting a country which is recognised as being and whose history shows that it is the most violent country in the world. Massacres are not uncommon in the United States. There have been massacres there ever since the Americans took over the country from the defenceless people centuries ago. They are still doing it. They have built up their country by importing slaves from South Africa, and now that the slaves have served their purpose they are no longer wanted. They would like to exterminate them, and they are doing a reasonably good pb at this - especially the national guardsmen who are fairly accurate with their shots. When they fire apparently they do not miss. I believe that our participation in Vietnam should draw to an end. The objectives of the Moratorium were commendable. Surely it has proved to the people of Australia that all foreign forces in Vietnam should be withdrawn and also that the conscription of Australian troops should cease. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise refers to  a  statement regarding international drug trafficking in South Australia. I asked a question on this matter on Sth May and received on 13th May a reply which was in general terms and not specific to the question. I now ask the Minister: In view of the evidence obtained by the Department of Customs and Excise that drug trafficking activities are being diversified to other ports in Australia, has it been necessary to appoint more temporary or permanent officers in South Australia to stamp out the illicit drug traffic in that State? Are these officers located at new centres in South Australia? If so, at which ports or locations are they stationed? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to a Press statement under the heading 'Must Find Cause of Low Wool Prices' and dated 25th March 1970. Has the Minister received a report from the Australian Wool Board's advisory committee on the cause of low wool prices? If so, when will copies of the report, which was promised before the end of May, be made available to members of the Senate? 
J ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service whether he has read in today's national newspaper that the Full Bench  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and 
Arbitration Commission yesterday rejected a claim that station hands should work a 40-hour week instead of a 44-hour week, ls the Minister aware that station hands covered by the Federal pastoral industry award are required to work a 44- hour week spread over  5i  days and that overtime is forfeited by the employee if not claimed within 4 weeks? Does the Minister support the judgment of the Commission in rejecting the claim because there was no evidence of serious unrest amongst station hands? Will the Minister give an assurance that the penal powers of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act will not be applied against the Australian Workers Union and the station hands if action is taken to create the necessary serious unrest in the industry apparently vital to convince the Commission that the standard hours set by the court 22 years ago should not be denied to workers in the pastoral industry? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Minister give an assurance that Commonwealth Superannuation Fund payments which have not been adjusted since 1967 will be reviewed in the 1970-71 Budget? 
It is not in the nature of things for me to give assurances in the name of the Treasurer. I therefore would ask that the question be put on notice. 1 will certainly get an answer to the honourable senator as expeditiously as possible after we lift. 
I do not intend to canvass any of the areas with which honourable senators on this side have dealt, lt is obvious to me that all this Bill does is delete sub-section (l.)(a) from section 109 and transfer it to section 119 with which we will be dealing later. If this clause were carried it would leave very little in section 109. As a matter of fact, it would leave nothing in it that is not covered elsewhere in the Act, other than possibly section 5 which deals with cases where an employee has been victimised because he joins a union or where an employee refuses to work with an employer because he is a member of some employer organisation. So that offence is adequately covered by the penalties that it provides; that is, a penalty of $100 under section 5 (Ia.) and $50 under section 5 (2.). If the Bill is carried the only other part of section 1 09 that will be left relates to section 144 which deals with the rights of a person employed in an industry to remain or become a member of the union. 
Surely we will not leave in the Act section 109 merely to allow a penalty of up to $1,000 a day or $500 a day, if the dispute goes for more than 1 day, to be imposed on a union that said a certain employee was not entitled to become a member. So with those sections being deleted from the Act, it is obvious to me that the Government is adopting a very obstinate attitude by trying to maintain that at least it had its own way and would not delete from the Act what had been suggested by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the other unions. If I am not right I would like the Minister in reply to advise the Senate of any other way that section 109 can be applied, other than to the sections to which I have referred. 
It is a very interesting observation that I have made. No doubt the serious unrest in industry has been caused by the way the employers have sought the sanctuary of the court in any trivial dispute. In 1968 the court applied the penalties under section 111 on at least 165 occasions against the unions for alleged failure to observe an order of the court made under section 109(1.) (a). On each occasion the court imposed very severe penalties and ordered the unions to pay the costs of both sides. Of nearly 500 cases which have been dealt with under this section of the Act since 1957 there has been only one where the court did not order costs against the union. That was a trivial case where the fine imposed was only $10 and in which no costs were awarded. Although in 1968 the unions were fined on at least 165 times, the employer organisations were before the court on only 5 occasions for breaches of the Act. 
According to this they do breach the Act, but the court is very lenient in dealing with employers. As  Senator Bishop  pointed out, the fines imposed are usually SIO with S2 costs, sometimes with no costs at all, and sometimes the case is dismissed. Out of 5 such cases heard in 1968, in 3 penalties were imposed and on the other 2 occasions the case was withdrawn. 
We do not accept that this Bill is a result of negotiations between the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the employer organisations and the Government, because the provisions of the Bill are not acceptable to the trade union movement and never will be.  Senator Greenwood  mentioned earlier tonight that the action adopted by the unions in taking direct action is not the proper approach for getting industrial wage justice. Let me give 2 examples out of the hundreds that there are where trade union organisations would not have received justice without taking industrial action. In South Australia in the State Industrial Court the Australian Workers Union on 3 occasions made an application to the court for an extra week's leave for the continuous shift workers in the cement manufacturing industry. The provision of an extra week's leave applies in practically every award in the Commonwealth. On each occasion the  President  of the Industrial Court rejected the application by the Australian Workers Union. The employees in that industry asked me how they were going to get an extra week's leave, the same as everybody else in Australia. I said: 'The only way you will get it is to go on strike. You will not get it any other way'. They went on strike. The matter came before the Commission and the same judge who had rejected applications by the Australian Workers Union for the extra week's leave on 2 previous occasions, and who had been the employer's advocate before another judge when the application was rejected, granted the extra week's leave. That happened only after the employees had taken strike action. 
A case was reported in the 'Australian' today - we will read more about it when we get the transcript - where the Australian Workers Union made an application to the court, which was not the first application, to vary an award so that station hands would come into line with all workers in industry and have a 40-hour week. It may be thought that station hands are very well paid and that the court took their high rate of pay into account in not reducing their working week to 40 hours. The weekly rate for an experienced station hand is $42.65. If bis board is found by the employer, $9.66 is deducted which leaves the station hand, who is required to work 44 hours spread over  5i  days, with the princely amount of $32.99. lt is obvious to the station hands that they will never have their working week reduced unless they do take strike action to convince the Commission that their hours of work are too long. The amendments put forward by  Senator Bishop  to delete section 109 and the other provision will mean that any fines previously imposed on the unions will have no effect. I understand that fines amounting to $38,000 are owing by the unions. Those fines were imposed because of the ruthless attitude of employers in applying to the Commonwealth Industrial Court on every possible occasion for the imposition of penalties. 1 ask the Minister to advise the Committee of the other sections of the Act to which section 109 will apply if the clause now before the Senate is agreed to. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  which is in these terms: 
The Senate condemns this deceptive and negative Budget because it fails to meet the real needs of the Australian people, especially with respect to (a) standards of social service and war pensioners, (b) assistance to schools, hospital and urban authorities and (c) restructuring of stricken primary industries and because it introduces and increases taxes and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature. 
It is not necessary to look very far in the Budget Speech which was delivered on Tuesday, 18th August, by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  to learn the Government's intentions. In the second sentence he said: 
By these proposals the Government seeks to provide for a large increase in essential expenditures, especially on payments to the States, welfare, development and assistance to industry . . . 
Later in the Speech we are told of the assistance that this Budget will give to the wine growing industry. Under the heading Customs and Excise Duties' the Treasurer had this to say: 
In Australia, however, there has been one type of alcoholic beverage which, with a minor exception, has not been subject to excise duty at all. I refer here to wine. Consumption of wine has been rising strongly from yea. to year and, in the light of this trend, the evident profitability of wine production and the heavy taxation levied on other forms of alcoholic beverage, we have decided that a moderate excise duty of 50c per gallon should be placed on locally produced grape wine. 
Surely we are not expected to believe that 50c a gallon is a moderate excise duty on wine when we know that there are grades of wine which can be bought for SI. 50 a gallon. The 50c excise duty which the Government describes as moderate represents 33 per cent of the cost of a gallon of some grades of wine. That is evidence of deception in the Budget. The fact that the excise duty has been imposed on the wine industry indicates that no assistance has been given to the industry. On the contrary, the Budget will place restrictions on the industry and there is no doubt that in the future those restrictions will have a regressive effect on it. 
In their contributions in support of the Budget most honourable senators on the Government side have criticised the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions claiming that he organised employees and initially called a strike last week in protest against the Budget.  Senator Young  said today that  Mr Hawke  had initially called for a strike. That is completely untrue because no strike was called by the ACTU. In fact,  Mr Hawke  is only one member of the executive of the ACTU which unanimously carried a resolution for, not a strike, but a protest rally. Yet today and at other times we have heard honourable senators on the Government side criticising and condemning  Mr Hawke  as though he was the one who had called the protest rally. 
If you had been in Adelaide on the day you would have seen the workers and their representatives condemning this Budget which is one of the worst that this Government has introduced in the 21 years it has been in office.  Senator Young  also criticised the Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate because, in his opinion, they did not pay enough attention to primary industry. If one looks at the estimates of expenditure mentioned in the Budget Speech one finds a vast number of avenues of expenditure - payments to the Slates, defence, mental health institutions, home nursing services, education scholarships, assistance to industry, assistance to wool growers, advances for capital purposes and a host of other items that  Senator Young  expects the Leader of the Opposition here to deal with adequately and then pay enough attention to primary industry. Estimates of revenue were dealt with adequately by the Leader of the Opposition in the other place and by  Senator Murphy  here. 
I intend to deal later with the urgency motion which was moved on 19th August. Returning to the excise duty on wine, the impost of 50c a gallon will return to the Government only SI 5.2m in a full year. It appears that the grape growers in South Australia and in other States will have to shoulder the burden of the S30m subsidy which is to be paid to wool growers. 
I am very conversant with the wine industry in South Australia. Contrary to what  Senator Sim  said in this chamber a couple of weeks ago, namely, that no-one in the Opposition knew anything at all about primary industries, I believe that we know more about them than do many of the Government senators. If they knew anything about the primary industries, those industries, particularly the wheat and wool industries, would not be in the critical situation in which they are today. Time and again we have made suggestions by means of putting urgency motions to the Senate. Even in the short time I have been here 3 urgency motions have been moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, proposing schemes that would assist the primary industries. But, as usual, members of the Government parties have opposed any move whatsoever to try to assist the primary industries. 
The miserly increase of 50c for social service and war pensioners shows the contempt this Government has for our aged people, most of whom have worked for up to 50 years of their lives to help to build this country up to what it is. Pensioners are expected to exist on only one-third of the weekly amount the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission regards as a minimum wage for wage earners.  Mr Justice  Nimmo has stated that 250,000 low income families, representing 1 million Australians, are living below a miserably low poverty line. This position is certain to worsen when the effects of the Budget are felt. The miserable increase of 50c for pensioners will soon be absorbed in increases in the cost of cigarettes, petrol and even the wines that many elderly pensioners enjoy for medicinal purposes. Pensions should be increased by at least $5 a week if we are to raise the pensioners' standard of living to a reasonable level. 
The increase in the cost of living in the quarter from March to June this year was the highest for any quarter since 1967. Yet this Budget provides the lowest increase to pensioners since 1967. As a matter of fact, the cost of living index for the quarter ended June 1970 showed that the cost of living in Australia increased by Si a week. This Government can no longer repeat or rely on the old catchcry: 'Where is the money coming from?' When we read in the Press that Mount Isa Mines Ltd has made a record profit of $54m and that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has made a profit of $59m, we see where the answer is. Those profits alone would give every pensioner in Australia a further increase of $2 a week. Many other companies, such as General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd, Chrysler Australia Ltd, the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd and the various oil companies, to name just a few, have made enormous profits which should be taxed to provide the revenue necessary to meet urgent requirements in the form of better standards of social services, assistance to schools, etc. 
1 will leave that to the elected Government. The 10 per cent tax concession to taxpayers is weighted heavily in favour of people with incomes of more than $5,000 a year. People with incomes higher than that receive even greater tax relief. For example, a taxpayer with a wife and 1 child and a taxable income of $60 a week will gain only 60c a week from the concession; whereas a taxpayer with the same dependants but a taxable income of $160 a week will gain $4.30 a week. Over a period of 12 months a taxpayer receiving the average total wage of $75 a week will receive a reduction of $77 a year, compared with a reduction of $348.50 a year for a taxpayer with a taxable income of $10,000 a year and a reduction of $500.20 a year for a taxpayer with a taxable income of $16,000 a year. So again we see the discrimination against the low income earner. 
The impost of excise duty at the rate of 50c a gallon on the sale of wines and the  2i  per cent increase in the sales tax on motor vehicles and electrical appliances will adversely affect South Australia far more than any of the other States. The wine industry in South Australia has been recovering from a critical situation. In 1965 the Labor Government in that State had to find $500,000 from the State Bank to finance a grower co-operative to crush the grapes of growers who were not receiving the cost of production for their grapes. Following that, a royal commission was set up in South Australia. It investigated the prices being paid to the grape growers and also the prices being charged to the consumers. From then on prices were declared under the Prices Act. I believe that since then the system has worked in the interests of the consumers, the grape growers and the wine manufacturers. The wine industry in Australia has never had to be subsidised, as the dairy, wheat, sugar, wool and other primary industries have had to be. 
-It will be. Now that the wine industry has recovered and is in a viable position, the Government has imposed excise duty which will have a detrimental effect, particularly in South Australia where 70 per cent of Australia's table wines are produced. In South Australia hundreds of acres of vines have been planted in the last 2 years and will be in full production in about 3 years. Wine sales, which have been increasing over the last 5 years, will receive a severe setback as a result of the recent impost. This Government has deliberately discriminated against the only primary industry that has survived without subsidy. There is no doubt that the Government will be censured severely by the people of Australia at the next Senate election. 
The excise on wine is expected to return $12.9m in 1970-71 and $15.2m in a full year. As the Budget provides for an increase in revenue of $840m to a total of $7,922m, the amount of revenue to be derived from wines can only be regarded as minimal. Federal and State members of parliament have received letters of protest from the Wine and Brandy Producers Association. Typical of the comments was a recent report in the 'News' of a statement by the secretary-manager of the Association in which he said: 
The tax results from a combination of decadent thinking and an apparent desire by the Government to reduce all primary industries to the begging level. The damaging effect on wine sales could lead to a crisis next year in disposal of the grape crop. The wine industry is clearly being penalised for being self-sufficient - it has not asked for help in spite of a history of struggle. 
I believe that that is a very accurate assessment of what all wine producers are thinking, and that the Government should not delay in removing this burden on the industry. 
We have been criticised on the basis that we have not been paying enough attention to the primary industries. I do not think that even the primary producers would support that contention. If anyone has not been paying enough attention to the primary industries, it is the Government itself, because it has known for many years - since the record wool price of 132c per lb was being received in 1950-51 - that there has been a continuous and slow decline in the price of wool. But nothing has been done; no attempt has been made to arrest the fall in wool prices. It is no wonder that wool grower organisations and wool growers have been concerned by the falling prices over many years. The recent wool price of less than 30c per lb, representing a decrease of 9c per lb on last year's average, is an indication of the critical situation facing this important industry. Although wool growers have done very little to assist the industry, the Commonwealth Government must accept full responsibility for the critical situation in which this rural industry finds itself. The failure of the Government to take any positive steps to arrest the fall in wool prices since 1950-51- 
If the honourable senator would stop interjecting I may be able to advise him as to how the Labor Party would improve the critical situation that is facing the industry. The failure of the Government to take any positive steps to arrest the fall in wool prices since 1950-51 shows the complete disregard shown by the Government for the industry which, for more than 50 years, has been the predominant factor in Australia's development. Surely the Government will not continue to ignore the real national importance of this vital industry which last year added S790m to our export earnings. That figure would have been nearer $ 1,000m if wool growers had received a proper price for their commodity. 
In 1967-68 Australia produced 30 per cent of the world's total of all types of wool. The percentages of the world's total of other principal wool producers were: New Zealand 10 per cent; Argentina 7 per cent; South Africa 5 per cent and the United States of America 4 per cent. Production in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, China and eastern European countries together amounted to 21 per cent. Australia's wool clip is predominantly merino, whereas those of New Zealand and Argentina may be cross-bred wool, while the USSR clip is mainly of the carpet type. Figures released by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics show that in 1967-68 71.3 per cent of wool produced in Australia was of a very fine quality - 60s or finer - and 25 per cent was in the 58-60 group, with only 3.4 per cent below the 50s. Imports of wool by Japan have nearly doubled since 1959. Japan is now buying more than 20 per cent of the wool entering world trade compared with 1 1 per cent 10 years ago. The dramatic economic growth of Japan at an annual rate amounting to about 14 per cent continues to amaze the world and while this rate of growth is maintained Australia seems assured of a market for wool. Australia is now exporting about 40 per cent of its wool to Japan but we should not depend too heavily on that country as a market. We should be strenuously expanding our trade to Asian and other countries, by expert marketing methods, and not gambling on the Japanese economy for an outlet for nearly half of our wool exports. For example. China and India are already buyers of our wool. As a matter of fact, China is now rated sixth in the world of Australian export. 
As world standards of living improve, so will the demand for Australian wool grow. What is needed is a vigorous drive for new markets, particularly with the possibility of Great Britain joining the European Economic Community. This Government and previous governments have known for years that the United Kingdom would join the EEC when a Conservative government was returned to power in that country. Therefore, this Government is responsible for any retrogression in Australia because of the United Kingdom-EEC alliance. The political prejudice and discrimination of this Government prevented us for many years from taking advantage of markets in Socialist countries. 
World wool production has shown a relatively small increase - less than 1 per cent a year - over the past decade. Over the same period wool production in Australia has increased from about 1.800 million lb in 1960 to an estimated 2,000 million lb in 1969-70. Recent figures show that the production in Australia is well over the 2,000 million lb mark. This estimate of production represents an increase of  71  million lb or 36 per cent compared with i968-69. Reporting on consumption trends during 1969, the Commonwealth Secretariat in London reported that overall wool consumption among the world's 8 major wool using countries rose by nearly 4 per cent but consumption of other materials by wool textile industries was up 7 per cent due to the increasing demand for artificial fibres. While world wool consumption rose by about 4 per cent last year, according to the report issued by the Commonwealth Secretariat in London, production of wool increased by only 1 per cent. Therefore, it is apparent that if world production continues to increase at the same rate of only 1 per cent a year and world wool consumption increases at the rate of 4 per cent a year the prospects of selling our wool appear encouraging. 
The production, sale and distribution of wool in Australia has not changed very much over the last 40 years. The Opposition proposes to enlighten honourable senators opposite on our policy for the rural industries. Most wool growers engage contractors to do their shearing. These contractors are paid about SOc a sheep to do the complete shearing operation including shed work, classing and pressing of the wool. The majority of shearing contractors do not employ enough shed hands to handle the amount of fleeces shorn and consequently, through no fault of the shed hand but because of excess pressure of work, the shed hand is forced to hurry his work and does not have sufficient time to give proper attention to the wool. There is an urgent necessity to improve the preparation, sale and distribution of our wool if we are to meet the challenge from scientifically produced fibres. Competition from synthetics has created the biggest challenge with which the wool industry has been confronted. It is imperative that remedial measures be introduced to overcome the existing deficiencies in the Australian wool industry. The Government has failed dismally to implement effective legislation to assist the wool industry in this critical situation which has developed. 
The Opposition recognises that drastic changes are necessary in the distribution of our wool clip and over the past few months it has given the matter serious consideration. Our policy is to establish a statutory authority to acquire, appraise and market the Australian wool clip on behalf of the wool growers. A reserve price would be placed on 1 clip, with provision in the scheme, if necessary, to dispose of wool by auction, private treaty and tender and for bilateral agreements between Australia and other countries. Wool growers are beginning to realise that the only way to maintain a satisfactory price for their wool is to place an embargo on wool exports below a minimum price. A meeting of wool growers in New South Wales, supporting a proposition for an embargo on wool exports at a price less than an average of 45c a lb, is an encouraging sign that wool growers are prepared to adopt a more constructive approach to their problems. I noticed in the Press today that a meeting of the New South Wales Woolgrowers Association carried a similar resolution that an embargo should be placed on wool sold for less than 20c a lb. The Labor Party supports these propositions. It is about time the Government supported them also. 
I have, had a lot of experience in the wool industry. The information I have is that the wool growers would be satisfied with 45c a lb instead of the 22c a lb that they are getting today. 
I am talking about the average wool grower, which the honourable senator is not. The partial lifting of the export ban on merino rams further illustrates the Government's complete disregard for the small wool growers. The argument put forward by the wool industry that Australia by exporting her merino rams can help other countries increase their wool production and increase wool sales, and thus prevent synthetics from taking over a larger share of the world textile market, has no foundation. How can it be seriously maintained thai wool growers in Australia would obtain higher prices for their wool as a result of growers in other countries producing more of the high quality wool which represents the bulk of our clip? Any increase in world supplies, unless there is a comparable increase in demand, must inevitably lower the price of wool. 
The Government's decision to lift the export ban on merino rams is very dangerous and if allowed to be carried out will further aggravate the position in the industry. No other country can now compete with the fine merino wool produced in Australia, and if we want to retain this advantage our merino rams should not be exported. Wool growers in Australia must accept the challenge of strong competition from other fibres, lt is essential that we improve the quality of our wool which has been neglected over the years. The high prices previously paid for wool and the fact that we have been able to dispose of our wool clip have been contributing factors in the 'couldn't care less' attitude of the Government. 
Farmers should stop blaming arbitration as being the cause of the cost-price squeeze which has placed rural industry in a very critical position. On the contrary, the arbitration system in Australia has been extremely generous to employers in the rural industry. Where farm labour is covered by the conditions of an award, the Arbitration Commission has exempted the farmer from the standard 40-hour week. An application by the Austraiian Workers Union for a 40-hour week for station hands employed under the Federal Pastoral Industry Award was rejected. Farm labourers are required at present to work a 44-hour week spread over a period of Sidays.  Senator Sim  referred to this matter about 2 weeks ago when he made a trenchant attack on the Australian Workers Union because it advised its members employed in the pastoral industry to work a 40-hour week. I remind  Senator Sim  that the national newspaper also supports the Australian Workers Union in its struggle for a 40-hour week for employees in the pastoral industry. 
The national newspaper, the 'Australian'. Station hands are required to work a 5±-day week for only $42.40. If their keep is provided, $9.66 is deducted, leaving the princely amount of $32,74 for a 44-hour week. This is the position which  Senator Sim  wants to continue indefinitely. Any overtime worked, irrespective of how much, is forfeited if it is not claimed within 4 weeks. There is absolutely no evidence that increased costs in rural industry in any way can be attributed to any significant increase in the wages being paid to rural workers. As a matter of fact, if pastoral workers worked for nothing and if pastoralists got their sheep shorn for nothing, rural industry would still be in a critical position. Honourable senators opposite will not solve the problems facing rural industry by attacking the workers in that industry. It has been very noticeable in this chamber since I have been here that not one honourable senator has mentioned the exorbitant profits that have been made by some companies in Australia. The Budget did not refer to the profits that are being made. These profits are the reason why today rural industry is facing this problem of the cost-price squeeze; it is not because of the miserly amount of $32.74 for a 44-hour week that the wealthy wool growers have paid to their station hands over the years - and I repeat that the station hands do not receive overtime unless it is claimed within 4 weeks. 
On 19th August last  Senator O'Byrne  moved an urgency motion which referred to a reconstruction of the rural economy. As usual, the motion was strenuously opposed by honourable senators opposite. During the debate  Senator Sim  made a trenchant attack on the Australian Workers Union for advising its members employed in the pastoral industry to work a 40-hour week.  Senator Sim  apparently supports the feudal nature of the pastoral industry and the retention of the 44-hour week for workers who are employed under appalling living conditions in the outback and remote areas in the Commonwealth. I unreservedly support the Australian Workers Union in its stand for a 40-hour week for station hands and I commend the officials of the Union for their belated attempt to acquire for station hands the same standard working week as was introduced for other workers by the Commonwealth Industrial Court in 1947 - 23 years ago. An editorial appeared in the 'Australian' on Monday, 3rd August, 1970, supporting the Australian Workers Union in its stand for a 40-hour week for station hands. It read:  ls the 40-hour week really still an industrial issue in Australia? Only, it would seem in the pastoral industry - and that by courtesy of the same tribunal that set 40 hours as the standard working week more than two decades  ago.  Now comes the inevitable aftermath of the astonishing decision by the Arbitration Commission in June that the peculiarly 'feudal1 nature of the pastoral industry should place its workers outside (he general standards of the workforce. 
On the same day as the Australian Workers Union decision to use force to win its claim for a 40-hour week, coal miners were awarded  a  35-hour week. 
Anyone with any knowledge of the pastoral industry would know that there is no harder occupation 'anywhere in Australia than that of shearing. In one instance the Commission granted a 35-hour week, which is 5 hours below the recognised standard working week in Australia, and in another instance the Commission rejected an application for a 40-hour week for another section of industry. The editorial continued: 
Would coal miners still be working 44 hours if their industry found it possible to remain 'feudal' instead of being forced to modernise and mechanise? 
Tactically, the AWU is in the unfortunate position of plainly flouting "iiic umpire's decision'. But the fundamental nature of the claims makes it quite certain that the station-hands will have extensive public sympathy as well as full backing from the trade union movement. Even in the  present  troubled climate, a label like industrial lawlessness' seems to hang incongruously on action to win a 40-hour week. 
The fight beginning today in the pastoral industry raises some troubling questions about the arbitration system and its future. If the stationhands had done as the oil refinery workers did, and used direct action before approaching the commission, would they have received the same treatment? If a claim like this can be rejected in mid-1970 can (he unions be expected to show confidence in the system? If not even basic standards can be relied upon, is it likely tha! unions will jeopardise what they consider lo be vital interests by approaching the commission? 
Such questions and criticisms directed towards the commission ure based, of course, on the view that the June pastoral industry judgment was palpably wrong - so out of tune with both basic standards and industrial realities that it had to lead to the events now taking shape. The Arbitration Commission is capable of making mistakes. This was one. So was the rather similar judgment recently applying obsolete standards to the question of nurses' pay. 
Eventually, the mistake in the nurses' case was corrected. It should have been corrected without the intervening four weeks' disruption of Canberra hospital services, but it was done. There should bc no need in the station hands' case to paralyse the pastoral industry before a similar mistake is similarly corrected by the Arbitration Commission. 
I remind  Senator Sim  that not only does the editorial in the 'Australian' support the struggle of the Australian Workers Union for a 40-hour week for station hands but also that the International Labour Conference in 1936 supported the 40-hour week proposal. 
That is right. At the International Labour Conference in 1936 the Commonwealth Government aligned itself with a union proposition that there should be a 40-hour week. This was supported on the grounds that it would be a means of alleviating unemployment and would further the social and industrial standards of the Australian worker. Although this was supported by the Commonwealth Government in 1936, for 34 years the Government still had done nothing to implement the decision of the International Labour Conference until a strong campaign was initiated by (he Australian Council of Trade Unions and supported by the Australian Workers Union in regard to pastoral workers. Shearers in Queensland in 1946. and in other Stales before that year, decided that 
I  hey would not work more than 40 hours a week. United militant action by unions to implement the International Labour Conference decision for a 40-hour week was ultimately recognised by the New South Wales Labor Government which introduced legislation to give all workers under State awards a 40-hour week as from 1st  July  1947. 
After a prolonged hearing and the usual unnecessary delays the Commonwealth Industrial Court delivered judgment on 8th September 1947 granting the unions' claim for a 40-hour standard working week. This historic decision flowed into Federal and State awards all over Australia, with one exception - station hands covered by the Federal Pastoral Industry Award. Nearly 23 years have elapsed since the standard working week of 40 hours was introduced. Yet we still see the anomaly of a section of workers in the pastoral industry required lo work a 44-hour week. Farmers and their elected parliamentarians who have been in government for 21 years should realise that the continued decline in wool prices is the cause of the crisis in the industry; the crisis has not been brought about by the relatively small increases in costs through automatic wage adjustments. Why should we continue to allow the wool buying cartels the luxury of dictating the prices of our wool? These cartels are obviously operating in collusion for the purpose of keeping wool prices low and will do so while the Government continues its negative attitude to this problem. 
What is urgently needed is the complete restructuring of our rural industry, together with a co-ordinated policy on production and distribution of our wool, wheat, meat, etc. This is essential in order to avoid a surplus of one commodity simply because the production price of another is uneconomic! When during the 1960s wool prices' continued to fall there was a mass diversification from wool growing to the more profitable wheat growing. Farmers were encouraged by the Government to grow more and more wheat instead of being warned of the possibility of a world carryover of wheat which was inevitable. The Year Book of Australia 1969 shows that in New South Wales alone from 1964-65 to 1967-68 there was an increase of 4,469 farms growing 20 acres and upwards of wheat for grain. Farmers continued to increase wheat production and, according to reliable figures, acreages increased from 13.438.928 in the year 1960-61 to 26,796.835 in 1968-69. This increase showed that wheat acreages nearly doubled during this period, with the resultant increase in production over the same period from 273,716,000 bushels in 1960-61 to the record production of 543,950,000 bushels in 1968-69. 
The average disposal of wheat over the past 10 years through export and local consumption has been about 300 million bushels a year. Therefore, production in excess of this amount would make it necessary to find new markets on which to dispose of any increased amounts. We should not rely on droughts in China or the Soviet Union; we should be looking for other areas in which to dispose of our surplus wheat. We should not be waiting for some miracle to happen, as apparently this Government has been doing since the record production of 1968-69. What is urgently needed is a complete reappraisal of our agricultural policies. Other agriculturally advanced countries also have considerably increased crop yields over the last few years by using modern methods which have eradicated crop disease and also by using effective fertilisers. The Internationa! Wheat Council estimated that carry over wheat stocks throughout the world would total 70 million metric tons by the end of last year. Therefore it is apparent that the large carryover of wheat is a problem of most of the major wheat producing countries, with the exception of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. They seem to dispose of the wheat that they grow. 
While the shipping monopolies continue to charge exorbitant freights the distribution of surplus wheat to the starving millions throughout the world will be deferred indefinitely. The Commonwealth Government should initiate an international conference of the major agricultural countries throughout the world in an endeavour to remedy the current critical economic situation confronting thousands of farmers not only in Australia but also throughout the world. As there is not a world surplus of wool, Australia can go a long way in solving its problem of surplus wheat by introducing a marketing scheme which will give a greater return to the wool growers. Then the thousands of wool growers who have in recent years diversified to wheat growing will change back to wool production. That indicates what a Labor government would do with regard to the political situation in the rural industries. The payment of $30m as a subsidy to wool growers will not solve the situation; it is a temporary measure only which will give some temporary relief to the wool growers who have found themselves in this predicament because we have seen returned a succession of Libera! governments, many of the supporters of which have large rural properties but apparently have no answer on how to run those properties to obviate any crisis that is occurring. It seems that with our policy the Labor Party will eventually be called upon to save the rural industries in Australia from the critical situation with which they are now confronted. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior recognise the importance of granting Aboriginal land rights in terras of recognising Aboriginal ownership of existing Aboriginal reserves and Aboriginal ownership of traditional tribal land at present owned and leased by the Crown? If the Minister does not recognise these Aboriginal land rights, will he explain how culturally and economically depressed groups of Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory are to be assisted to develop into healthy, cohesive and selfsupporting communities? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Will the Government, per medium of the Department of Shipping and Transport or the Australian National Line, identify the overseas shipping consortiums that intend to intervene in the determination of higher freight rates on Australian primary exports? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI think the honourable senator's question should be put to the Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport. I would rather imagine that he would ask that it be put on notice because it seeks some information and asks for an opinion on a matter of policy. I suggest the honourable senator put the question on notice and see what happens. 
asked the Minister  representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Asthe District Council of Streaky Bay in South Australia and residents at Poochera and Streaky Bay were informed, in a statement by the Postmaster-General, appearing in the 'West Coast Sentinel' in June 1969, 'that the TV Station at Ceduna will service country west of Penong and east to Poochera and Streaky Bay', and as the statement was subsequently shown to be technically incorrect, will the Postmaster-General now consider a priority claim for the Streaky Bay and Poochera areas of Eyre Peninsula for future installation which will provide a satisfactory - TV reception to the residents in that area. 
Unfortunately a statement was attributed to me in the 'West Coast Sentinel' which was quite contrary to any statements I have made regarding the likely coverage of the national television station authorised for Ceduna. As the honourable senator is aware the Streaky Bay and Poochera areas will not benefit fromthe Ceduna station because of the considerable distance involved.The Australian Broadcasting Control Board is continuously examining ways and means of extending the television service, but it would not be appropriate to single out the areasthe honourable senator mentions fromthe very many areas which desire television. In fact I cannot say what the prospects are for the provision of television in any particular additional areas at this stage. 
asked the Minis  ter representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Does the Government, through either the Department of Shipping and Transport or the Australian National Line, identify which overseas shipping consortia intend to initiate action to determine higher freight rates on Australian Primary exports. 
-I present from 196 citizens of the State of South Australia the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth, 
That due to higher living costs, persons on social service pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. A parity allowance should be paid to pensioners in remote areas. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with the A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Pensioners Federation and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring out the wishes expressed in our petition; so that our citizens who arc receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether his attention has been drawn to the sharp drop in the wholesale sales of dry white table wines in South Australia during the quarter before the Budget. Sales in the quarter ended in June were 42,000 gallons less than the sales for the quarter ended last December. In view of the fact that wine is now subject to a drastic excise impost will the Leader of the Government in the Senate consult with his Cabinet colleagues in an endeavour to keep the position of the wine industry under constant review and preserve it from suffering the same fate as most of our other rural industries have suffered? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not aware of any variation in the wholesale selling of wine. Therefore I am not in a position to make any valid comment on the effect the imposition of an excise has had on the wine industry, ft is the traditional responsibility of the Department of Customs and Excise to watch the effect which the imposition of an excise has on any commodity. Of course, we all understand the principle of diminishing returns. I point out to the honourable senator that it is quite wrong to say that the excise on wine is a heavy impost. When one considers it in terms of the excise on fortified wines and other beverages one will appreciate that it is a relatively modest impost. However, as I said earlier, it is the responsibility of the Department of Customs and Excise to watch movements in this industry. I suggest to the honourable senator that if he examines the figures again he will probably find that what has happened has been a normal periodical fluctuation in demand. If not, it has probably been the usual result when a charge is first imposed. If I am any judge of the wine drinkers in this country there will very soon be a further natural expansion in the enjoyment of light wines by Australians. 
T intend to be very brief, f support my colleagues in opposition to this Bill. They have adequately covered most of the items that will be affected by the Bill. I intend to confine myself to the effects of the excise duty on the sale of wine. First I would like to express my surprise that there have been so few Government speakers on this bill. It would appear that only one Government supporter.  Senator Laucke  from South Australia, is at all interested in the wine industry in Australia. Honourable senators opposite have tended to ignore the impost of excise on this industry, although no doubt it will have a disastrous effect on the industry. Sales of wine will suffer and this of course will have a detrimental effect on the industry, particularly in South Australia whch produces about 70 per cent of the total quantity of wine consumed in Australia or exported. Production and consumption of wine in Australia have been rising astronomically over the last 5 years and it now seems that the Government either is concerned that the Australian people are enjoying wine too much or wants to retard the industry and put it in the same position as many other rural industries are in at the present time. There is no need to remind honourable senators of the plight of other rural industries. 
For many years grape growers and wine makers in South Australia had to carry a very depressed industry. It was so depressed that in 1965 the South Australian Labor Government had to find $500,000 from the State Bank to finance a growers' co-operative to crush the grapes of growers who were not being paid even the cost of production for their grapes. You,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  would be well aware that in our State we have growers of wine grapes in the River Murray irrigation areas, the Barossa Valley, the south east and the south coast. For many years the industry was depressed particularly in the River Murray irrigation areas where returned soldiers were settled after World War 1. There was no sale for their grapes which at that time were mainly used in the dried fruits industry. But some dual purpose grapes were introduced, such as sultanas which are now being used as a blending grape to produce a table wine, and it is only in recent years that growers in South Australia have been in such a position that the industry has shown a worthwhile return. 
As my colleague  Senator Toohey  reminds me, the industry was depressed for years and many growers had to walk off. their properties. There was no sale whatsoever for a good deal of the wine grapes, particularly those that were used in the making of fortified wines. The industry only recovered from this situation in the last 3 or 4 years. Because of the depression in the wine industry in the years prior to 1965, a royal commission was set up to investigate the prices being paid to grape growers and the prices of wines to consumers. Following that inquiry the prices of wine grapes were fixed under the Prices Act and they have been controlled since that time. I believe that this system of price fixation has worked satisfactorily, not only from the point of view of growers but also from that of the consumers and wine manufacturers. Now, just, when this industry is in a satisfactory position and when growers are receiving adequate returns for .their labour, the Government has decided to apply an impost which no doubt will retard and impede the progress of the industry. lt is very hard to understand why the Government has done this. It estimates that it will receive Si 5.2m in a full year by this means and this seems a very insignificant amount when we consider the fact that the 1970-71 Budget is in the vicinity of $7.922m. It is apparent.  Mr President,  that the Government wants to reduce the wine industry to the same critical level as other rural industries in Australia. The damaging effect on wine sales of this proposed duty will lead to a crisis next year so far as the disposal of our grape crop is concerned. I remind the Senate that the wine grape crop and the amount of wine produced will increase quite a lot in the next few years because of recent plantings. Unless we can find more export markets or can increase local consumption obviously we will have a surplus, particularly in South Australia which produces so much of our wine grapes. Hundreds of vines have been planted throughout that State and it is expected that most of them will come into production within 2 years. They probably will be in full production within 5 years. This will mean that hundreds of thousands of gallons of wine will have to be disposed of. 
Surely the imposition of this excise of 50c a gallon will have an effect on the consumption of wine. According to figures I have obtained, our biggest seller is the cheaper wine which can be bought for as low as $1.50 a gallon. The imposition of 50c means that the price of that commodity has been increased by one-third. Since the announcement of this excise, of course, manufacturers and wine sellers have increased the prices of their wines by from 1 5c to 30c a bottle. 
Only 8c. 
The fact is that the price of certain wine has increased since the announcement of this excise duty. This wine is now selling at between 1 5c and 30c more a bottle. The Government, for some inexplicable reasons, has decided to penalise the only rural industry in Australia which has proved to be self-sufficient. Figures recently released by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics show that wholesale sales of white table wines in South Australia fell sharply during the quarter ended in June. They indicate that sales in that period were 42.000 gallons lower than those for the quarter ended last December. There was a decline in sales of a particular type of table wine even before the effects of this proposed excise were felt in this industry. One would have thought that the Government would have been aware of the decline in sales and that it would have deferred its intention of imposing this excise on the wine industry. 
The Government should defer this Bill. This is the first time in Australian history that a tax has been imposed on commercial wine. It should be deferred until we know the effect of the increased grape plantings, which no doubt will increase wine production. If this Bill is not deferred I believe that many Australians who have switched from drinking beer, tea and other beverages to drinking table wine will go back to those other beverages. They will lose the taste that they have acquired for wines which have become so popular over the last 5 years. All credit for the increased popularity of table wines must be given to the expertise of the industrial chemists in our wine-making firms. They produced wines acceptable to the Australian people. Many Australians now enjoy them. 
For some reasons not spelt out in the second reading speech on this Bill, exemption from this excise duty is to be granted in respect of wine produced  by  people for their own consumption. This exemption applies to up to 400 gallons a year. That seems to me to be an excessive amount for home consumption. It represents about 7 bottles a day. 
Yes. lt seems to me that if these people who are exempt from this excise to the extent of 400 gallons a year consume about 7 bottles a day they would be in a perpetual state of intoxication. I would like the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  in this chamber, to explain to me why the exemption on wine produced by a person for his own use covers up to 400 gallons. 1 have nothing against people making wine for their own use. A lot of people from European countries are accustomed to doing this. As a matter of fact, a lot of metropolitan city dwellers who grow grapes make small quantities of wine. However it seems to me that 400 gallons is excessive and I would like this matter explained by the Minister.  Mr President,  I hope that the Government will defer implementation of this Bill before its effect hits the industry. Once an industry is retarded it takes a long time to recover. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry been drawn to a report in the 'Australian' under the heading 'Tougher Stance on Wheat by China' which refers to a United States report, issued in Washington, that China is harvesting record crops and will this year export more primary produce than she imports? Does this not place China in a stronger position with respect to her balance of trade? What effect will this have on the future of our trade with that country? 
I am asked to state whether or not the fact that a country has more to export than normal will have some bearing on its imports. I cannot look into the crystal ball and give an answer to that. One would need to look at all the circumstances associated with it. I would not be in a position - I do not suppose anybody would be - to make a considered judgment on the implications of China's productivity and her exports as related to her imports of wheat. For that reason I cannot add anything to the newspaper report which obviously was the basis of the honourable senators question. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
To which companies, organisations, local governments, and individuals has the Common wealth Superannuation Board loaned money over the years 1961-62, 1962-63 and 1963-64. 
How much was involved in each loan and what rate of interest was charged. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The Superannuation Board has supplied the following information: 

<graphic href="046232197011022_17_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="046232197011022_18_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="046232197011022_19_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="046232197011022_21_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Superannuation Board, which includes a member elected by the contributors, who is a party to all investment decisions, enters into private negotiations when a loan is to be secured by a mortgage of land or real property. Such negotiations are confidential between the Board and its client and reflect the established practice for lending institutions such as the Superannuation Board. The Board does not, therefore, publish details of individual mortgage investments. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the States over the next 3 financial years grants to investigate the discharge of rivers and the measurement of underground waters. Clause 4 contains the provision for grants to be used for the measurement of the discharge of rivers, and clause 5 provides for grants in respect of expenditure on underground water investigations. The Bill contains 2 schedules, one of which sets out the amounts to be paid to the States for expenditure on the measurement of the discharge of rivers; the other schedule sets out the amounts to be paid to the States to carry out the invesigation and measurement of underground water resources. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill, although I am personally very critical of the amounts allocated to South Australia, particularly in the Second Schedule. For the investigation and measurement of underground water resources in the next 3 years South Australia is to receive annually only  $134,900.  South Australia is the driest State in the driest continent in the world. About  90  per cent of South Australia has an average annual rainfall of less than  15  inches. Therefore I believe that the amounts allocated to South Australia should be considerably increased to enable more extensive investigation of underground water supplies. 
In providing finance for the measurement of water resources it is necessary to bear in mind that the area of Australia is nearly  3  million square miles. Of that area  39  per cent has an average annual rainfall of less than  10  inches; a further  20  per cent has an average annual rainfall of between  10  and  15  inches. As I have mentioned. South Australia is by far the driest State having an average rainfall of less than  15  inches a year over  92  per cent of the State whereas Western Australia has an average rainfall of less than  15  inches a year over  80  per cent of its area. Having regard to the low rainfall it is imperative to our national development that all of our water resources be investigated thoroughly. To obtain the necessary information, various measurements have to be taken at points on rivers and our underground resources have to be calculated so that we can learn as much as possible about our water resources which, in most cases, are flowing out to sea. 
The river systems in Australia comprise mostly rivers which are connected to the coastline and are outward flowing. There is one exception, of course, and it is by far the biggest river system in Australia. I refer to the Murray-Darling river system, the tributaries of which cover a basin of approximately  400,000  square miles and which has a catchment area of only  158,000  square miles. The Murray River extends into  3  States. In South Australia it is the only source of water from rivers. The remainder of the rivers flow only in winter and for the rest of the year are dry. Although we regard the Murray River as a big water system, it is only a trickle when compared with river systems in other parts of the world. Therefore it is vital that every effort be made to take regular measurements not only on the Murray River but also on other rivers in those States which rely mainly on rivers for their water supply to ensure that there is a regular supply of water and that the water is of good quality. 
The Murray River is probably unique in that it flows over vast areas of level country. This has led to many irrigation schemes being implemented along the river, particularly in South Australia where vast areas on which are grown the fruits that form the basis of our dried fruits industry are under irrigation. It is essential, particularly for the dried fruits industry, that the water bc of good quality and that it be kept at good quality otherwise the long years of work put in by the veterans of the  2  world wars would be lost because of salinity and poor quality water. 
This Bill provides the major portion of the finance required to measure our underground water resources. Australia probably has more underground water than has any other country in the world. In fact, approximately  1  million square miles of Australia has underlying it artesian and sub-artesian waters. That is practically onethird of the area of continental Australia. Our underground water supplies vary considerably. Some cover only a few hundred square miles whereas others cover thousands of square miles. The largest of these underground water basins is the Great Artesian Basin. It is the biggest underground water supply in the world, ft covers about two-thirds of Queensland and extends into New South Wales, South Australia and central Australia. Pastoral properties in the arid areas rely quite a lot on the underground artesian supplies in those areas for water for their stock. 
The quantity and quality of the water in these underground supplies vary very considerably. In some parts of Australia the salt content of the water is as low as  6  grains to the gallon. In parts of South Australia the salt content rises to  3  oz to the gallon, although in most areas it is less than  100  grains to the gallon. One bore in particular in the Murray River area of South Australia has an extremely high salinity of  10J  oz to the gallon. Throughout Australia thousands of bores have been sunk over the years and vast water supplies have been drawn from them, lt is estimated that in the Great Artesian Basin there are  2,500  flowing bores and more than  5,000  sub-artesian bores. Several of those bores had an initial flow of 1 million gallons a day, whilst others have been reported to have yields of about 5 million gallons a day. 
For many years this water apparently had no value. I have travelled extensively throughout Australia, including the outer pastoral areas. I have seen bores put down and the water just allowed to run to waste at the rate of millions of gallons a day. There were no restrictions whatsoever. The water was running to waste over wastelands, evaporating or being absorbed into the ground over which it passed. ] believe that to some extent that situation has been improved, and nowadays proper casing is put down and the water supplies from the artesian areas can be regulated or even cut off completely while they are not in use. Vast areas in which there is low effective rainfall and in which surface water supplies are inadequate rely on the underground supplies mainly for the raising of sheep and cattle but also for domestic supplies and in some places for town supplies. In some cases the railways rely a lot on underground water supplies. 
In South Australia - the State I represent - there are several small underground water supplies which are very vital in augmenting our limited supplies of water. Over the last few years, owing to the exorbitant cost of land in the inner metropolitan area and increased water rates and council rates, growers of vegetables and fruit have found it necessary for economic reasons to move to the outer metropolitan area where they can grow their products far more economically than in the inner metropolitan area where, as I have said, the land costs are extremely high and the rates are high. Therefore they have had to  rely  on an area with a small underground water supply. This supply in South Australia is essential. Without it water would have to come from the Engineering and Water Supply Department at a cost of about 44c per thousand gallons. This would mean that the cost of producing vegetables in that State would be increased considerably. We in South Australia believe that we grow not only the best vegetables in the Commonwealth but the cheapest. For us to continue doing this it is essential that we continue taking various measurements of underground water sup plies in order to ensure that the flow is regular and of good" quality. 
There has been concern in South Australia over the water supply in the north of the State. A number of bores were put down and the State Government found it necessary to introduce controlling legislation. An Act known as the Underground Waters Preservation Act was introduced in South Australia some time back. Its purpose is to regulate the taking of water from this underground supply. Meters have been put on a lot of bores so that users are limited. This step was essential to prevent the supply being depleted and the area concerned being without water. 
I mentioned previously that for the next 3 years South Australia is to receive SI 30.000 a year for the measurement of underground water supplies. 1 said that that was not sufficient to meet its requirements. As a matter of fact the South Australian Mines Department spent $337,987 for this purpose in the last financial year. That was a vastly greater sum than that provided in this Bill. 
This Bill does assist the States in the field of measurement of water supplies and water resources but we of the Opposition believe that it does not go far enough. We believe it is necessary to establish a national water resources authority for the purpose of planning, co-ordinating and developing the surface and sub-surface water resources throughout Australia on Federal, State and regional levels. However,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  this Bill does make some provision and I noticed that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator  Cotton),  representing the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  said in his second reading speech that this matter is to be reviewed in, I think, 2 years time. It is possible that the allocations to the States will be increased when the matter is reviewed. 
Under the Stales Grants (Special Assistance) Bill I refer to a matter that has come to my attention in relation to grants for the construction of (he Whyalla to Port Augusta railway. Money was allocated by the Commonwealth Government for the construction of this railway line, and since then tenders have been called for not only the construction but also the supply of materials. I have received today information that a number of tenders were received from South Australia to supply 125,000 concrete sleepers and also the iron fastenings which are built into the sleepers. Both the Chief Civil Engineer of the Commonwealth Railways and the Commissioner recommend that concrete sleepers be supplied for this project. Although initially concrete sleepers are slightly dearer than the ordinary wooden sleepers, they have a life expectancy of 50 years compared with approximately 20 years for wooden sleepers. As we know, wooden sleepers need maintenance after about 10 or 15 years. So the overall cost of concrete sleepers over a period would work out to be lower than that of wooden sleepers. 
I have received information from a fairly reliable source that some political pressure has been used against the contractors in relation to the tenders which have been called for the sleepers. The sleepers could be manufactured either at Whyalla or Port Augusta which are the 2 cities between which the railway is to be constructed. This would mean employment to the State of South Australia of some 40 people and it would give to that State this extra work which is vitally needed. 
The other matter 1 wish to discuss is the fastenings which are to be built into the concrete sleepers. A manufacturing firm in South Australia, David Shearer Ltd of Mannum, manufactures mainly agricultural implements. Due to the plight of the rural industry it has had to retrench a lot of its employees. This firm has placed a tender for the supply of these iron fastenings. If the contract is awarded to that firm it will give that small town some work to keep the industry going. We, and the people in South Australia, are concerned that political pressure is being used which could take this work away from South Australia. The railway is to be built in South Australia and if possible the sleepers to be used should be provided from a firm in that State. 
I understand that the tender price is the lowest tender ever submitted in the Commonwealth for concrete sleepers. If the contract for the supply of 125,000 sleepers is not awarded to that firm the reason cannot be that the price is too high. It must be some other reason. Perhaps a reason could be that South Australia had the audacity to elect a Labor Party Government in May this year, or perhaps, because the Federal members from the Government parties were annihilated at the Commonwealth election held last year, the Gorton Government is going to take it out on South Australia and deprive our State of this vital industry. I would like the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  to investigate this matter. The chief civil engineer and the Commissioner for Commonwealth Railways both recommended that concrete sleepers should be used. I would think that with their knowledge of railways their opinion would be accepted and that a substitute such as wooden sleepers would not be used. I hope that the Minister will make investigations and that if the tenders for this project are not let he will give consideration to the lenders submitted from South Australia for the supply of not only the malleable iron fastenings but also the 125,000 concrete sleepers. 
My  question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. What will be the cost of extensions on the Senate side of Parliament House, including any other proposed alterations or extensions in the near future? Did the Government consider the economic situation when proceeding with this expenditure? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not sure that this is a matter to which the Treasurer should respond or whether it is something that you,  Mr President,  may wish to reply to. For that reason I shall take the question as being on notice and have the matter examined. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Is the Minister still confident that the Australian Wheat Board will increase its wheat sales to China over last year's sales as he predicted in reply to a question from  Senator O'Byrne  on 16th October 1970? What evidence does the Minister have, if any, of China resuming imports of Australian wheat? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Do the latest quarterly figures released by the Bureau of Census and Statistics, which show an ominous drastic slump insales of South Australian wines, amounting to 40,000 gallons. 
Will consideration be given to the lifting of the excise impost so as to restore the wine making industry to its pre-budget level of prosperity, and preserve this valuable industry from the fate suffered by other rural industries. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it a fact that the salaries of most Commonwealth public servants have been increased by about 20 per cent since July 1967? Has there been an increase in superannuation payments to retired Commonwealth public servants since that date? If not, when can those retired public servants expect an adjustment to their superannuation payments to offset cost of living increases during that period? 
The honourable senator's question warrants a considered reply from the Treasurer. I will take it upon myself to get a reply for the honourable senator. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Has the Minister any figures to support his contention that the sales of wheat for export in the current year are in excess of the sales in the same period last year? If so, will he make available to the Senate as soon as possible a detailed comparison? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has read an article in today's Melbourne 'Age' referring to  Dr Jackson,  the  President  of the Australian Table Tennis Association, who says that he has been profoundly moved by his expert?ences in China, where he has found that the people have been friendly and warm, and everyone is well fed, and that be is convinced that China does not intend any aggression. So impressed is  Dr Jackson  with what he has seen that he intends to take 2 months off from his practice in Adelaide to write and lecture in Australia about China. Does the Government intend to do anything at all to relieve the tension between our country and China which has had a disastrous effect on our rural industries, particularly on our wheat exports? 
I have not had the advantage of reading what  Dr Jackson  said, as reported in the Melbourne 'Age'. I am, therefore, not able to comment on it and, in any event, do not think I would comment on what  Dr Jackson's  personal experiences were. As to the balance of the question, as I repeated several days ago in this chamber, we had a full scale debate on this issue last week during the discussion of a matter of urgency. 1 have nothing to add to what was said by the Minister representing the Government on that occasion. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has he seen the announcement by Carlton and United Breweries that they have withdrawn the non-returnable stubby bottle from use and have replaced it with a returnable bottle which can be re-cycled? Will the Minister take the necessary steps to encourage other bottling industries to abandon the use of non-returnable bottles which, in the past, have made such a dreadful contribution to the rubbish befouling the Australian countryside? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How much will the extensions on the Senate side of Parliament House cost, including any other alterations proposed in the near future. 
Did the Government consider the economic situation when proceeding with this expenditure. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
A contract for extensions to the Parliament House was let in late 1970 for approximately $2m. Of this sum, approximately$1m will be required for construction of the western or Senate wing and directly associated works. 
In the light of the economic situation, the Government has decided to defer the construction of the front east and front west elements of the extensions. 
I  ask  the Minister for Health whether he has seen the announcement by the Victorian Chief Secretary that from 1st June  road  accident injuries will be a 'notifiable condition' and that doctors will be obliged to report to the Health Department in detail on all injuries caused by road accidents. Will the Minister consider adopting a  similar  policy in the Territories under  Commonwealth  control? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are pensioners, in some cases given prescriptions from medical practitioners for drugs in the belief that they arc on the free list of pharmaceutical benefits, only to find on presentation to a pharmacist that the drugs have been removed from the list; if so, will the Minister make inquiries and, if necessary, take action to ensure that both pharmacists and medical practitioners are supplied with identical and current lists of free drugs. 
Both pharmacists and medical practitioners are supplied with identical and current lists of pharmaceutical benefits. Despitethis, it is possible that a prescription could inadvertenlly be written by a doctor for a drug no longer on the list of benefits. 
Current information is conveyed to the medical profession in two ways - 
by means of an entry in the 'Explanatory Circular' which  forms part  of the 'Schedule of Benefits for Medical Practitioners' issued three times a year. 
additions and deletions of drugs from the benefit list are notified to the 'Medical Journal of Australia' and the 'Annals of General Practice' for publication. 
The information supplied to medical practitioners concerning additions and deletions of drugs to the list of benefits is supplied concurrently to chemists in the publication, 'Schedule of Benefits for Approved Chemists' which is also issued three times a year. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. 1 ask: Is the Minister aware that last year the United States Senate passed a Bill to outlaw cigarette advertising from radio and television and to strengthen health warnings on cigarette packets? Will the Government now recognise the immense power of advertising in promoting the use of a proven health hazard and take steps to impose a similar ban in Australia or will the great economic forces aligned against such a ban once again prove how much influence they exert on the Government? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been made aware of allegations by members of the Australian Workers Union that wool growers are stockpiling inferior or dirty wool in anticipation of the Government fixing a minimum price? Will the Minister make inquiries into the validity of the allegations and take action, if necessary, to avoid payment of huge sums of money for inferior wool which wool growers have hoarded hoping to benefit by generous deficiency payments? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. To what extent, if any, has approval been given to improve accommodation, meals and facilities at Commonwealth hostels, including the Hotel Kurrajong? Is it a fact that several members of Parliament have left hostels and sought alternative accommodation which offers better standards at no greater cost? Is it also a fact that tourists to Canberra are using the hostels to a lesser extent because of dissatisfaction with the standard of accommodation provided? 
 I congratulate the new senators who have made their maiden speeches. As do my other parliamentary colleagues, I believe that they will prove to be an asset to this chamber. I mention particularly Senators McAuIiffe, Primmer and Gietzelt. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy,  which seeks to add to the motion the following words:   but the Senate condemns the Budget because - 
it breaks the Prime Minister's pledge to Parliament on taking office to bring into effect for 1971-72 a' fundamental review of social services and of methods of adjusting them, 
it contains no proposals to balance the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, the States and local government and 
it produces no programme for high national objectives of social welfare, economic strength and national security.' 
The proposed expenditure on social welfare in the Budget is. $2,095m, which is $268m more than was provided last year. I believe that this sum will be completely inadequate. The average weekly earnings, according to the last quarterly figures, are $89 a week. Honourable senators opposite have tried to defend the Government by quoting figures to show that the pension rate is increasing in line with other Government expenditure. I have an analysis of figures which compares the proposed pension rate with the rate applying when this Government came into office in 1949. It is shown clearly that the percentages which all rates of social service payments represent of average weekly earnings have decreased during the period since 1949. In that year the single age pensioner rate represented 24 per cent of average weekly earnings. Today, including the increase granted in the Budget, the single age pensioner rate represents only 18.7 per cent of average weekly earnings - a reduction of nearly 6 per cent since 1949. Surely the Government does not regard that as an achievement. If anything, pension rates as percentages of average weekly earnings should be increasing if we are to eradicate these areas of poverty. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  promised that he would pay special attention to these areas of poverty. I think he referred to them as pockets of poverty. Looking through the Budget, and particularly the provisions for social welfare payments, it is obvious that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has completely ignored the pockets of poverty. I refer firstly to an area of poverty which no doubt has been neglected and will continue to be neglected until there is a change of government. I received a letter from an aged couple who live 14 miles from the General Post Office in Adelaide and who have been denied a pension for more than 12 months. The husband is 69 years of age and his wife is 74 years of age. The husband terminated his employment in a government department when he was 65 years of age. They have not yet been granted a pension by this Government. 
Shortly I will give the Senate the reason why their application has been refused, in the hope that the Department of Social Services will eradicate this anomaly that exists in our social services system. I have no doubt that this is not the only aged couple in this predicament. There are probably many others, particularly with the crisis in the rural industries, wilh no income coming from properties and with the Government placing false valuations on properties. The couple to whom I refer applied for a pension in February 1970. Their application was rejected on the ground, as it was claimed by the Department, that the house in which they were living and the small useless property adjoining it were valued at $46,000. That is a fictitious figure which cannot be supported by anybody - not even the land agents who have been trying to sell the property and have not been successful. Although I have taken this matter up with the Department, it still claims that this useless property is worth $46,000. 
-It goes on the Taxation Office's valuation. .This property is only 14 miles from the General Post Office in Adelaide. There is an ordinary house on the property and 40 acres of land. The land is useless because, through the mismanagement of this Government, there is not one rural industry that is viable. The only one that was showing some signs of viability was the wine making industry, and it now seems that the Government will do its very best to destroy that along with the wool, wheat, dairy, pear and other industries. 
The pleas of Government senators for the pear industry in Victoria, their support for the Government giving S3m to assist that industry and the other assistance measures that we have been asked to support indicate to me that there are not many rural industries in Australia that we can regard as viable. 
These people, on account of their age, would have no hope at all of working the property so that it would have some economic value. Even if they did have some hope of doing that, it would be useless because of the recent water restrictions that have been imposed in this area. Restrictions have been imposed on the sub-artesian water supplies in order to maintain the few market gardeners who are already in that industry. All the properties have a quota. This property has a quota of, I think, 3 million gallons of water a year, which is not enough to enable it to be worked economically as a market garden. There is no other available rural industry. It would be of no use to try to run sheep. It would be useless to try to grow wheat because these people have no quota. There is practically nothing on which they can rely for an income. They are now desperate. 
The husband came into my office with his wife and put his complaint to me. While he was there  he  showed me his book for the only bank account he possesses. The amount in  his  account is being reduced considerably week after week. He has no hope whatsoever of obtaining employment or any social service benefits. He cannot receive unemployment relief on account of his age. The Government maintains that this property is worth $46,000. The agents who have been trying to sell it say that  it is  worth only $34,000. It may not even be worth that. It has been advertised for auction on 3 occasions through  the  local Press,  a  country newspaper known as the 'Cronicle' and the Advertiser'. 
Yes. 
Not when there is land attached to it, I understand. This provision applies when the area of land attached to the house exceeds a certain limit. I do not know whether there is anything definite on this. I could not obtain from the Department any information on how much property or land a person has to have before he is precluded from receiving social service benefits. 
Many houses in the city of Adelaide would be worth far more than $46,000. Land values are much higher in other cities, such as Sydney and Melbourne, than in Adelaide. This is why I say that there is an anomaly. If this man were living in a house valued at $80,000 he could receive an age pension. No matter how high the valuation of a person's house is, it cannot debar him from receiving an age pension provided he has no other assets or income. This man has no income except the interest on the $1,300 that he had in the bank the last time I spoke to him. I think that amount would be a lot less by now. So everything has been done to try to assist this man and his wife. I even took this man to the Director-General of Social Services who agreed with me that the case was genuine. But he said: 'There is nothing that I can do because the property is valued at $46,000 by the Taxation Office and this means that it is above the allowable amount at which a person is entitled to receive a pension.' 
I hope that the Government does refer this matter to the Department of Social Services because no doubt exists that there must be many other similar cases in Australia of aged people who were able to make some sort of living on small properties. They may have been growing vegetables, fruit, following dairying pursuits or running a few sheep. At one time, a person could make a reasonable living out of 100 sheep or 150 sheep. Today, if one tried to do that, one would find that that number of sheep would put one into debt. This couple, and other couples who must be in a similar position, cannot receive any economic value from their properties. The worst part of their predicament is that they cannot even sell them. I believe that this couple would be prepared to refund any social service payments that they were granted after they had disposed of their property. But they should not be expected to do that. This case should be looked into. The situation should be remedied. No doubt a number of other people are in the same position. 
Another aspect of the Budget is child endowment. The proposed increase of 50c a week will provide some relief for families with more than 2 children but 1 believe that an anomaly that does exist in the Social Services Act, and which has been referred to today by  Senator Drury,  has been exposed. He asked a question in the Senate the other day to which he has not received an answer. I believe that he is quite correct when he says that the amount of child endowment received by a family with more than 2 children decreases when the eldest of those children reaches the age of 16 years. 
In Australia, 1,750,000 families receive child endowment payments. Of those families, 12,700 have more than 6 children. The anomaly which exists is that the child endowment payments received by a family with more than 2 children are reduced when the eldest child attains 16 years of age. 
I will endeavour to explain. The proposed increase of 50c in child endowment for the third and subsequent children, I believe, creates a worse anomaly as far as the income received from child endowment by a family with more than 2 children is concerned. With the proposed increase of 50c, the first born child in a family will attract a payment of 50c a week, the second child will be paid $1 a week and the third child will now receive $2 a week in child endowment. That is a total of $3.50 a week which is paid until the first child reaches 16 years of age. 
When the first child attains 16 years of age the parents of those 3 children are in this situation: The first child does not receive 50c a week but is paid $1.50 a week as a student's allowance if he continues bis education at school. The third child in the family becomes the second child for child endowment purposes. The payment in respect of that child is reduced from $2 a week to $1 a week. The second child becomes the first child for child endowment purposes and the payment in respect of that child is reduced from $1 a week to 50c a week. So, that family with only 3 children loses a total of $1 a week. 
I refer now to a case in South Australia. The parents of a family of 13 children wrote to me and drew this matter to my attention. They had written already to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and received a reply to the effect that there was nothing he could do about it or intended to do about it. The more children in a family, the greater the anomaly. If the Government decided that child endowment payments should continue until the child reached the age of 21, not a great deal more expenditure would be involved. As I mentioned earlier, only 12,700 families in Australia have 6 or more children. If child endowment payments were to continue after a child reached 16 years of age, and that child did not receive the student's allowance, the cost to the Government would not be very much especially when we recognise that an amount of $2,950m has been allocated for social welfare purposes. An increase of. 50c in the child endowment payable to each child after the first 2 children would not cost the Government a substantial amount of additional funds. 
 Three of the children in this family of 13 of which I have spoken are students receiving the student's allowance of $1.50 a week. This means that the total loss to this family when the eldest child for child endowment purposes reaches 16 years of age is $8.25 a week because that child loses his child endowment entitlement and receives a student's allowance. Special attention should be given to the needs of larger families. There are not a great number of them, and sometimes the parents have had no desire to have large families. 1 believe that the parents of most of the large families in Australia are in the lower income bracket. Surely these people could be given continuing assistance while they try to educate their children and to provide for them the same opportunities as other children are entitled to. I hope that the Government and the Minister for Social Services will pay some attention to this matter and remedy the anomaly that no doubt exists. It is one that is placing great hardship on the parents of larger families. 
In the Budget we find a contrast between what the Government provides to wealthy parents who can afford to send their children to private schools, and to other parents. Prior to this Budget, parents were allowed for each dependent child an education deduction of  $300  a year. This Budget proposes to increase that amount to  §400  a year. The only children of whom ( am aware who attend private schools and in respect of whom fees ranging between  S300  and  $400  a year are paid, are the children of wealthy  paren's.  I wish to read to the Senate what the Minister for  Educa-   tion in South Australia had to say when referring to the Commonwealth Budget increase in the taxation allowance for education. He stated: 
The Commonwealth Budget recently provided that the amount of tax deduction claimable for the education expenses of each dependent child would rise from $300 a year to $400. 
The following table sets out the tax reduction (on new tax rates) obtainable if the full S400 is claimed for one child for taxable incomes ranging from $2,000 to $20,000 a year. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators J incorporate in Hansard a table set out in the Press statement. 

<graphic href="049232197109093_50_2.jpg"></graphic>

The Press statement continues: 
The increase in the deduction from $300 to $400 provides therefore a maximum additional reduction in tax ranging from $20.50 at an income of $2,000 to $70 at an income of $20,000 or more. 
A close examination of the implications of these figures reveals that the assistance offered by the Commonwealth's education concessions in taxation is little short of scandalous. 
Only the wealthiest- independent schools charge fees of $400 a year or more. Only parents of high average income can meet them in the first place. 
If those on lower incomes spend less than $400 the tax- rebate is proportionately reduced. For example, if  a  man earning  a  taxable income of $3,000 per annum pays $100 per child per annum on education, the tax rebate is $23 as against  a  possible maximum of $280 for '  a  taxpayer who could afford to spend $400. 
Moreover, if parents at lower income levels do make a sacrificial effort to  meet high fees, they do not receive the same tax benefit (compare $82 with $280 rebate, on the same $400). 
If the average taxable income of parents at  a  high fee school is $10,000 the effect of the increase in the allowable education deduction is an increase in rebate of $53. This means that such a school could raise fees by $53 per annum without any extra cost to parents. 
The effect is that high fee schools can readily increase their fees without discommoding high income parents. This consequence is strengthened by rising salary levels. Thus the higher the average income of parents, the greater the ability of the school to raise its fees in order to meet rising costs. 
Apparently this is the kernel of the Commonwealth Government's approach to education. No extra help is given to the poorer independent schools whose parents have difficulty in coping with any extra fees and where fees are below the previous limit of $300 (and in many cases below $100 or even $50). No help is given to the State schools which cater for the vast majority of Australia's children, and where parents could not claim expenses above $50 in the vast majority of cases. This is how the Commonwealth Government orients its Budget towards the claims of children. 
This is a policy of deliberate discrimination directed solely at perpetuating a system in which the best education standards remain the prerogative of the wealthy few. 
I wish to refer to another aspect of the Budget which has been avoided by most honourable senators opposite who have spoken in this debate. I refer to the wool subsidy, or what I believe are called wool deficiency payments. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  stated in his Budget Speech: 
The Government has decided that producers of wool should be given additional' assistance this year, and will introduce a one-year scheme of deficiency payments in respect of the 1971-72 wool clip. Deficiency payments will be  a  percentage of market realisations, calculated from time to time so as to ensure that, on average, growers receive for shorn wool - other than specified inferior types accounting for about 10 per cent of shorn wool - a return corresponding to a price for the whole clip of 36 cents  a  pound greasy. Under this method individual growers will retain an incentive to obtain the best possible price for their wool. The necessary legislation will be introduced by the Minister for Primary Industry as soon as practicable. 
The present crisis in the wool industry is the responsibility of the. Government. Before it came into office in  1949  wool  prices were rising, under a Labor Government, at such a rate that they reached an all time record Australian average of 122c per lb. 
I could, but I have only 5 minutes left for my speech and it would take longer than that. 1 would rather spend the time telling  Senator Webster  about how the Government has destroyed the wool industry. While prices were increasing at an amazing rate at the wool sales, the Opposition tried desperately to get wool growers to accept a wool stabilisation scheme. The Government would not have a bar of it and neither would the wool growers. The result was that the buyers of our wool turned elsewhere. It must not be forgotten that we export 95 per cent of our wool clip and consume domestically only 5 per cent. It is not easy to dispose of 95 per cent of a wool clip totalling almost 2,000 million lb annually. When buyers saw the prices reaching exorbitant levels in 1950-51, as 1 have said, the obvious thing for them to do was to look for an alternative. A similar thing happens when a housewife finds that some vegetables are too dear. She will look for a substitute. In exactly the same way the wool buyers looked for a substitute, and found a very effective one. 
If the Government does not do something about the wool industry before very long, the industry will be facing extinction. I have some very reliable figures prepared by a professor at the University of Sydney. They relate to the production of synthetics and are included in an article written by the professor. He wrote that world wide synthetic fibre production capacity rose from 6,318 million lb a year in 1967 to 11,308 million lb in 1969. Compared with natural wools, with world production at a static 3,400 million lb a year, this must cause an inevitable fall in natural wool prices. The professor points out that the replacement of agricultural raw materials by synthetics and substitutes is no new phenomenon. Over the past 100 years 16 such substances have been replaced or are being replaced, always by a cheaper product. World non-cellulosic synthetic fibre production is now nearly 4 times that of natural wool. To grow 1 lb of clean wool annually requires on an average several times the capital investment to manufacture 1 lb annually of clean synthetic fibre. 
The professor refers in his article to the fact that the capital outlaid in the wool industry amounts to nearly $9,000m taking into account land, investments, machinery, and so on. He estimates that for every $10 outlaid on a rural property the return is 1 lb of wool. In the synthetics field every $1 outlaid returns 1 lb of synthetic fibre. It is therefore clear why importers of our wool have looked for a substitute. However, I believe that a recovery can be effected for the industry. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
General Business Taking Precedence of Government Business After 8 p.m. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry read in an Adelaide newspaper of last Friday a warning by the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board that there is a tremendous threat to animal meat production from a synthetic substitute? Does the Minister agree that if the dangerously high beef prices continue, coupled with a deficiency of production, we are inviting competition from synthetics? In order to avoid a repetition of the disastrous effect which synthetics have had on the wool industry, will the Minister ask the Prime Minister to arrange a conference with the States to consider the advisability of introducing legislation prohibiting the sale of synthetic meat for human consumption? 
 When the debate was adjourned last Thursday I was making reference to the plight of the wool industry and offering some suggestions that I believe could assist the industry. Before continuing along those lines I would like to reply to some of the allegations that have been made in this chamber and outside of it regarding the cost-price squeeze that is so often spoken of. Attacks have been made on the trade union movement regarding the high wages sought by workers in the industry. The increased costs incurred by the industry have been related to these wage demands. I would like to enlighten the Senate on the high wages referred to by honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber as being paid in the pastoral industry. 
The wool industry in Australia comes under a federal pastoral industry award in every State except Queensland; which has a State award. There is a provision in that federal award for station employees, who are referred to in it as station hands. Only recently these station hands were granted a wage increase which brought their weekly earnings to $46.40 a week. The employer - that is, the wool grower - is allowed to deduct from this amount of $46.40 a week the sum of $10.18 for board and lodging, leaving the employee $36.22 a week. This industry is one of the very few industries that are still working on a 44-hour week basis. Repeated efforts by the Australian Workers Union through the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have not yet succeeded in reducing these working hours. Not only does a station hand have to work 44 hours a week before he can claim overtime but also if he works in excess of 44 hours in a week - regardless of whether it is 54 hours or 64 hours - and he does not claim that overtime within 3 weeks of working it he loses all entitlement he has to it. In otherwords, any overtime which is not paid within 3 weeks is forfeited and the wool grower has the benefit of the services of those employees for nothing. ft is not the wages that are paid in the rural industry that has caused the present crisis; it is, I believe, the attitude of the Government in not seeking alternative markets. The attitude adopted by the Government over the years, which has resulted in substantial losses in our wheat exports, has been one of the main reasons why. we have lost markets for our wool in Socialist countries. The attitude of the Government is not to import anything from Socialist countries. Because of this attitude these countries have not been in a position to buy our wool. For instance, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, which is a country in the coldest part of the world and which has a population of 241 million, would buy much more of our wool if we bought something from it in return, but we have never done so. We refuse to do so. We have adopted this attitude despite the fact that we have to pay far higher prices elsewhere for some commodities. For instance, we pay for the petroleum products that we import far in excess of what we would have to pay if we obtained them from the Soviet Union, but we are not allowed to import anything from that country because the Australian Government disagrees with the ideology of the Soviet Union. 
The wool industry has suffered to the extent that it is facing the worst crisis that it has faced over the last 20 years. A lot has been written and submitted about the wool industry. All sorts of reasons have been given as to why the industry has reached its present state. No worthwhile solutions have been put up by the Government to overcome this situation, other than to give a deficiency payment which is only a temporary arrangement and which will benefit only the very wealthy wool growers. Wool growers such as the Falkiners who have estates running 65,000 to 70.000 sheep will benefit from these deficiency payments. The McBrides, the McTaggarts, the Macfarlanes and  all  of these big  wool growers who have huge properties and run enormous numbers of sheep will benefit considerably from these deficiency payments for which provision has been made in the Budget. 
I would like to refer to an article that was written by a very eminent economist in Melbourne in which he makes reference to a reform of the wool industry. I believe that he gives some hope when he suggests that the Government should note that there are other means of disposing of our wool than to our regular customers. I believe that because countries are buying in a cartel they are deliberately keeping the price of wool down. But, of course, while our wool is sold under an auction system they will continue to be successful in keeping the price of wool down to an amount which is well below production costs. In his article this Melbourne economist states: 
The price of wool is determined by the interaction of supply and demand. Low wool prices may be due to: 
An excess supply of wool relative to the demand for wool, or similarly, a lack of demand relative to supply; or 
A marketing system, which contains imperfections, such that the price of wool is not a true reflection of the stale of demand and supply. 
In the long term, wool's future can be sound only if demand and supply are kept at a level which will result in an adequate price. 
In managing the wool industry, first priority must be given to measures which will facilitate a continually expanding demand for wool relative to movements in the supply of wool. 
Institutional factors may be a major element in preventing an expansion in the demand for wool. They prevent potential demand from developing into effective demand. 
Institutional factors may represent a greater threat to wool prices than the relative price of synthetics. Such influences make it possible to sell an identical product at different price levels. Even 
If  wool and synthetics were perfect substitutes they could still be sold at different prices. 
One of the major problems in managing the wool industry is to identify and exploit institutional factors which will encourage wool consumption relative to other fibres. 
The wool industry must look to expanding market outlets to ensure its future. New and growing markets must be developed. 
The level of demand for wool appears- to be subject to two main factors. 
The climatic factor: The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has indicated the importance of climatic conditions as a major factor stimulating Japanese demand for wool. 
The level of economic development  in  market outlets: FAO reports that per capita consumption of wool in the developed countries declined between 1961 and 1969, and that it rose  in  the developing and centrally planned economies. Wool consumption is low in the economies of impoverished countries, as clothing is based on the cheaptest of fibres, traditionally cotton. 
Wool consumption also appears to stagnate, relative to the consumption of other fibres, as societies become affluent. Warm clothing substitutes such as heating, good housing, air conditioning and a greater use of private transport reduce the need for wool. As incomes rise beyond a certain level, a lower proportion of income is devoted to clothing so the demand for textiles does not maintain pace with the level of economic growth. 
Affluent societies also have the resources to channel into synthetic fibre production. Resource scarcity in less developed regions results in a greater proportion of resources being channelled into heavy industry at the expense of consumer goods production. 
The potential growth markets for wool are liable to lie in cold climatic regions with semi-developed economices. Such market outlets lie almost uniquely within the Communist/Socialist Bloc. 
 Effective buying activity by the Communist Bloc in western markets is hampered almost without exception, by a shortage of convertible currency. This shortage occurs due to their inability to export to the west. As a result, foreign purchases are based on a rationing procedure giving priority to most urgent requirements. Services should be considered to assist the Communist Bloc in purchasing more wool by: 
Making it easier for these areas to export to Australia if they purchase more wool. 
Offering terms to wool purchasers such that the burden on foreign exchange will be minimised. 
Implementing such measures would make Australia a relatively favourable area from which to purchase wool and wool would thus become a favoured fibre to import. 
Economic planning in the USSR indicates the need for greater supplies of wool in this region. Currently merino type wools are priced at $2.26 per lb and crossbred wools at 75c per lb. Russian wool production is planned to inceased from 372,000 tons in 1967 to 1,100,000 in 1980. However there are indicates that Russian wool production will not reach this target. Should the wool production target not be met, it is likely that local synthetic production will bc further encouraged due to the currency problems associated with importing large quantities of wool. 
The article goes on to give proposals to which some consideration could be given. I believe that these proposals have some  merit and that the Government should look into them. We should not wait until some other country has won the markets, as happened when Canada got a big slice of wheat sales to China.- 1 believe that this Government should follow the example set  by the Australian Labor Party when lt sent a delegation to China. I am very confident, although the Government is not, that wheat sales will result from that delegation's visit to China. Nobody would expect that we will get wheat sales this year because China has already purchased its requirements for the current year. It has purchased ample supplies from Canada, which adopted a different attitude to that of Australia so far as the recognition of China is concerned. 
Before I conclude I would like to make some reference to the wine industry because I believe that wine growers in Australia will be exceedingly disappointed that this Government has not removed the iniquitous wine tax of 50c a gallon that was imposed by last year's Budget. This tax was felt particularly in South Australia where 70 per cent of Australia's total production of beverage wine is grown and produced. Surplus crops are of vital concern to every person in the wine industry, particularly the thousands of growers who have to rely on wineries to process their products. Many representations were made when the Budget introducing this 50c excise on wine was brought down. Questions were asked in this chamber about this measure, and even Government supporters spoke during the Budget debate on the effect that this excise would have on the industry. Although some Government supporters were very vocal in their opposition to the excise duty, when it came to the critical vote on whether the excise would be imposed, unfortunately they supported the' measure. I believe that unless this tax is removed in the near future we could find that one of the few viable rural industries in the Commonwealth could be facing a situation similar to that of other rural industries. 
The industry in South Australia which, as I mentioned previously, produces about 70 per cent of our beverage wines has been viable for the last 5 or 6 years only. Prior to 1965 wine grape growers could not dispose of their surplus crop. It was only through the efforts of the State Labor Government at that time, with the introduction of a price fixing scheme, that some viability has been given to the growers of wine grapes in South Australia. If honourable senators consider the present average price of about $65 a ton for wine grapes in Australia and bear in mind that 1 ton of grapes produces about 140 gallons of wine they will realise that the Government receives $70 from each ton of grapes by way of excise and the grower receives an average of $65 a ton. 
Prior to the imposition of this excise, wholesale wine sales in Australia were increasing at a fairly substantial rate. In 1966 there was a 10.79 per cent increase in wholesale wine sales, in 1967 there was a 14.42 per cent increase, in 1968 a 12.93 per cent increase, in  1969  an 11.16 per cent increase and in 1970 a 10.65 per cent increase. However, since the imposition of the excise duty on wine-, wholesale sales have been reduced drastically, particularly over the last two quarters. Figures published in the 'Advertiser' of 10th August 1971 showed that the industry suffered a sales loss of 8.8 per cent for the quarter ended 31st March 1971. This downward trend accelerated to a 14.2 per cent or 2.4 million gallons reduction at the end of the June quarter. If these drastic reductions are added to the average growth rate of 12 per cent over the preceding 5 years, therehas been a total loss of about 21 per cent for the March quarter and 26 per cent for. the June quarter, representing approximately 9 million gallons of wine. This disastrous loss can only be attributed to the vicious wine tax imposed in the 1970-71 Budget. 
For  the 1970 vintage the Australian wine industry processed -350,000 tons of grapes. Unfortunately, because of adverse' seasonal conditions the vintage for 1971 saw an intake of only 280,000 tons; but it is expected that the forthcoming vintage could well see the availability of 350,000 tons. The position in the industry will be further aggravated when the 20,000 acres of vines recently planted come into bearing. When in full production these areas could produce a further 15 million gallons of wine yearly. It is expected that when the recent plantings are in full production the total wine production in Australia will reach approximately 75 million gallons a year. There is every indication that unless the wine excise is removed immediately there will be huge surpluses of wine and. thousands of tons of grapes will be left' on the vines to rot. The irresponsibility of the Government in imposing an excise duty before the industry had fully recovered from a recession is indicative of the Government's complete disregard for this important industry. Practically all other primary industries receive financial support from the Government and it is regrettable that the only primary industry which is self-supporting has been singled out and subjected to a tax which already had caused great concern to growers of wine grapes and the wineries. 
I should like to correct a remark that was made during the debate on the Budget last Thursday during your address to the Senate,  Mr Acting- Deputy President (Senator Laucke).  First I should like to commend you for your speech on the wine industry. We know that you have a vast knowledge of this industry, living as you do in one of the most affluent wine making areas of Austrafia, the Barossa Valley. During your remarks,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you cited figures which showed the per capita consumption of wine in other wine producing countries. You mentioned Italy, France, the Argentine, Spain and Germany. Then there was an interjection by  Senator Little  who asked: 'How much are the people allowed to drink in Russia?' You replied that on the list of 45 countries there was- no figure for the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or the Democratic Republic of East Germany Later in the debate you sought leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the consumption of wine by various countries. In that table in fifth position is the USSR which is shown . as having a consumption of 330 million gallons of wine. I know that you did not intend deliberately to mislead the Senate in this regard and that your remark was probably prompted by the interjection by  Senator Little.  I should like also to enlighten  Senator Little  in this regard. The honourable senator asked what I regard as a ridiculous question when he asked how much wine people were allowed to drink in Russia. He will know now that in Russia they are allowed to drink and do drink 330 million gallons a year, whereas the people of Australia are allowed to drink only 17,160,000 gallons a year. 
I am aware of that and that is why I thought the honourable senator's question was so ridiculous, especially when it is borne in mind the people of Russia drink other types of liquor, the same as people in other countries drink a different type of liquor. Nevertheless, I believe that the reply that you gave,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  should be corrected. People who read Hansard should not be of the opinion that the people of Russia are kept down to such an extent that they drink only what they are allowed to drink and are told to drink. The true picture is that they drink considerably more in that country than is consumed in Australia. The other country to which you referred as not appearing in the schedule was the Democratic Republic of East Germany. Its total consumption of wine is 14,300,000 gallons a year. 1 believe that the Government, by its failure to remove the excise of 50c a gallon on wine, has placed an imposition on an industry which has taken many years to recover from years of depression. Particularly is this so in South Australia where many grape growers are returned soldiers from not only the First World War- but also the Second World War. They have been struggling for many years and have never seen in the wine or grape growing industry a buoyancy such as has been enjoyed in the wool industry. With record prices for wool, wool growers were able to drive about in Jaguar cars and enjoy all the luxuries available at the time, but the grape growers throughout Australia have never been able to enjoy that luxury. 
I hope that the Government will take heed of not only what honourable senators on this side of the chamber have said but also what you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  said during your contribution to the debate last Thursday. I believe that  Senator Jessop  also made some reference to the impost of the excise on the wine industry. I believe that the figures which have been produced in the debate in the Senate are factual. I have been very disappointed to hear the Minister's continued repetition that the Government is keeping a close watch on this industry and that it will take action if necessary. I believe that the time is long overdue when action is necessary, and that unless action is taken the industry will meet the same fate as has been suffered by other rural industries. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry read a report in today's Australian' that the Australia to Europe Shipping Conference may exert pressure for a review of freight rates owing to loss of wool cargo since the Australian Wool Commission has been buying huge quantities of wool and stockpiling it? Will the Minister assure the Senate that any attempt by the Conference to increase wool freights will be strenuously opposed by the Government to ensure that the agreement negotiated by the wool industry last July is adhered to? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that private wool buyers operating in Western Australia are buying wool from growers at prices which are much lower than the auction reserve prices set by the Australian Wool Commission? Are these sales partly responsible for the depressed state of the Australian wool market? If so, does the Minister regard curtailment of private wool sales as being necessary? 
 Is the 
Minister representing the Minister for the Interior aware of an acute shortage of housing throughout the Northern Territory and that on current indications the waiting times for accommodation will increase, particularly in Darwin? Does the Minister regard suitable housing with a minimum waiting time as necessary to ensure that the development growth of the Northern Territory is not impeded? Can the people in the Northern Territory expect any Government assistance that will alleviate the present housing situation? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior: Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Government subsidy on homes built in the Northern Territory by the Northern Territory Housing Commission has not been increased since 1962? Is the Housing Commission in Darwin now required to purchase land and meet costs of servicing building sites which amount to approximately $3,000 for each home? If the answers are in the affirmative, will the Minister recommend a substantial increase in the Commonwealth Government subsidy to ensure that rents on these homes are maintained at a reasonable level? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Has the Minister been made aware of a transport study that was carried out by the Australian Wool Board? If, so, does he regard one of the major conclusions of that study, namely, that restrictive State regulations have significantly increased the cost of and reduced the flexibility of moving wool from the farm to the wool store, as a burden on the industry? Will the Minister initiate consultation with the States for the purpose of formulating uniform transport regulations similar to those which already exist in South Australia where the transport of wool is effectively free? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister read the annual report of the 
Australian Wine Board which states that Australia will lose more than 90 per cent of its century old United Kingdom wine trade when Britain joins the Common Market next year? As this represents an export loss in excess of 400,000 gallons of wine, in addition to the loss of the 10 per cent growth rate since excise duty payments were imposed last year, will the Minister recommend to the Minister for Customs and Excise that the excise duty be removed to avoid further serious economic problems for wine grape growers and wine makers? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Has there been any noticeable increase in applications for health insurance from families on low incomes and eligible migrants since the investigations by the 
Department of Health on publicity proposals were initiated some 3 months ago? Will the Minister give an assurance that the simplified revised procedures for applications, operative from 1st November 1971, will be distributed to all agencies including Darwin and that trade union organisations are supplied with details for publication in their journals to encourage low income families to avail themselves of the benefits of the scheme? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the deficiency rates calculated by the Australian Wool Commission for each auction week since 2nd July is an average of 21 per cent less than the amount of 36c per lb determined by the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Act? Does this indicate that 7.5c per lb will be paid to all wool growers on all eligible wool sold since 2nd July? Can the Minister give an assessment of the total cost of deficiency payments to wool growers if the current wool prices continue for the remainder of the 12-month period? 
I ask  a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the brochure explaining the working of wool deficiency payments been distributed to wool growers as was promised by the Acting Minister for Primary Industry in a Press statement dated 15th November 1971? If so, when will the brochure be available to honourable senators? 
Does the Minister representing the Minister foi Education and Science consider that more research is needed into education generally as well as into some aspects of the national survey? Will he recommend an increased Commonwealth grant to the Australian Council for Educational Research to match the increased funds recently made available to that Council by the States? 
Has the Attorney-General been supplied with the details of the material relating to the Kangaroo Island dispute he requested from  Senator Young  on Tuesday? If so. does the material reveal that a similar dispute on Kangaroo Island last year was settled to the satisfaction of the parties concerned by the  Deputy  Industrial Registrar while presiding over a board of reference? 
My question which is directed to the AttorneyGeneral relates to questions asked in this place on Tuesday by  Senator Young  and  Senator Bishop.  The questions appear in the Senate Hansard at page 2150 under the headings 'Wool Growers on Kangaroo Island' and 'Trade Unions', Is the AttorneyGeneral now aware, following his investigation, that a wool grower on Kang;voc Island who is involved in an industrial dispute over employing non-unionists is respondent to the Federal pastoral industry award? Is the Attorney-General also aware that the award provides that disputes of this nature can be referred' to a board of reference for determination by the  Deputy  Industrial Registrar? Does the Minister consider that precipitate civil action by wool growers against union officials, ignoring the remedies available under the award, is a dangerous procedure, that it is contrary to the policy advocated by the Government, and that it could even provoke an extension of the dispute? 

 Senator GREENWOODS was not aware that the wool grower concerned was a respondent to an award, nor was I aware of the terms of the award, but I do not doubt that what the honourable senator says is the position. The point is that the award does not permit a union to deny facilities to any person by requiring, through union solidarity, the denial of all services. That is the classic boycott and it represents what I would categorise as being a blatant misuse of industrial power. Whether or not a person may refer a matter under the arbitration processes is to me immaterial if a union acts improperly and unlawfully, as I believe it does if it acts in the way which 1 have indicated. It. is a curious concept to suggest that that should occur. I do not have any details of the matter but I understand that some civil process has been instituted. As I indicated on Tuesday, there are civil remedies available to people affected in the way in which these people have been affected by union action. 
-I support the amendments foreshadowed by  Senator Drury.  Before giving my reasons for supporting the amendments to be moved to the Bills which are before the Senate, 1 shall refer briefly to the remarks made by  Senator Webster.  He congratulated the Government on giving the growers in the dried vine fruits industry an oportunity to vote on this stabilisation scheme. He did not advise the Senate that the growers had no alternative. They had either to accept the proposals outlined by the Government, which were favourable to the Government, or receive nothing at all. 
The growers could only say no and that would have meant that the future of the industry, with the loss of export markets, would have been very doubtful.  Senator Webster  also mentioned cost. This is a problem which is often mentioned on the Government side of the Senate, particularly with regard to rural industry.  Senator Webster  did not mention that the wage structure in the dried fruits industry is comparable to that in the pastoral industry. The employees in this industry are still on the minimum wage. So, the cost of labour should not be a burden on the industry. If there are other costs, that must be the fault of the Government. 
Over many years the industry has been in financial distress. It was probably only between the years 1963 and 1969, while the International Sultana (Raisin) Agreement was in existence, that there was any stability in the dried vine fruits industry. Signatories to that Agreement were Australia, Greece and Turkey. It must be remembered that Greece is a very big producer of dried vine fruits. I think our production of currants is about 8,000 tons a year, whereas Greece produces in the vicinity of 90,000 tons a year. Australia has faced competition over the years. This position will be further aggravated when the United Kingdom joins the European Economic Community; we will not have the export opportunities to the United Kingdom which we have enjoyed over the past few years. The United Kingdomhas been a very big importer of Australian dried vine fruits. We will have to look elsewhere for markets; otherwise there will be huge surpluses in the River Murray area. 
I understand that about 90 per cent of the 5.000 growers in Australia producing dried vine fruits are on settlements in the River Murray irrigation areas from Waikerie, Cadell, Barmera, Berri, Loxton and Renmark in South Australia to the other dried vine fruits producing towns of Mildura, Merebin and Red Cliffs in Victoria. Most of these settlements were occupied by returned soldiers after the First World War. They were settled on probably the most arid, desolate country in Australia. This country will not grow even saltbush or bluebush, so arid is it. However, with irrigation from the River Murray, these settlements were established. Of course, most of them were far too small. Although in 1 9 1 8 or 1 9 1 9 a property of 15 to 20 acres may have been viable, that certainly is not a viable proposition in 1971. Prices have increased considerably and the cost of production has increased. But the return to the grower has not increased at the same rate as have costs. 
I refer to the annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board for the year 1970-71. In this report the economic condition of the dried fruits industry is set out. There is a summary of the problems confronting the industry. Rather than delay the Senate, I seek leave to incorporate a section of the report in Hansard. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide financial assistance to the State of South Australia to enable that State to make loans to two fruit preserving companies, namely, Jon Preserving Cooperative Ltd and Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd. This is a fairly simple Bill. There is only one contentious clause and I shall refer to it briefly later. Clause 4 in sub-clause (2.) provides that $390,000 will be made available to Jon Preserving Co-operative Ltd, and the other cannery operated by Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd will receive an amount of $900,000. As a similar amount is to be provided by the State of South Australia it will mean that Jon Preserving Co-operative Ltd will receive an amount of $780,000 whereas the Riverland cannery will receive an amount of $1,800,000. This no doubt will inject the necessary finance into these canneries that have for the last 2 years been confronted with a great amount of financial responsibility. 
The Riverland cannery commenced operating in 1959 and since then it has been a means by which the 800 growers in the Berri area have disposed of their fruit, the main ones being of course pears, apricots and peaches. If this cannery could not continue to operate it would mean that there would be no outlet whatsoever for the fruits that are being grown for canning purposes in the River Murray irrigation areas. The cannery provides a considerable amount of employment in these areas, thus supporting our policy of decentralisation. Employment is created in areas where it is often difficult, particularly for girls, to find employment. In the past we have relied mostly on the United Kingdom as a market for our exports of canned fruits but that avenue of export probably will be in doubt in the near future. We have relied on the United Kingdom to take 65 per cent of our exports of canned fruit, but in future it will be necessary to find new markets. 
The financial position of the canneries has deteriorated over the last 2 years mainly 'due to machinery that has become outdated. It has been necessary to introduce modern machinery. For example, the Riverland cannery at Berri in 1969 had reserves of $405,000. Its profit and loss account showed an unappropriated balance of $431,000 on the debit side, not on the credit side. Issued capital was $751,000, but the total of the company's shareholders funds was only $725,000. The only contentious clause in the Bill is clause 5. It is in respect of this clause that I shall later move the amendment that has been circulated to honourable senators. Clause 5 (1.) of the Bill states: 
Payment of an amount payable to the State under this Act is subject to such conditions, if any, as the Minister, by instrument in writing, determines. 
I do not want to go into what was said by  Senator Cavanagh  but once again the Minister is being given the right to determine conditions on which amounts shall be paid to the States. Clause 5 (2.) of the Bill states: 
The conditions that may be determined by the Minister under the last preceding sub-section may include a condition as to repayment of the whole or part of the amount. 
Therefore the Minister will be given the right to determine how the amount shall be paid to the State and when it shall be repaid. He also can decide what interest rate shall be applied. We do not think these matters should be left in the hands of the Minister. There should be some provision in the Bill setting out the details of the agreement, the terms of the payment and how the repayment is to be made. 
In conclusion, I should like to refer to similar legislation passed by the Senate last year involving an amount of $4.2m which was made available to the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd. That Bill contained provisions setting out the amount, the repayments and the rate of interest. I do not agree with an interest rate of 7 per cent being imposed on an industry that is struggling for survival. I believe that this Bill should contain some reference to the interest rate which should be included in an agreement. I formally move: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that it should be supplied with a schedule of the agreement between the State of South Australia and the Commonwealth with conditions relating to the approval by the Parliament and provisions relating to the amounts payable to the Slate, the rate of interest, and repayment conditions by the State'. 
Is  the 
Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service aware of reports that migrants in the Northern Territory are paying up to $190 for jobs at the Nabalco bauxite mining township on the Gove Peninsula? Is it a fact that investigations made by a prominent union official in Darwin have revealed that both the Department of the Interior's Welfare Branch and the Commonwealth employment section of the Department of Labour and National Service are implicated in the racket? Can the Minister indicate whether an investigation will be made into the allegations and a report of the findings made available to the Senate? 
I ask  the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it a fact that the staff of the China section of the Department of Foreign Affairs has dropped from 5 to 2 over the last 2 months? In view of the importance of improving our relations with China if we are to regain the loss of exports, particularly of wheat, does the Minister regard the situation as being critical? What action does the Minister intend taking to ensure that the staff of the Department's China section is restored to at least its previous strength? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether his attention has been drawn to an article in the Melbourne 'Age' stating that the retail price of Australian  wines  may rise by up to 10 per cent. Does he concede that a further increase in prices of wine could have a disastrous effect on sales similar to that which occurred after the imposition of a 50c a gallon excise in 1970? Will he recommend the lifting of the excise, which would obviate the necessity for the proposed increase in wine prices and which would assist in restoring the industry to its pre-excise duty prosperity? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is more research needed into education generally, as well as into some aspects of the national survey on educational needs. 
Will the Minister recommend an increase in the Commonwealth grant to the Australian Council for Educational Research to match the increase in funds recently made available to the Council by the States. 
Sena'or WRIGHT - The Minister for Education and Science has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth Government, is fully aware of the importance of educational research. In addition to its annual grunt to the Australian Council for Educational Research and its support for education research through such programmes as the Australian Science Education Project, the tertiary education entrance project and the Australian Research Grants Committee, the Commonwealth Government is stimulating very significant work under the programme of the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education, which it established in 1970. 
The Commonwealth agreed to increase its general grant to the Australian Council for Educational Research from $50,000 to $70,000 in the financial year 1971-72 to match a similar increase by the States. 
Is the 
Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry able to give any indication as to when Professor Grant's report on the independent inquiry he is conducting for the Government into the. facts of the wine industry, including sales before and after the imposition of the wine excise, will be available? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable The  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned 56 citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As similar petitions have already been presented by other honourable senators I do not propose that the petition be read. 
Does the Minister for Health support the concept that general practitioners who are charging the common fee and are allowing discounts for cash for home and surgery visits and therefore are reducing the amount payable by the patient after medical benefits have been refunded should be encouraged? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of reports that migrants in the Northern Territory are paying up to $190 for jobs at the Nabalco bauxite township on the Gove peninsula. 
Have investigations by a prominent trades union official in Darwin revealed that both the Department of the Interior Welfare Branch and the Commonwealth Employment Service are implicated in this matter. 
Will an investigation be made into the allegations and a report be made to Parliament. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Has the Department of Civil Aviation extended the time interval between major airframe overhauls on the DC9 aircraft by 12i per cent? Will this mean, as claimed by  Sir Reginald  Ansett, a saving in servicing costs of $2m a year. Does Trans-Australia Airlines intend to decrease correspondingly the frequency of its airframe maintenance? If so, can this be expected similarly to save that airline $2m a year? 
Has  the Minister for Health read in today's Press that an eminent scientist has stated that cigarette smoking as practised in Australia is responsible for between 95 and 98 per cent of primary lung cancer? As Australian cigarette consumption per capita has nearly doubled in the last IS years, will the Minister recommend a control of cigarette promotion by making it compulsory for all cigarette packets to carry a warning label and record of the tar and nicotine content? 
I did see part of the statement to which the honourable senator refers. Without necessarily agreeing with the totality of the judgment made, I should say that this is a world health problem. I believe it is accepted the world over, by the World Health Organisation and by people in the hierarchy of medicine, that there is a distinct causal link between lung cancer and cigarette smoking. The percentage of lung cancer cases attributed to cigarette smoking is a matter which could be debated. It is difficult to resolve this question because medical opinion varies in relation to the degree of this link. Recently I saw a movie in which some American professors of medicine said that the link did nol exist, but I think general world belief is that there is a link. 
That brings me to the second part of the honourable senator's question. As honourable senators know, certain States of the Commonwealth have passed legislation to require health warning labels on cigarette packets. Victoria recently passed a Bill for this purpose and I understand that it will come into effect on 1st January next year. South Australia has passed legislation which has not been gazetted because it has not received the Royal assent. I believe the Victorian legislation was passed on the understanding that when a certain number of the other States passed like legislation, that State would then give effect to its legislation. I am led to believe also from information provided to me that other States are currently examining this question, particularly as it relates to the labelling of cigarette packets. 
The Commonwealth is concerned with the position in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Under our Constitution, to the extent that this matter involves the States it is in the hands of the sovereign States. The Commonwealth's attitude has been that if the States passed legislation the Commonwealth would come into line with it. The fact is that the matter is currently under examination at the Commonwealth level. The legislation in Victoria sets down certain requirements. If there is to be labelling of cigarettes in Australia it would be most desirable that it be uniform. Let us face it: This is an Australian industry and there would have to be one form of labelling; otherwise there would be one system in Victoria, another in Tasmania, another in South Australia and there could be a different one in New South Wales if an executive decision in this respect is taken. I have the matter under examination currently. The Government also at this time has under examination the implications of the recent decisions taken in States as they affect the Commonwealth. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. Is the Minister aware that officers of the Department of Social Services in Adelaide have been inundated with inquiries following newspaper advertisements advising that the upper income and property limits under the means test have been raised? Is it a fact that the staff of the Department are embarrassed and indignant because they have not been supplied with complete details of the new means test and are unable to give the information required? Will the Minister recommend that all officers of the Department and its agencies and members of Parliament be supplied with the necessary information to assist them in helping people- 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is the Minister aware that an unemployed station hand with 5 children receives $47.50 a week from Commonwealth unemployment benefits whereas a station hand working 44 hours a week, under the court prescribed conditions of the Federal pastoral award, receives only $46.40 a week? Does he agree that it is not in the public inerest that this ridiculous situation should continue? Will he endeavour to persuade the Government to intervene in support of another application by the Australian Workers Union to rectify this anomalous situation? 
I join my colleagues on this side of the chamber in opposing the motion for the second reading of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. It is strange to note that each year prior to an election the Government introduces a Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. This was done in  1970  in the autumn session of the Parliament and the Bill was rushed through this chamber in the early hours of the morning. As a matter of fact we sat all night to deal with that Bill. That was an election year. We find again this year that prior to a general election we are debating another Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. 
In his opening remarks in his second reading speech the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  stated that this Bill contains the most significant amendments of the Act since 1947'. I have perused the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act over the years and I want to point out that in 1956 there were no fewer than 160 amendments to it. So one does not have to read very much of the Minister's second reading speech before finding something that is false. The Minister went on to state: 
This Bill is being brought down when our system of conciliation and arbitration has been undergoing severe strain . . . 
That definitely is an understatement. Over the last few years the emphasis has been placed more on arbitration than was the case previously. This was never the intention of the founders of this Act. This legislation has been used very effectively by the Government and employer organisations to keep wages at a minimum. When use of the arbitration system does result in the granting of a little more than what is regarded as the minimum, this Government sees fit to tighten the legislation further so that more sanctions will be placed on unions if they do not abide by decisions handed down by the court. 
The Minister referred in his second reading speech to a number of salient features of the Bill but I propose to refer to only 2 or 3 of them. There are only 5 or 6 altogether in this Bill which is so important that it has to be rushed through on the eve of an election. In fact there are only 3 or 4 issues that are regarded as very important. The second one is a strengthening of the sanctions provisions of the Act, including a review of all penalties provided in it. At page 47 of the Bill there is a schedule which contains a list of the penalties that are to apply, mainly, to employees and members of unions which the courts decide are in breach of sections of the Act. Some of these penalties have been increased by up to 500 per cent. The monetary penalty for one offence has not only increased by 500 per cent; it will carry a term of imprisonment for 6 months. This is one of the salient points in the features of the Bill referred to by the Minister. The Government intends to increase the penalties that can be imposed for offences against various sections of the Act. 
I want to reiterate what probably has been said by other senators about the attitude of the Australian Council of Trade Unions towards penalties. I know that honourable senators on the Government side are well aware of this but if we keep repeating it they may learn something. We do not care how much the Government increases the penalties in the sanctions provisions of the Act because the trade unions have no intention of paying the fines. The Government may increase them to $10,000 and 10 years imprisonment; the unions have no intention of paying fines for breaches of certain sections. I want to read one of the decisions made at the congress of the Australian Council of Trade Unions held from 30th August to 3rd September 1971. Dealing with penal provisions, this document states: 
PENAL PROVISIONS 
The Penal Clauses of the Arbitration system in this country have been strenuously opposed by, the Australian Trade Union Movement from inception as a direct attack on the fundamental right of workers' organisations to use industrial strength in support of legitimate claims. 
This 1971 ACTU Congress declares its belief in the right of organised trade unions to strike. 
The authority of the organised Trade Union Movement should not be impeded in the performance of responsible traditional functions which must include the right to withhold labor or impose limitation of performance of work - otherwise the minimum wage and conditions of work awarded by tribunals become the maximum and inhibit the possibilities of improvements. 
Congress reaffirms its opposition to continuation of penal provisions and demands the repeal of all legislation which protect employers from normal bargaining procedures yet discriminates against the unions. 
Congress declares that the amending legislation of 1970 . . . 
That was the legislation which this Government put through the Parliament in the dying stages of the 1970 autumn session and prior to the 1970 Senate election. The legislation was not properly considered because the Government gagged debate on every clause in the Committee stage. Divisions were taken on every clause. The decision continued:   . . whilst eliminating the Contempt proceedings, nevertheless continued Penal Provisions which can be invoked against the unions, and therefore is unacceptable to the Trade Union Movement whilst these Penal Provisions are retained. Essentially we say that these penalties are Immoral in that they constitute a double standard which operates against wage and salary earners and their unions. Workers and their organisations are concerned with selling labor. The buyers of this labor are employers who must recognise the human dignity, of the worker. As sellers we desire to obtain that price which represents a proper return for skills, talents and energies which we have to sell. 
That position is not only allowed to all other sellers in the Australian market economy: it is the fundamental article of faith of the buyers of our labor in their capacity as sellers of goods and services. The Government shares this article of faith with employers in their capacity as sellers - but does not extend the same right to us. It denies that right by imposing discriminatory penalties upon us. This double standard can have no moral justification and is certainly unacceptable to us. 
That was the ACTU speaking on behalf of over 1 million trade unionists whose unions are affiliated with that body. Another point referred to in the second reading speech by the Attorney-General was the amalgamation of organisations. A lot has been said during this debate, particularly by honourable senators on this side of the chamber, in opposition to this provision. The blatant interference by the Government in the internal affairs of trade unions has been referred to. Here again we have a double standard. Would there be any interference by the Government if the South Australian Employers Federation were to amalgamate with the Chamber of Manufactures? Certainly there would not be. If the South Australian Farmer and Grazier wanted to affiliate with the Stockowners Association of South Australia it could do that. No restrictions would be placed on employer organisations if they desired to amalgamate. Looking at the amalgamation procedures which are intended in the Bill, I believe that these were put there only to placate the Australian Democratic Labor Party. That Party made every effort through the National Civic Council to prevent the amalgamation of the 3 major metal trades unions of Australia. 
This legislation has been brought down to make certain that the road to amalgamations by the trade unions is going to be pretty hard in future. We know - the employers have admitted this - that demarcation disputes, whether they be between tradesmen, semi-skilled workers or labourers, represent a significant proportion of the time lost through stoppages. I think it is recognised that such stoppages represent about 11 per cent. Surely members of the Government must realise that when there is an amalgamation of unions - previously where there were 2, 3 or 4 organisations they are now speaking with one voice - a lot of these demarcation disputes will be eliminated. In Australia today over 300 unions are registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Of these unions 298 have less than 10,000 members and 198 have less than 2,000 members. So here in Australia, with a population of only 13 million and probably 4.5 million in the workforce, we have over 300 unions representing those workers. There are far too many unions in Australia. The time has come when the smaller unions have seen the wisdom of amalgamation because it will save the unions expenditure in office rentals, union officials, staff and the many other expenses which are incurred by the smaller unions. Also they will be able to give their union members far better service because of amalgamation. Of course this is what the Government does not want. I think it has adopted the attitude that the trade union movements' gains over the last 2 years have to be prevented. It is prepared to take any drastic measures which will prevent further increases in gains which the unions have won over the last 2 to 3 years. 
I shall briefly refer to how the Australian Workers Union will fare under the legislation which is proposed in the Bill which we are now discussing. It should not be forgotten that the Australian Workers Union, as it is today, comprises a number of unions which have been incorporated over the years. It was established as the Australian Shearers Union in 1886. It was joined by the GLU and the AWA  A  Queensland, the Rural Workers Union, the ULU of South Australia, the Railways Workers and General Labourers Association of New South Wales, the FMEA of Australia, the Surveyors Employees Union, the ULU of Victoria, the Factory Employees Union and the ULU in New South Wales. These unions amalgamated and the Australian Workers Union was formed. This would be completely impossible with the restrictions which are contained in the Bill because of the complexities of the industries from which the Australian 
Workers Union is formed. The membership is scattered far and wide to the outback areas and it would be completely impossible to conduct a ballot to bring about amalgamation. 
I fortify my argument on this matter by quoting from the Hansard of the House of Representatives of Wednesday, 10th May 1972.  Mr Clyde  Cameron, when speaking to the Bill, had incorporated in Hansard a table relating to ballots conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Officer and by the Commonwealth Industrial Registrar. I will not quote all the figures in the table. I will refer only to ballots which concerned the Australian Workers Union. These ballots were conducted officially by the Electoral Officer under section 170 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In 1964 there was a ballot of all members of the union to elect a general secretary. Of the ballot papers posted to members of the Union, only 30.87 per cent were returned. Of the ballot papers that were returned, probably about 10 per cent were informal. The figure may have been even higher. In later years ballots were conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Officer in which members elected delegates to attend the annual convention of the Australian Workers Union. In 1966 there was a ballot in South Australia. Only 41.74 per cent of the ballot papers were returned. 
In 1967 there was a ballot for the election of delegates to the Australian Workers Union annual convention. I shall give the percentage of ballot papers returned for the various States. In New South Wales it was 27,38, in Queensland it was 24.23, in South Australia it was 29.77, in Western Australia it was 35.22 and in Tasmania it was 25.68; that is, an average of only approximately 25 per cent of members returned their ballot papers. A similar pattern was disclosed at the 1968 elections, at which there was a ballot for similar-, positions. In 1969, 1970 and 1971, although the figures for 1971 are not recorded in the table, similar results were achieved. Under this legislation the Australian Workers Union and a smaller union could never amalgamate because it would be completely impossible to get a 50 per cent return of ballot papers. It is obvious that whoever drafted the legislation knows very little about the ramifications of the trade union movement. The only ones who can be responsible are the Government and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  No-one would knowingly insert in the Act such a prohibitive provision that would prevent unions from amalgamating. It is obvious that this position will apply not only to the Australian Workers Union but also, equally, to many other unions whose membership is scattered throughout the States. The table to which I have referred shows that there are many other unions in respect of which the percentage of ballot papers returned was less than 20 per cent. 
The Bill places a restriction on the trade unions. Surely they have the right to decide their own form of election. If, in accordance with their rules, they decide on amalgamation, that right should not be denied them or taken away from them by legislation introduced in this Parliament. It is strange that just prior to the introduction of the legislation references were made in newspapers to amalgamations. The Australian' of Friday, 25th February, reported: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  has assured his senior Ministers that the Federal Government will not try to stop the formation of the country's biggest industrial union combine. 
All I can glean from that statement is that the Prime Minister does not regard the Minister for Labor and National Service as one of his senior Ministers. An article in the 'Australian Financial Review' of the same date reported the employers' attitude. It stated: 

 Mr F. R. D. Morgan, national  president  of the  Metal Trades Industry Association, said in  a  statement: 
Far from objecting to the amalgamation the Metal Trades Industry Association secs many practical advantages for industrial relations in the metal trades industry . . .'. 
There is a complete somersault in the statements made by the employers and the statements made by the Prime Minister. Another salient feature of the legislation is the reference to control over the unions in relation to strikes and secret ballots being conducted where they are considered necessary. I think other senators on this side have adequately exposed that proposal as hypocritical, and at this stage I do not intend to pursue that matter any further. 
I now draw the attention of the Senate to the Commonwealth Government submissions that were placed before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission during the  1971-72  national wage case. Those submissions are very lengthy. They number  49  pages, plus tables. Submissions regarding rural industry were made by counsel for the Government. Although I am the second last or third last  speaker  in the debate, I raise the matter because the  speaker  who led for the Government,  Senator Lillico,  made reference to the plight of rural industry, as he usually does during his contributions to debates. He pointed out why special privileges should be given to this sector. At page 21,  under the heading 'Rural Industry', the submissions state: 
As in. previous major wage cases, the Commonwealth wishes io bring to the attention of the Commission the situation of rural industry in Australia and the importance for it of continuing substantial increases in costs. The rural industries, of course, comprise an important sector of the Australian economy, particularly as regards their contribution to our export performance. Accordingly, the Commonwealth submits that the Commission should as it has done in the past pay due regard to the current economic position of this sector. 
Three points were put forward by the Commonwealth at the conclusion of its submissions to the Commission in the national wage case. They were in fact requests by the Commonwealth. They were: Firstly, that the Commission should not award an increase in the total wage; secondly, that the Commonwealth did not oppose some increase in the minimum wage consistent with the submissions it had just made; and, thirdly, that the Commission should reject the claim for cost of living adjustments to the minimum wage in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. 
I believe that the Commonwealth usurped the functions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by dictating to it the basis upon which its judgment should be given. I say that because the Commission's judgment was precisely in the terms suggested by the Commonwealth in its submissions. Firstly, the Commonwealth submitted that the Commission should not award an increase in the total wage. It would have been too obvious if the Commission had not granted any increase. It could not have granted any less than the amount it did grant in its judgment of  $2  a week. The second proposition put forward by the Commonwealth was that it did not oppose some increase in the minimum wage. The Commission awarded some increase in the minimum wage. In other words, it did precisely what the Commonwealth asked it to do. The third proposition put forward by the Commonwealth was that the Commission should reject the claim for cost of living adjustments to the minimum wage in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. That is precisely what the Commission did when it handed down its judgment in the  1971-72  national wage case. 
It also should be noted that deliberate delaying tactics were adopted by the employers and the Government so that the judgment would not be handed down until the latest date possible. The application was lodged by the Australian Council of Trade Unions for a review of the national wage in August or September of last year, but a decision was not handed down on that application until April of this year. After the hearing had been completed it took the Commission about 6 weeks to give its judgment. The Commission knew - it was acting under the instructions of the Government - that for every week it delayed increasing the national wage only the  $2  a week which is eventually granted - it would save the Government and the employers at least $14m. Is it any wonder that the Government and the employers requested the Commission to delay handing down its decision? Is it any wonder that reference was made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in his second reading speech to the fact that the arbitration system is undergoing some severe strains and that in the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill which was before the Senate in 1970  there was a reference to the fact that the arbitration system in Australia was at the crossroads? Those are the views of Government spokesmen on the arbitration system and not the Opposition. 
It seems to me that the Government and the employers are becoming more and more concerned about the wage increases that the unions have been gaining over the last two or three years. Trenchant attacks have been made in this chamber on many  occasions on the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and on officials of the trade unions, particularly those officials who are communists. It is very noticeable from an examination of the figures in a document entitled Table A - Trends in wages, prices and productivity since 1955-56' that was tendered in evidence by the Commonwealth during the national wage case that the average weekly earnings per employed male unit increased by only small amounts between 1955-56 and 1969-70. In 1956-57 they increased by 4.6 per cent and in 1957-58 they increased by 2.8 per cent. The following year they increased by 3 per cent. The average weekly earnings increased by only small amounts right through to the year 1969-70, which is just about the time that there was a change in the leadership of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I am not going to give Bob Hawke all the credit for being personally responsible, following his election as  president  of the ACTU, for the trade union movement at last getting some semblance of recognition for the work that its members performed. But I would point out that in 1968-69 the increase was 7.5 per cent; that in 1969-70 it was 8.4 per cent; and that In 1970-71 it was 11.3 per cent. That is the last full year for which figures appear in the schedule. But it is noticeable that the September quarter for 1971-72 showed an increase of 11.5 per cent and the December quarter for the same year showed an increase of 11 per cent. 
During the last two or three years the unions have, through their efforts and submissions to the industrial tribunals and some prior activity on the job, gained increases but they have been only in keeping with cost of living increases. I say that because between the decision being handed down in the 1970 national wage case, which was given effect to in January Of last year, and the decision being handed down in the 1971-72 national wage case, the cost of living has increased by 10 per cent. To offset the cost of living increases during that period the Commission granted an increase of exactly 2 per cent in the salary of a wage earner on $100 a week. The Government now thinks that it is necessary to introduce some legislation that will prevent this type of increase being continually granted, The Government never bothers to introduce any measures to prevent cost of living rises. It never said anything on either occasion on which the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd increased the price of steel in the last 2 years. It is the unions and their members who have '.o bear the burden when the cost of living increases are out of all proportion and inflation runs rife. During this period the unemployment figures have increased. 
Although it has tempted the public by small handouts to pensioners and small handouts in the form of unemployment benefit the popularity of the Government, according to public opinion polls, is lower now than it has been since public opinion polls have been taken. As a matter of fact there was only 22 per cent support for the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in the latest public opinion poll. It is obvious that the Government is getting desperate. It has introduced other measures in an endeavour to get some support from the public on the eve of an election. It has increased pensions and so on. Apparently the Government now thinks - as it did in 1970  -  that the best weapon it has to fool the people on the eve of an election is legislation to alter the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I do not know why it decided that. Apparently it did not pay much attention to the figures of the 1970 election when the Government's numbers in this chamber were reduced. 
It is obvious that the same thing will happen at the next election. Because the Government has no effective control of prices and has failed to do anything to stop inflation it has come to the conclusion that the only remedy available is to reduce wages. Honourable senators opposite have repeated that wage increases are the major component in inflation. Inflation is a problem not only of Australia. It is a problem of all capitalist countries. We have not got it on our own and there is nothing that the Government can do about it. Why does it not admit that there is absolutely nothing it can do to prevent inflation? The big primary and secondary industries, mineral resources, banking and insurance houses and wealth of the country are in the hands of private enterprise which dictates the terms on prices. They are uncontrolled by the Government and there is nothing at all that the Government can do to prevent price increases or inflation. 
I listened to  Senator Lillico  in this debate. Whether knowingly or not, he gave us something to rely on as to the Government's intentions about prices. He referred to New Zealand and the United Kingdom. He said how the Government over there has introduced legislation pegging wage increases at a maximum of 7 per cent. He thinks that that is a terrific idea but he did not mention what should be done about the other component in productivity. Honourable senators can rest assured that while prices keep rising and the unions have to fight their claims in the arena of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission there will always be conflict and agitation by the workers trying to gain an increased percentage for their labour. The employers will always be in the opposite corner trying to maintain higher dividends for their shareholders and the companies they represent. 
The Commonwealth intervened in the last national wage case and got the decision that it wanted. It also gained another decision in respect of the rural industry. In 1970 workers covered by section 2 of the Federal Pastoral Industry Award, which covers station hands, were the only ones excluded from the flow-on of the 6 per cent increase granted by the Arbitration Commission. In the last national wage case the Commission went even further at the request of the Government and excluded not only station hands working under section 2 of the Federal Pastoral Industry Award but also all employees covered by the award. They were all excluded from the flow-on of the increase granted in the 1971-72 national wage case. 
It is obvious that the Arbitration Commission is meeting the wishes of the Government and employer representatives by keeping rates of pay at a minimum. Of course, the minimum is well below what is recognised as the poverty line. Of all federal awards registered with the Arbitration Commission only the Federal Pastoral Industry Award was singled out to be excluded. Each of the 41 other awards covering members of the Australian Workers' Union received the benefit of the 1970 increase and the increase, small as it is, from the last national wage case. This prompted an article in the 'Australian Worker', the official journal of the Aus tralian Workers' Union. It appeared in the edition of Wednesday 1st March 1972 under the heading 'Station Hand Is Better Off On The Dole'. I will read the article because I think some honourable senators will be surprised that in a society regarded by the more fortunate as affluent some workers are living on an income which places them below what is accepted as the poverty line. The article states: 
An unemployed, married stationhand with five children will be better off financially living off unemployment benefits while sitting at home doing nothing, than working long hours under archaic, court-prescribed Award conditions, AWU General Secretary, Tom Dougherty, said last week. 

 Mr Dougherty said he had reached that conclusion after examining the new unemployment benefits announced by Prime Minister McMahon recently. 

 Mr Dougherty said large families were not uncommon in rural areas. 
Even a Stationhand with three or four children certainly would not be much, if any, worse off taking into consideration the Award rates and the various deductions. 
He said, 'Certainly I am not saying that the new unemployment rates are- adequate for  a  family to live on. They are obviously an improvement on the old rates, but at least another $10 a week is needed to support a family in reasonable comfort. 
The point I am making is that the new unemployment benefit rates show how badly Stationhands have been treated by the Court in the making of the present Award,' he said. 
The Commonwealth Industrial Court last year rejected a Head Office application for the inclusion of Stationhands in the six per cent National Wage Case decision which began operating from January 1, 1971. 
The Court also rejected a Head Office application for a 40-hour, five-day week for Stationhands to be worked Monday to Friday inclusive and all other time to be paid for at overtime rates. 
Those two decisions caused enormous unrest within the Stationhand component of the AWU membership and deep concern within the whole Trade Union Movement. 
The Prime Minister on February 15 announced new rates of unemployment benefit payments. 
Under the new rates an unemployed Stationhand will receive $17  a  week unemployment benefit from the Commonwealth. 
The Commonwealth in addition pays  $8  a week for his wife and $4.50 a week for each child. 
Therefore, the total weekly entitlement for  a  married man with five dependent children in future will be $47.50 a week. 

 Mr Dougherty said the Award provided  a  minimum rate of $46.40 a week for Stationhands 
From that amount was to be deducted $10.14 a week if the employer provided 'Keep' for the  Stationhand 
In addition a married man with six dependants (wife and five children) pays $2.75 a week tax. 
Thus, the  Stationhand  had gross deductions of $12.89, leaving him a total of $33.51 a week to send home lo his wife on which she and her children had to scrape by. 
Without reading the rest of the statement, let me say that the community should be able to rely on the Commission for satisfactory judgments when matters are properly litigated, whether in the national wage case or in an application for shorter working hours. In 1970, as I said before, the court did not apply the 6 per cent increase to station hands, nor did it apply the increase in the minimum wage granted at that time. Station hands working on pastoral properties were not treated fairly. Many of those properties are owned by wealthy graziers who, in the past 12 months or so, since I have been in this Parliament have been fortunate enough to get handouts of millions of dollars by way of subsidy. Workers covered by the station hands section of the award did not get the minimum wage which was granted to every other worker in Australia on 1st January 1970. They had to wait until July 1970 to get the miserly increase in the minimum wage which all other workers had received 7 months before. 
In the recent judgment a similar principle applied. Station hands were again excluded, as were all the shearing personnel in the industry. We all know that the pastoral industry is very important to Australia. Wool has been one of our major exports, and it still brings in a considerable amount of Australia's export earnings. Again, shearers and station hands who are expected to work out in the desert under archaic working conditions and in all kinds of climates, have been excluded. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question without notice: 
Is it a fact that the staff of the Department of Foreign Affairs, China section, has dropped from five to two over the last 2 months? In view of the importance of improving our relations with China, if we are to regain the loss of exports, particularly of wheat, does the Minister regard the situation as being critical? What action does the Minister intend taking to ensure that the staff of the Department's China Section is restored to at least its previous strength? 

 Senator WRIGHT - The Minister for Foreign Affairs has supplied the following answer: 
The China/Korea Section of the Department of Foreign Affairs is normally staffed by six officers. It is true that due to a combination of circumstances, for a short period recently there were only two officers working in the Section. 
My Department is fully conscious of the need to ensure that the China/Korea Section is fully staffed. There are now five officers in the section and action is being taken to finalise the appointment of a research officer. It is also planned to replace the additional officer who had been attached to the section for research purposes. The underlying assumption in the Question of the existence of a critical situation is not borne out by the facts. Details of the normal establishment of the section and action being taken to fill the vacancies is provided in my reply to Question on Notice No. 5201 of 3rd March from  Mr Reynolds  in the House of Representatives. 
 I support the amendment moved by  Senator James  McClelland and at the same time seek clarification of the intention of the proposed new section of the Act. It appears to me that there are 2 reasons why a member may resign from an organisation. Proposed new section 145 reads as follows: (I.) A member may resign his membership of an organization by notice in writing if - 
being a member of an organization of employees, he accepts employment in an industry other than the industry in connexion with which the organization is registered; or 
the notice is given not less than three months, or not less than such shorter period as is specified in the rules of the organization, before the resignation is to take effect and any requirement of those rules as to payment of dues to the date on which the resignation is to take effect is complied with. 
From the first part of the section it appears to me that there is no requirement that the member of the organisation resigning has to be financial. He can be in arrears with his contributions, levies or fines. I believe that this is contrary to most of the resignation rules of all the organisations of which I am aware. As a matter of fact, the resignation rule of the Australian Workers Union stipulates that a member wishing to resign shall be liable for all membership subscriptions, fines, levies and dues owing by him to the union to the date of the expiration of such notice. It is my interpretation that the provision proposed in the Bill does not make it obligatory for the member resigning, if he changes his occupation by going to another organisation, to be financial. I think that this point should be cleared up because resignations from the membership of unions cause quite a lot of conflict between members and officials. The rules of the various organisations are not uniform. Therefore when one refers to the Act at least it should stipulate clearly the intention of the proposed new measures contained in the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Are there ominous signs that the prolonged drought in the main wheat growing areas could considerably reduce the expected wheat yield this year? Is there not a distinct possibility that wheat production could be so reduced that Australia would be unable to fulfil its export commitments? Will the transfer of wheat quotas be considered by the Minister as a means of alleviating the situation if the dry spell continues? 
J ask  the Minister for Health: When will the proposed warning that smoking is a health hazard be required to appear on cigarette packets? When does the Government propose to proclaim the appropriate legislation? 
The labelling of cigarette packets with a warning as to the risks involved in cigarette smoking is a State matter and the Commonwealth's commitment can be only in relation to the Commonwealth territories, namely, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. As Minister for Health I did have discussions with Health Ministers from the States in order to get a uniform date for the introduction of the labelling of cigarette packets. It was believed that the uniform date would be 1st January next year. However, since then some States have indicated, without departing from the principle of the matter, some variation as to the date of operation. For instance, I understand that the new Tasmanian Government has indicated that 1st May is the appro priate date. I understand that the New South Wales Government has also indicated that 1st May is the appropriate date. However, Victoria has indicated 1st January next year as its date of operation. I hope I am not wrong on this but my understanding is that the Western Australian Government has indicated 1st January next year also. The South Australian Government has indicated that it will bring this proposal into operation when 3 States have brought it into effect. The Queensland Government has indicated that it will bring it into operation when all the other States have brought it into effect. So this is a bit of a grey area, but as I see the situation now it is definite that Victoria and one other State  -  I think it is Western Australia - will put the proposal into effect on 1st January next year. At (east 2 States have suggested that at the moment they are looking critically at 1st May next year as their commencing date. So far as the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are concerned, because cigarettes are not manufactured and packaged in our Territories, we will be influenced by what happens in the States. It is my hope and desire that the Commonwealth will make it applicable as from 1st January of next year. 
Whilst I am on my feet I would like to make an announcement about legislation which was passed by both Houses of the Parliament during the last session regarding cigarette advertising on television and radio and the warning which is to come into effect on a date to be proclaimed. The Postmaster-General has informed me that it is proposed that the proclamation become effective from 1st January of next year. 
I  direct a question to the Attorney-General, ls it a fact that the Attorney-General authorised the payment of costs amounting to approximately $11,000 awarded against a union official in New South Wales? Was the authority given by the AttorneyGeneral after the Commonwealth Industrial Registrar had previously refused a request for the payment of those costs? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry read a report in the Canberra Times' claiming that the general manager of the Australian Wool Commission has stated that there could be dangers if wool prices rise too rapidly; that too sharp a rise could result in a change against wool in the blend of fibres, resulting in a prices reversal? Does the Minister agree that if wool became too dear processors and manufacturers might turn again to synthetics? Finally, what control, if any, has the Australian Wool Commission over maximum prices for wool? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware of a recent survey conducted by the Farmers and Graziers Co-operative Limited which shows that this season's Australian wheat crop is expected to be the lowest for 10 years and could be as low as 250 million bushels compared with the fixed quota of 407 million bushels? Can wheat growers expect the Government to make an early announcement on the abolition of wheat quotas for the 1973- 74 season so as to ensure that production is not further curtailed at a time when our wheat stocks are at a dangerously low level? 
1  direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Can the Minister give any reason why there has been such a long delay by the Bureau of Transport Economics in making its report on the advantages to be gained from using concrete sleepers or wood sleepers by the Commonwealth Railways on the track between Port Augusta and Port Pirie? Will the Minister make inquiries as to when the report will be made available to the Senate? 
J direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Will he direct inquiries to the Department of Labour and National Service to ascertain why the Department does not provide statistics on the age and duration of registration of all persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Office? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Will the Department of Social Services automatically adjust the present allowance for wives to the rate of increase to which they are entitled. 
Will the Department of Social Services' officers ensure that all wives of pensioners not now receiving an allowance are automatically paid their entitlement, or will it be necessary for those who now become eligible to make an application. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The Minister for Social Services has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
All wives' allowances were automatically increased to wife's pension rate from and including pay day 5th October 1972 
It will be necessary for pensioners' wives who were not receiving an allowance, to claim for wife's pension. It is not possible for their eligibility to be determined until their claims are examined. However, notices have been forwarded to all of the pensioners concerned advising them of the new provisions and inviting applications from their wives. 
Is the 
Minister representing the Minister for Social Services able to state whether there has been a satisfactory response to the notices sent to pensioners by the Department of Social Service advising of the extension of eligibility to wives of pensioners? Can he inform the Senate why the notices did not refer to the supplementary assistance now payable to married couples who pay rent or board or lodging? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the actual charges for medical consultations for ex-servicemen with repatriation entitlements at the professional rooms of general practitioners or specialists? Are these charges to the Repatriation Department a standard 20 per cent less than the normal common fees? 
The matter I wish to raise tonight concerns a Greek family who returned to Australia from Greece on or about 1 1 th October last. The ages of the 4 children in the family range from 24 years to 7 years. Acting on medical advice, the mother of these children decided earlier in the year to go to Greece to see whether that would aid her health. The family left Australia on 15th March of this year. Both the father and mother of the children are naturalised Australians. The mother was naturalised in 1963 and the father in 1968. All of the children were born in Australia. On their arrival in Greece earlier this year, a military police officer boarded the ship at Piraeus. On the following day military police came to the home where the father was living in order to arrest him because he had not done his compulsory military service. It was only through the efforts of his uncle, who knew someone appropriate in Greece, that he was able to have  his  call-up deferred. However, he received a letter from the authorities to the effect that if he made a payment to the Greek Government it would not be necessary to undergo military training. 
The father heard no more of the matter until a few weeks ago when  he  received  a  further notification that he was required to report for army service on 20th October this year. The mother and the 4 young children have returned to Australia. They are in a precarious position. They have nowhere to live and have no income. There is no provision in the Social Services Act for families destitute in such circumstances. The mother and children have to rely on the State Welfare Department for sustenance. The young children are fretting for their father, and the mother is also fretting. She has been told by her local doctor that her health will further deteriorate unless she  is  reunited with her husband. 
In these matters the Australian Government has failed to advise Greek nationals who have been naturalised in Australia and are planning to visit Greece. At naturalisation ceremonies migrants are told that they have become Australian citizens and have the rights and privileges of every other Australian. I think that officers of the Department of Immigration should advise migrants from countries such as Greece that have compulsory military service that irrespective of whether they are naturalised in Australia they retain their former nationality and on returning to their former country, irrespective of how long they had been away from it, will be required to undergo military training. 
On 1 6th October I raised this matter and I have deferred raising it again in the Senate for as long as possible, hoping to receive a reply from the Department of Foreign Affairs. I have rung the Department on 2 occasions and each time I was told that the Department is looking into the matter. It seems to me that nothing has been done. Although the father of the children, whose name is Dimitrious Lekatis, called at the Australian Embassy in Athens on 3 occasions, he was told there that they could do nothing about it. 
I would like the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who represents the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes),  to advise Greeks in Australia who contemplate going to Greece even if for only a visit of the dangers. He should tell them that Greece is under a military dictatorship and that they may be forced to do compulsory military training. I understand that  Mr Lekatis  would be detained in Greece and separated from his wife and young children, who have no income other than what they are receiving from the State Welfare Department. He could be detained in Greece to do between 8 and 12 months training. This, I believe, is something which the Government should take up to try to avoid a similar happening in the future. I doubt whether any Greeks would want to go to Greece if they knew they would be called up for military training. They should be warned of this possibility. The Australian Government knows all about it and about the military dictatorship in Greece but we never hear in this chamber any derogatory remarks about the Greek dictatorship. I think Greeks should be warned of this possibility and that is why I have raised this matter tonight - in the hope that something can be done at this late stage to have  Mr Lekatis  returned to Australia. He is prepared to pay whatever amount the Greek Government demands in lieu of military training but he has not been given the opportunity to do so, although he was advised by letter that an arrangement could be made. He waited expectantly for weeks to see what the amount would be but then found out that he had been called up. Probably, if nothing has been done in the meantime, he is now serving in the army. I hope the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration will take up this matter with the Minister for Immigration and also with the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Earlier  Senator McManus  asked the Minister a question which had as one of its premises that Canada maintains a trade office in Taiwan. Can the Minister say whether this assertion is true or whether it is just another figment of the fantasy world in which the Australian Democratic Labour Party exists? 
During the course of this debate, which is now into its third day, most honourable senators opposite have referred to the policy speech of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Even  Senator Laucke  referred to it. Most of them have quoted from the speech and have held up a copy of it so that honourable senators can look at it. There are more than 70 "heads of policy in the policy speech which the Prime Minister, on 13th November 1972, delivered on television in 30 minutes. Surely honourable senators opposite would not expect a policy speech dealing with industrial relations to spell everything out explicitly and in minute detail. If one looks at our platform one sees that there are more than 6 pages dealing with industrial relations. Surely every honourable senator opposite must realise the impossibility and the impracticability of including everything in detail in a policy speech. 
Reference has been made to the fact that the policy speech stated that all Commonwealth employees would receive 4 weeks annual leave. That was stated in a sentence. There were exactly 9 words dealing with Commonwealth employees' entitlement to 4 weeks annual leave. If one looks at our platform one sees reference to preference to unionists. This has been a policy in the platform of the Australian Labor Party for many years. As a matter of fact, there have been only a few years since the Party was formed when we have had a policy other than preference to unionists. I claim that the Australian 
Labor Party received its massive vote on 2nd December because people knew our policies regarding 4 weeks annual leave and preference to unionists. It is a matter of taking the 2 together - the reference to preference to unionists in our platform and the reference to 4 weeks annual leave in the policy speech of the Prime Minister. Anvone could reach the conclusion that preference would be applied in respect of the granting of 4 weeks annual leave; that it would be given only to those who were members of the appropriate unions. 
We are not going back on it at all. It is simply that honourable senators opposite do not follow and cannot accept what was accepted overwhelmingly by the majority of the Australian people, when the Labor Party received more votes than the combined vote of all the other political parties in Australia. Previous speakers today have referred to the question of preference to unionists and to the provision in the determinations that employees will not receive the benefits unless they are members of the appropriate unions. Under a Commonwealth Railways determination since 1947 an employee has sacrificed or lost his annual leave, sick leave and public holidays if he has not been a member of the appropriate union. That has been in the determination for 26 years, and at no stage during the term of office of the previous Government was any attempt made to remove or to disallow the determination that prescribes that entitlement. 

 Senator Sim stated tonight that the Senate had not been told of the Government's intention. Surely he must have known the Government's intention because 2 Ministers - the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  - stated during question time that the Government would introduce a Bill giving effect to the granting of 4 weeks annual leave. Of course, it means that employees will receive 4 weeks annual leave whether they joined the appropriate union before or after 1st January. 
I did not interject while  Senator Little  was speaking. I have sat in this chamber during most of the debate- 
I am not going to be blamed for what my mates did. 1 have listened very attentively to honourable senators and I find that their arguments in support of the motion are very weak. In fact, the Opposition has accepted a double standard. It is surprising that now, after the election, we see the Opposition and the Australian Democratic Labor Party supporting the concept of 4 weeks annual leave. Prior to the election not one of the political parties opposite mentioned that it would support or introduce any proposal to increase annual leave. But we do know that, on the last occasion on which the annual leave case was before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the then Government - now the Opposition - opposed all the claims that were submitted by the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I wish to read an extract from the reasons for the decision given by the Arbitration Commission in the annual leave case of 1971. The decision was handed down on 7th December 1971. I have no doubt that had the Government in office in 1971 acted in accordance with the promises made by the present Government to support the application for an extra week's annual leave we would not be debating this issue here tonight. The Commission in handing down its decision said: 
The Commonwealth Government, appearing in its statutory role as intervener in the public interest, expressed in positive terms its opposition to all the claims. Having reviewed the economy, it said: 'In these circumstances the Commonwealth is impelled in the broad national interest, to flatly oppose each of the claims before the Commission.' The Commonwealth referred to 'the severe cost pressures which are already besetting the economy' and said 'our submissions will clearly indicate that there is no capacity available to support any of the claims'. It pointed out that the fruits of the economy's growth may be distributed in either income or leisure and in fact in this case there are claims for increases in both income and leisure. It suggested that there was no significant evidence of community preferences towards increased leisure at the expense of the material standard of living. Its main theme however was one of inflation. It contended that increases in labour costs (which of course include the cost of extra leave) would lead to further price inflation and also submitted that the granting of an additional week's leave would increase unit labour costs. On different bases it calculated a number of increases some of which are set out in the table below. Al! these estimates, it submitted, must be considered in the context that wages and salaries have risen far ahead of productivity gains and that these rises are accelerating in a time of low produc tivity growth. It was also submitted that 'in the present economic context, the granting of either the claims for increased leave or the claims for leave loading would run completely counter fo the Budget strategy and, indeed, to the whole thrust and direction of the Government's overall economic policies'. These submissions were backed by a detailed analysis of certain aspects of the economic situation. 
They are the reasons given by the Commission for its refusal to grant an extra week's annual leave in 1971 when the Commonwealth Government intervened on the side of the employers. I want briefly to reiterate  a  point raised by  Senator Brown  and referred to by other honourable senators on this side of the chamber.  I  believe that there is  a  very close similarity between the trade union movement and its rules, regulations and registration and the National Health Act and its rules, regulations and registration. 
-It is up to honourable senators to make up their own minds on that point. In order to obtain the benefits payable under the National Health Act it is necessary to be a member of a hospital or medical benefits fund. That fund must have rules which are registered and accepted by the Government. Similarly, a trade union movement has to have rules that are acceptable to the Commonwealth Industrial Registrar by complying with the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. A person who is not a member of a trade union and is working in an industry covered by a union in my opinion is not entitled to the benefits that that union gains for its members. Similarly, people who are not members of a hospital or medical benefits fund when hospitalised cannot expect to have their expenses reimbursed by a fund. 
The effects of the National Health Act have been far more severe than the Government intended because it is necessary to be a member of a fund for a probationary period before receiving any benefits. Under the Government's proposals for 4 weeks annual leave, public servants who joined an appropriate union are to be entitled to an extra week's annual leave. Honourable senators opposite have sought to emphasise that duress and blackmail have been used to force conscientious objectors into a union. That is a lot of rot. It is a hypocritical statement. Probably not many honourable senators opposite have any knowledge or experience of the trade union movement. 
I was a trade union official for 19 years. During my experience as a trade union organiser I visited hundreds of jobs and called on thousands of members. During that period I met only 2 persons who claimed to be conscientious objectors. They were members of the Seventh Day Adventist religion. To my knowledge that is the only religious organisation which refers to ks members joining a trade union. Whether they join a union is left to their own consciences. During the whole time that I was a union official they were the only 2 people I met who were genuine conscientious objectors. 
I will explain after we adjourn tonight. 
I will deal with it when we come to a certain Bill. It will "then be more appropriate to do so. Under many Federal awards the benefits are paid only to members of a particular union. I refer, for example, to the Federal Pastoral Industry Award and the Dried Fruits Industry Award. Workers who do not belong to the Australian Workers Union do not get the benefits of those awards in respect of annual leave, sick leave, long service leave, public holidays, rates of pay, overtime or penalty rates. 
Honourable senators opposite are talking nonsense when they say that they do not accept the principle that it is necessary to belong to a union to be entitled to benefits. 
But for the trade union movement there would be no Labor Party.  Senator Little  knows that. The trade union movement has elected to this Parliament and other Parliaments of the Commonwealth many union officials who know what their members want. They have played a leading part in giving parliamentary effect to conditions that the trade union movement could not obtain in the industrial sphere. Therefore to say that trade unions had nothing to do with obtaining 4 weeks annual leave is a lot of nonsense. The principle of 4 weeks annua] leave has been the policy of the trade union movement for many years. It was accepted by the Australian Labor Party as part of its industrial relation platform and this is the first occasion on which the Commonwealth Government has attempted to implement that policy 
I thought I answered that point previously. There would be no Labor Party without the trade union movement. The trade union movement is the backbone of the Australian Labor Party whether  Senator Little  likes it or not. 
I believe that there is an undeniable obligation on all employees who accept the benefits of improved working conditions gained by the unions to become members of their appropriate organisation. 
I did not think much more of Joe Bukowski than you did. Now that you have mentioned his name, I remind you that he gained his power as secretary of the Queensland branch because of Australian Labor Party legislation in Queensland relating to compulsory unionism. 
-It was compulsory unionism in Queensland, lt was an offence for an employer to employ anybody who was not a member of his appropriate union. In Queensland during the time that  Senator Gair  refers to - he was Premier of Queensland at the time - any official of a union could go to an employer, ask for his time book, check the names in that book and then check the membership roll of his organisation. If there happened to be an employee named in that time book who was not a member of the organisation the union official would take proceedings to prosecute the employer and the union could not lose the case. The trade unions prosecuted and won many cases in Queensland against employers because they were employing non-unionists.  Senator Gair  was Premier when this practice existed and it existed for a long time before he became Premier. That was how the late Joe Bukowski became so powerful in the Australian Workers Union in Queensland. This is a late stage of this debate. Entering it at this late hour of the third day leaves very little to add. I believe that Government' supporters who have spoken in opposition to the motion moved by  Senator Greenwood  have proved conclusively that the policy of the Government was very clearly spelt out prior to the election. It also is spelt out very clearly in our policy and rules. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a Press report that a Navy patrol boat has been directed to keep salvage divers away from a Japanese submarine which was sunk off the coast of Darwin in 1942? Is the Minister able to give any information which would explain the action taken by the Government? 
 I present the report of Estimates Committee D relating to the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1972-73, together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
1 rise very briefly to refute the misleading allegations made by  Senator Jessop.  This is not the first occasion on which he has attempted to mislead the Senate by quoting wrong information. Again, I think the information should be corrected. Honourable senators will recall that during the Budget debate last year  Senator Jessop  had to be corrected by my colleague,  Senator McLaren.  The actual fact is that the LockKim ba pipeline, the construction of which is the responsibility of the South Australian Government, was delayed and deferred only because the previous McMahon Government refused to assist the State in the financing of it. That was rectified with a change of Government.  Senator Jessop  was in error in saying that the failure of the State Government to make representations was the cause of the delay in continuing the construction of the pipeline. The delay came about because the previous Government considered that in view of the low wool prices and the failure of wheat crops, and the effect of these things on rural industry at the time, it would not be economical to spend Commonwealth money by assisting South Australia in continuing this pipeline. This Government recognised the problem. Since it has been in office wool prices have increased considerably. The Government realised that the farmers in Kimba need water not only for their sheep, cattle and other stock but also for domestic purposes. 
In this dry arid area there is a very high rate of evaporation during the heat of summer and water supplies are essential. No underground water supplies are available, except those recently discovered in the Polda sub-artesian area. Apart from those underground supplies the people in that area nave to rely on the water that has come from other parts of the Eyre Peninsula. The provision of this S2.1m to South Australia will assist the State Government to complete this pipeline. Actually, the State Labor Government almost completed it without assistance from the Commonwealth. I understand that about 69 miles of the trunk line already have been completed and only about 170 miles of distribution branch fines are needed to complete the scheme. This work is vitally important. Kimba, which is the main town to be serviced by the pipeline, has a population of 900 people and this scheme will be of enormous benefit to them. Of course, the Labor Party's policy on decentralisation is different from that of the previous Government. This pipeline will enable the people of Kimba who rely on farming to maintain their properties and even to improve them. I commend the Bill. It was long overdue, but we had to have a change of government to give these people a fair go. 
-Can the Minister for Primary Industry advise the Senate of the progress which has been made in devising a new wheat stabilisation plan? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Are there any plans for the development of the fishing industry in Australia? 
I ask the 
Minister for Customs and Excise: What action has the Government taken to prevent the importation of children's nightwear which is dangerous because of its flammability? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Can the Minister give any information about the evacuation of school cadets from exercises in the Wilpena Pound area of South Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Following the announcement of the phasing out of the dairy bounty have any moves been made to determine, in consultation with the States, the best ways to aid industry reconstruction? 
I understand the Minister for Primary Industry recently held talks with the British Minister for Agriculture. Will the Minister for Primary Industry indicate whether the British Minister was able to give assurances of continuing markets for Australian products, particularly dried and fresh fruits, in the United Kingdom? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I understand that the Minister received an invitation to attend a meeting of canning fruit growers at Berri in South Australia tomorrow night. Can the Minister indicate whether he will be able to attend this meeting to hear the problems of fruit growers in the area? If not, will he undertake to consider submissions that might be made as a consequence of this meeting? 

 - Mr President, I have nothing further to add to my remarks. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In the Senate last week the Minister indicated that he hoped to be able to make a statement this week on the Government's intentions towards financial assistance for sectors of the fruit industry affected by recent budgetary decisions. Can the Minister indicate whether he is now in a position to make any statements in this regard? 
I am delighted to join with my colleagues on the Government side of the Senate in supporting the Budget that was presented in this chamber on 2 1 August by the Special Minister of State,  Senator Willesee.  At the same time I take the opportunity to condemn the amendment moved by  Senator Withers.  During the debate on the Budget hardly any honourable senator on the Opposition side has supported or even mentioned the amendment moved by  Senator Withers.  I do not blame them, of course, because it is riddled with inconsistencies and untruths. I hope to be able to convince honourable senators opposite that it is riddled with untruths. 
I intend to deal with only 3 items referred to in the Budget, two of which are referred to in the amendment moved by  Senator Withers.  By means of his amendment,  Senator Withers  wants the Senate to add these words at the end of  Senator Willesee  's motion: but the Senate is of the opinion that the Government has failed to honour its election promises in respect of defence, per capita grants to independent schools, pensioners . . . 
As the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  completely destroyed the weak argument put up by  Senator Withers  regarding defence, I will deal only with the other 2 matters. I will deal, firstly, with the Government's alleged failure to carry out its election promises regarding per capita grants to independent schools. Not one of the Opposition senators has tried to show where any Labor member of Parliament said prior to the election that a Labor government would continue per capita grants to independent schools indefinitely. In another debate  Senator McManus  referred to a meeting at Festival Hall in Melbourne at which, he alleged, the now Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  said that, if elected to office, they would continue the per capita grants. There are very grave doubts about whether either of those honourable gentlemen said what  Senator McManus  alleged they said. If this was said, it is a wonder that other honourable senators in the Opposition did not support him in his allegation or did not try to support  Senator Withers  in his amendment. 
But there is no doubt at all about what was said by the Prime Minister in the sensational election speech delivered at the Blacktown Civic Centre on 13 November 1972. The contents of that speech have been printed and reprinted in every national and State newspaper in the Commonwealth. For the information of Opposition senators and so that when a vote is taken on this issue they will vote either for the truth of what was said in the election speech delivered by the Prime Minister or for what is alleged by  Senator McManus  to have been said, I shall read to the Senate what the Prime Minister said. When dealing with education at that meeting the present Prime Minister said: 
It is our basic proposition that the people are entitled to know. It is our basic belief that the people will respond to national needs once they know those needs. It is in educationthe needs of our schools- that we will give prime expression to that proposition and that belief. 
The most rapidly growing sector of public spending under a Labor Government will be education. Education should be the great instrument for the promotion of equality. Under the Liberals it has become a weapon for perpetuating inequality and promoting privilege. For example, the pupils of State and Catholic schools have had less than half as good an opportunity as the pupils of non-Catholic independent schools to gain Commonwealth secondary scholarships, and very much less than half the opportunity of completing their secondary education. 
The Labor Party is determined that every child who embarks on secondary education in 1973 shall, irrespective of school or location, have as good an opportunity as any other child of completing his secondary education and continuing his education further. The Labor Party believes that the Commonwealth should give most assistance to those schools, primary and secondary, whose pupils need most assistance. 
The Prime Minister then went on to deal with how a Labor government would set up a schools commission to conduct a full inquiry and investigation into the needs of independent and public schools. Summing up the points he had made on this subject in his election speech, the Prime Minister said: 
A Federal Labor Government will: 
Continue all grants under Commonwealth legislation throughout 1973; 
Remove the ceiling imposed by Commonwealth legislation on grants in 1 974 and subsequent years; 
Allocate the increased grants for 1974 and subsequent years on the basis of recommendations prepared and published by the Schools Commission which will include persons familiar with and representative of the State departments, the Catholic system and the teaching profession. 
-This is the election policy speech of the present Prime Minister delivered in November of last year. It is completely contrary to and completely destroys the allegations which were made by  Senator McManus  and on which other Opposition senators have been completely silent. 
-It says that all grants will continue throughout 1973, not after 1973. The present Government has introduced this program because it is well aware of the fact that children in very densely populated suburbs are at a distinct disadvantage compared with those attending privileged independent schools. The Labor Government sees this as a high priority, and that is why it has increased Commonwealth expenditure on education in the Budget. The Budget provides $843m for education in 1973-74, which is a increase of $404m or 92 per cent over expenditure on education last year. There will be a further substantial rise in expenditure on education in 1974-75, and further programs will be introduced during 1974. 
The Labor Government has completely honoured its election policy regarding education. After being in office for only a few days the Government set up the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission to inquire into schools throughout Australia. I have always held the view that the standard of education in Australia declined very significantly during the last 27 years when the previous Government was in office. I make no reflections on school teachers because I am fully aware of the fact that with increased enrolments, and particularly with an influx of migrant children who have very little knowledge of English, the problem facing school teachers has become a lot harder every year. I have gained this knowledge from speaking to young students in secondary schools. I believe that a pupil in the second year of secondary school today has knowledge about equal to that of a seventh grade primary school student of 27 years ago. 
-Senator Little says that it is a sweeping statement, but my statement is fortified by other surveys that have been conducted throughout Australia- some very recently. I refer to an article in the 'Australian' of Thursday, 30 August of this year. Under the heading 'Teenagers fail at reading' it states: 
Some teenage students at a Victorian technical college have the reading ability of seven-year-old children, and two read so poorly that they are technically unable to read at all. 
A survey of first and second year students at the Shepparton Technical College shows that only 30 per cent can read well enough to handle schoolwork above the primary school level. 
Another survey, of schools around the area, indicates that about 1300 local primary and secondary school students have learning difficulties. 
In the second form, where the average age was 13, 47 of the 1 59 students could read at or above their age grouping. 
Another 7 1 could read only as well as children aged 10 to 12, and the rest could not read as well as most nine-year-olds. 
In the first form, 38 of the 146 students were above the average reading ability of 12-year-olds, 59 had a reading ability of a child of 10 to 12, 24 read only as well as a child aged nine to 10, and 23 had the reading ability of a child of seven to eight and a half. 
Two first form students did not register on the survey at all, as their score was below the test level. 
If  Senator Little  wants more proof - 
I have given  Senator Jessop  the answer. The Government is to spend over $400 m more than was spent by the previous Government last year in order to try to overcome this problem where the education of school children is declining. An article in the 'National Times' of 17 September 1973- only yesterday- under the heading 'Poor children get a poorer education, Western Australian survey shows' states: 
A massive effort will be needed to correct grave educational injustices in Australian schools, judging from a survey recently completed among West Australian children. 
The survey, carried out by the State Teachers' Union, found that children from poor suburbs were severely handicapped in learning skills, compared with those in wealthier areas. In one school in an industrial suburb of Perth, 80 per cent of the children were more than a year behind in reading ability. 
At that school, among 80 Grade 7 children (who would be moving on to high school the following year) only nine had average reading ability. The remainder were often grossly handicapped in reading skills- the average rate of retardation was 3.5 years. 
Among another group of children in the same grade, but in a suburb of more fortunate parents, only 7 per cent suffered reading retardation of a year or more. But even in more prosperous suburbs like this, the survey found there was a need for an extra teacher in each school to help children who were behind. Help on a much greater scale was needed in schools in poorer areas. 
Surely those surveys, together with the survey of the Interim Committee headed by Professor Karmel, have all reached the same conclusion, that a lot more money is needed for education in Australia. The present Government recognises the plight of the States which are faced with increasing costs for education and which cannot meet the requirements. I venture to say that most States will be happy to see that at last a sympathetic Labor Government is increasing payments so that children in our schools can and will receive equal education. 
The other matter which  Senator Withers  mentioned was the Government's failure to carry out its election promises in respect of pensioners. I am a bit loath to show up even the members of the Opposition here in the Budget debate, particularly when we have just heard the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  read a second reading speech on the Repatriation Bill and  Senator Douglas  McClelland, in his capacity as the Minister in this chamber representing the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  introduce another Social Services Bill to give further increases to the pensioners of this country. 
Prior to the last election the Prime Minister told the Australian people that if a Labor Government were elected he would give an immediate increase of $1.50 a week to pensioners and then would give an increase of $1.50 a week every spring and autumn until the pension rate reached at least 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Government has been in office now for only 9 months and it has increased all pensions- not only the standard rate of pension, but also the married rate pension, the invalid pension, the widows' pension and all other pensions- by at least $3 a week. An increase of $3 a week represents an increase of 1 7.39 per cent over the previous rate which was increased last October by the former Government. Even if inflation is increasing, those who exaggerate the most would not attempt to say that inflation has increased by more than 8 per cent or 9 per cent. So in the 9 months that the 
Labor Government has been in office the married rate of pension has increased by over 1 7 per cent. 
I was pleased to hear the interjection by the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  because what he said is borne out by figures showing the rate of pension increases during the reign of the last coalition Government. I believe it is worth reflecting on the comparison between the very generous increases that have been introduced by the Labor Government and the miserly adjustments that were made during the 23 agonising years of the last Government. I wish to refer to a table showing the pension increases that were made by the previous Government and I shall later seek leave to have this table incorporated in Hansard. But before doing so I would like to read some of the figures contained in the table. A table headed 'Age and Invalid Pension Increases' shows that in 1949 the maximum married rate of pension - 
I direct a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Press reports over the last few days have suggested that in some areas a shortage of foodstuffs has developed and it is necessary to obtain requirements from overseas. In view of these circumstances, does the Minister feel that these goods should be subjected to protective rates of duty? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. With the likelihood of the butter-vegetable spread 'Butterine' being marketed in the near future, what steps has the Minister taken to ensure that the patent rights to this product are retained by the dairying industry? 
I had intended to speak prior to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  rising. I wish to refer to 2 matters which  Senator Carrick  mentioned. He has now left the chamber but possibly he is listening to the debate in his office. As  Senator Brown  pointed out I believe that this debate was on a very high level until  Senator Carrick  entered it. He immediately went out of his way to provoke government senators. He insinuated or accused the Ministers of wanting to change the hours of sittings only so that they could attend their commitments outside this chamber. I know that  Senator Cavanagh  is too modest to take up the accusation made by  Senator Carrick.  I profess to have a greater knowledge of the Ministers on the 
Government side of the Senate than  Senator Carrick  has. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Order! In accordance with the resolution of the Senate, the sitting is suspended until 8 p.m. 
Sitting suspended from 4.30 to 8 p.m. 

 -When Senator Carrick was referring to Ministers he implied that they wanted the hours altered for their convenience so that they would be able to attend functions outside the House. He believed that they had a prior obligation to attend the sittings of the Senate. I assume that he was referring only to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  Two other Ministers are convalescing after an illness and another is overseas. During the first session of this Parliament the 3 Ministers concerned were at all times while the Senate was sitting either in chamber or elsewhere in Parliament House itself. So there can be no suggestion that the intention of altering the hours is to suit the convenience of the Ministers. 
The changing of sitting hours is nothing new. During the 4 years that I have been a member of the Senate the previous Government changed the hours on many occasions. It not only changed the hours but also changed the sitting days and the cycle that the Senate sat. It even tried sitting 4 days a week for 2 weeks and then have a week's recess in lieu of the cycle of 3 weeks on and one week off. The purpose behind  Senator Murphy's  moving for the new times of sitting for the Senate is to try a ,set of hours which has not been tried before. I have no doubt that if these hours are tried and it is found that the business of the Senate is not being disposed of there would be a reconsideration of the hours. I am certain that the Government will give full consideration to any change of hours which is in the best interests of the Senate 's getting through the legislation on the notice paper. The only other matter I wish to mention is that 2 senators on the Opposition side said that, by changing the hours to the hours proposed in the motion by  Senator Murphy,  the dinner break would last for only one hour. I cannot see anything unusual about having only one hour of a dinner break. After the dinner break on Tuesdays and Thursdays there would be no further sittings of the Senate and honourable senators would have the whole of the evening at their disposal. 
That is another good suggestion. The committees are getting well behind with some of the matters that have been referred to them by the Senate. I think time should be made available so that the committees can discuss and investigate matters that have been referred to them not only by petitions but also by decisions of the Senate. 
A dinner break of one hour is a lot longer than some employees in industry have, particularly employees who are on continuous shift work. They have a dinner break of only 20 minutes. Should there be any problem about the dining room staff not being able to meet the demand for a late dinner adjournment, I am sure arrangements could be made so that there would be no disruption, that no senator would be deprived of the full period for the meal break, and that he would have an adequate meal. I do not intend to delay this motion any longer because it is obvious that it will be carried- and it is very important that we should carry it to give the proposed new hours a trial, to see how they work, and that we get on with the business which is now on the notice paper. 
I oppose the amendment as moved by  Senator Greenwood.  It is a repetition of an amendment which was inserted in a previous clause and in fact is taken word for word from the existing Act. I believe that the words 'it is not in the public interest that the memorandum should be certified ' are too vague. Qualifying them by the words 'a major detriment' then establishes where a commissioner would have the responsibility for something that could be regarded as trivial- and this has happenedand for something which was really a major detriment. Last week when we were dealing with another clause  Senator Cavanagh  referred to what could happen in the event of the parties having an agreement signed. I think he referred to the Tramways Trust, saying that it could be argued that improved conditions, and probably higher wages, would mean that fares could go up. I can relate the circumstances of a case that did happen and where as a result of the vagueness of the provision of the existing Act a Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator refused an application for improved conditions under the Commonwealth Railways Determination. A reading of the transcript of evidence put forward by the advocates for the union and that put forward by the advocates for the Commonwealth Railways made it very obvious that the decision was not consistent with the evidence given by the witnesses who were called. However, when the union appealed to the Commonwealth Industrial Court, the Court said it was not in the public interest for the Arbitrator to give this increased benefit of working conditions which were actually enjoyed by every other comparable industry in the Commonwealth. 
The Court did not explain why it was not in the public interest beyond the vague suggestion that it could have resulted in increased freight rates and passenger fares charged by the Commonwealth Railways. In my opinion it would be giving a let-out to any Arbitration Commissioner to say that it may not be in the public interest. I think that the amendment moved by  Senator Cavanagh  certainly improves the existing section of the Act; it has that advantage over the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood  in that it would be a better guide to a commissioner who has to make a decision. I strongly support the amendment proposed by  Senator Cavanagh. 
I ask the Minister for the Media: In view of the importance of the Government's policies in relation to Asia, does Radio Australia have an officer based in Canberra? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister discussed with the Treasurer the possible effect on the wine industry, particularly locally owned or proprietary wineries, of the abolition of section 3 1a applying to trading valuations? Will the Minister ask the Treasurer for an assurance that should any wineries be adversely affected, each case will be reviewed to ensure that the financial viability of the industry is maintained? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that average male weekly earnings for the quarter ending December 1972 were $104.10 a week and that average male weekly earnings for the quarter ending June 1973 increased to $107.70 a week? Does the Minister agree that the standard rate of pension was $20 a week in December last year, representing 19.2 per cent of the average male weekly earnings for that period, whereas the current standard rate of pension, at $23 a week, is 21.3 per cent of the average male weekly earnings for the June quarter of this year? Is the Minister confident that the Government will fulfil an election promise to increase the standard rate of pension to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings during the term of this Government? 
-Surely the objections raised by the honourable senator at that time and emphasised more clearly by  Senator Wright  when he took the example of a top public servant on $20,000 per annum and multiplied it by 30 to ascertain what his dependant would receive by way of compensation, have been rectified in the amendments moved by  Senator Bishop. 
The compensation has been reduced to a maximum of two and a half times the average weekly earnings which, at the present time, would amount to only something like $250 a week. In my view, that vastly improves the provision and meets the objections raised by  Senator Byrne  when we were discussing this matter previously. When  Senator James  McClelland spoke on the Bill he expressed certain doubts. He was very concerned that the purpose of the tactics adopted by the Opposition at the time was completely and entirely to defer the Bill indefinitely so that the employees of the Commonwealth would never receive the benefits proposed. During his contribution to the debate on Friday, 1 June 1973  Senator James  McClelland said: 
Despite his histrionics I suggest that this debate should not be on the merits of the Bill now before us but on the merits of the proposition that consideration of it by the Senate should be postponed indefinitely. I said 'indefinitely' advisedly. I will support these remarks fully in the course of what I have to say. 

 Senator James McClelland went rn to say how he believed that  Senator Wright  and  Senator Byrne  were really making reference to hypothetical cases because they were picking out isolated instances of Commonwealth Government employees in top salaried positions where the prospects of their being totally and per.manetly incapacited would be very unlikely. Neither of these honourable senators could quote any specific cases. I think  Senator Wright  named somebody who was about 30 years of age. After inquiries were made it was found that nobody 30 years of age in the Commonwealth Public Service was in the top salary bracket receiving $25,000 or $30,000 a year. The fact that these cases are being put forward and used as a smokescreen to defer compensation payments to 300,000 odd Government employees is that the Opposition is deliberately trying to defer the consideration of this Bill so that its provisions will not be implemented during the lifetime of the present Government. For that reason I strongly oppose  Senator Wright's  motion that we report progress because I fear that if we do, the same thing will hapen in the autumn session next year and again in the Budget session next year. The Opposition has no intention of giving to employees of the Commonwealth these benefits which already are being enjoyed by all employees in South Australia. It is for that reason that I think we should continue to debate the amendments moved by  Senator Bishop  and put them to the vote. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Repatriation. What has been the effect of the Government's decision to provide medical treatment in repatriation hospitals for Boer War and World War I veterans on the level of admissions to these hospitals and the availability of beds? 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of the uncomfortable conditions for transit passengers at Tullamarine due to the lack of air conditioning? Can he say whether, and when, air conditioning will be installed in the building? 
I ask the Minister for Repatriation whether his attention has been drawn to recent statements in the Press by the representative of an ex-service action group claiming that the Government was pension cutting as a money saving device and alleging that all was not well in the Repatriation Department. Has the Minister investigated these claims? Is he in a position to answer them? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. What plans, if any, have been made for improvements of broadcasting reception in the Nhulunbuy/ Yirrkala area of the Northern Territory? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. Has the Minister heard rumours to the effect that the Australian Broadcasting Commission in South Australia might, be cutting back the local content in its country radio services on 5PA and 5MG? If so, can the Minister say whether there is any basis in fact for these reports? 
I am very pleased to be able to support the Bill, which has been introduced into the Senate for the second time. I am more pleased that the Bill did not need any amendments. The Government has been criticised by the Opposition because the Bill has been introduced without amendment. At the same time the Opposition condemned the Government because a previous Bill, the Trade Practices Bill, was reintroduced with 109 amendments. If we amend a Bill which has been previously introduced we are condemned by the Opposition, and if we do not amend such a Bill we are still criticised. 
-We can never please the Opposition. We have probably heard the last speech that  Senator Little  will make in this chamber. He did not add anything to what he said in December last year. He only repeated wrong calculations of what the low income earner would pay under the Government's proposed national health scheme. I will now quote some figures. They are the facts. I will show what will be paid under the proposed 1.35 per cent levy, compared with the minimum amount which a contributor now pays to any of the voluntary medical and health funds. The 1.35 per cent levy on an income of $6,000 a year, if one allows deductions from that income of only $ 1 ,000, which would leave a taxable income of $5,000 a year, would be equal to $65.50 a year. An income of $6,000 a year would be equal to earnings of approximately $120 a week. According to the last quarterly figures, this is more than the average weekly earnings in Australia. When we take into account that only 40 per cent of the people of Australia- that is, the wage earner or the income earner- earn the average weekly earnings and the remainder earn less than the average weekly earnings, we can see that a large percentage of people in Australia will pay far less in health insurance under the proposal put up by the Government than they do under the scheme in operation at the moment. Weekly earnings of $ 120 represent a total yearly income of $6,000. A person earning that amount would pay under the new scheme $65.50 per annum, instead of $92 per annum which is the smallest amount for which one can obtain health insurance at the moment under any medical or hospital scheme in the Commonwealth. A person would have to be earning something like $9,000 a year before he would pay in the vicinity of $92 for health insurance based on the 1.35 per cent levy. Fewer than 10 per cent of income earners in Australia receive a yearly income of $9,000. So that disproves the point on which  Senator Little  tried to fool the people here tonight. He talked about low income earners and mentioned an income of $45 a week. He knows very well that the minimum wage is $61 a week. He is talking rubbish when he speaks about people receiving $45 a week and what they would pay under the new scheme. He knows very well that they would be covered under the subsidised health care scheme. He knows that no one would be receiving less than the basic wage or the minimum living wage. He has seen that in the White Paper put out by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden). Senator Little  is only trying to fool the Senate by quoting false figures that he knows will be corrected in this place. 

 Senator Little also criticised national health schemes in other countries. Let us look at the scheme in the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has had a national health scheme for something like 30 years. I have met hundreds of people from the United Kingdom who have come out here. They have lived with the Australian National Health Act, with all its complexities and everything that is associated with it. They also know the benefits of the national health scheme which operates in the country from which they came. I have never met one migrant from the United Kingdom who has criticised the scheme which operates in that country. If that scheme is as bad as  Senator Little  tries to make us believe it is, it is a wonder that when there has been a change of government in the United Kingdom- there have been many changes of government over the last 30 yearsthe Conservatives, as one of their first actions when elected to Government, did not change the national health scheme to some system that they support. But the scheme in the United Kingdom has remained unchanged for more than 30 years. The situation applying there is completely different from that applying under our National Health Act which was introduced in 1951 and has been changed on many occasions. It has to be changed every time the doctors put up their fees or the hospitals put up their charges or when contributors to health insurance funds are required to increase their voluntary contributions in order to make up the leeway. Of course, it does not matter what type of health insurance scheme we have because eventually it is the taxpayer who pays. Whether he pays it by means of a levy or whether he pays it voluntarly into some medical or hospital fund, he is the one who eventually pays for the scheme. So it is not the amount that he pays that we are concerned about, because the figures I have quoted clearly prove that the amount paid under the 1.35 per cent levy would be far less than that paid by 70 per cent or 80 per cent of contributors under the existing scheme. It is the quality of health care that is of most importance. No doubt this will be improved when we have one health insurance scheme and all contributors belong to that one scheme. Both medical and hospital care will be greatly improved by having one scheme. 
If the honourable senator wants to read nonsense he would do well to read the Hansard report of the debate that took place in December of last year. On that occasion  Senator Jessop  spoke on this Bill. As a matter of fact, only 2 opposition senators from the Liberal Party spoke on this legislation on that occasion. Yet  Senator Rae  had the audacity to say on 2 occasions tonight- once before the dinner suspension and again after the dinner suspension- that the Health Insurance Bill was discredited during the debate last year. The Bill was not discredited, particularly by Liberal senators opposite, because only two of them spoke on that occasion. They were  Senator Rae  and  Senator Jessop.  The other 2 speakers from the Opposition side were  Senator Webster  and  Senator Little. 
During the previous debate Opposition senators raised the objection that Labor was introducing a compulsory scheme to which everybody had to contribute and that therefore everybody would have the same coverage under the scheme. The reason the Government puts forward this proposal, of course, is that under the existing National Health Act only 87 per cent of our population has medical and hospital insurance coverage; the other 13 per cent, representing 1.5 million people, is not covered. Opposition senators must surely agree that any health insurance scheme that does not cover such a high percentage of the population of the Commonwealth has some faults which should be rectified. It is the purpose of the Bill that we have introduced to rectify the anomalies that exist in the present National Health Act. 
Another problem caused by the present Act is the complex manner in which a contributor gets a refund of his medical expenses. First of all he makes an appointment with his local general practitioner. After the consultation he receives an account. He goes to the doctor, pays the account and gets a receipt. He takes the receipt to his health insurance fund where he is required to fill in a very complicated form which contains a host of questions. He then submits his contribution card, together with the receipt from the general practitioner, to the fund. Later on he will have posted to him a cheque for the amount of his refund. So all of these actions have to take place before the contributor, having paid his contribution in advance, can get a refund of the expense incurred following a visit to a doctor or a stay in hospital. 
All of this nonsense, of course, will be overcome under the provisions of the Bill that has been presented to the Senate. The Bill has been passed with a big majority in another place on 2 occasions. Surely honourable senators opposite would not have the audacity to criticise a Bill which is introduced following long consideration by two of the most eminent doctors in Australia. These doctors were asked to prepare a report on a national health scheme. So this Bill was given a great deal of consideration before it was introduced. The scheme was carefully thought out and the plan was fostered so that the benefits would go to those who could least afford to pay. We are not concerned - 
Debate interrupted. 
-It has been said in the Senate on one or two occasions tonight that the Australian Government did not have a mandate to introduce the legislation that we are now debating. I remind Opposition senators of the policy speech of the present Prime 
Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  delivered on 13 November 1972. When referring to health, he said: 
The most notorious single instance of unequal sharing of burdens is the Liberals ' health insurance system. 
I personally find quite unacceptable a system whereby the man who drives my Commonwealth car in Sydney pays twice as much for the same family cover as I have, not despite the fact that my income is 4 or 5 times higher than his, but precisely because of my higher income. 
Health Insurance 
A Federal Labor Government will introduce a universal health insurance scheme. It will be administered by a single Health Fund. Contributions will be paid according to taxable income. An estimated 350,000 Australian families will pay nothing. 
These are the families with an income of only $45 a week to which  Senator Little  referred in his remarks. The income earners of such families must be working for newsagents if they are receiving such low incomes. The Prime Minister went on to state in his policy speech: 
Four out of five will pay less than their contributions to the existing scheme. Hospital care will be paid for completely by the Fund in whatever ward the patient's doctor advises. The Fund will pay the full cost of medical treatment if doctors choose to bill the Fund directly, or refund 85 per cent of fees if the patient pays those fees himself. 
The policy speech went on to refer to the Nimmo report which was mentioned by  Senator Mulvihill  tonight. There is no doubt that in December 1972 this was a vital issue for the people of Australia that decided the big swing to Labor. The health scheme was advertised in newspapers all over the Commonwealth. In South Australia, the State from which I come, the Australian Labor Party ran 3 full page advertisements on the national health scheme. The people of South Australia and the other States were well aware of the benefits in this scheme compared with those in the existing scheme which benefit only those on high incomes. If such people can afford to pay $150 a year to have the luxury of medical care in a private ward of a private hospital, they know that when they file their income tax returns, they will get back $80 of that $ 1 50. So all such people are paying is $70 to have the luxury of medical care and a private room in a private hospital. In this legislation, we overcome those anomalies and the advantages of the rich and equal out the position so that the poor receive equal benefits and the same opportunities as the rich. 
I ask the Postmaster-General whether it is intended to establish a Post Office courier service to operate in competition with privately owned courier services. 
-Has the Postmaster-General heard reports that the 4 country telephone directories for South Australia are to be amalgamated into one volume? Is there any truth in these reports? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. As the maintenance of an air service to Lord Howe Island remains the subject of continued speculation in the Press, can the Minister advise what action the Government has taken to overcome the situation that has developed? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration give an assurance that widows now eligible for retraining under the present training scheme for widow pensioners will not be disadvantaged by the proposals in the Government's retraining scheme which were detailed by the Minister for Labor and Immigration yesterday? 
-The Postmaster-General may have seen a report in the weekend Press stating that there is a heavy demand for car telephones. Can the Minister give an indication of what steps are being taken by his Department to improve this service? 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs any information in relation to the Press statements that Australia will be supplying troops to Cyprus? 
I ask the Postmaster-General: Has the Post Office considered the need to provide equipment for the telecommunications system which will enable telephone subscribers to obtain a record of subscriber trunk dialling calls which are made? 
-Can the Postmaster-General give any details regarding mail and telecommunications services between Australia and Greece, Turkey and Cyprus? 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  referred to our friend and colleague,  Senator Withers.  I think  Senator Withers  is a very lucky man to have the benefit of having had the opportunity to talk to his father and learn some of the antics of the Australian Labor Party. He knew his dad. From listening to the supporters of the present Government speaking on this Bill today one would gain the impression that they believe that they have a monopoly or concern for democracy. I can assure all honourable senators and members that this is not so, and that the LiberalCountry Party coalition Opposition feels just as strongly about what must be preserved in the interests of democracy as does any other member of this Parliament. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  glibly repeats the phrase 'one vote one value '. To me one vote one value means just that. But the moment the Minister refers to a 10 per cent variation, that is the end of one vote one value. He cannot have it every way. If we are to have one vote one value, that is it. On 13 March 1973 the Minister said: 
Exact equality in the number of electors per division cannot be achieved, nor is it desirable. 
That conflicts completely with the many speeches that we have heard him make in this place since unfortunately he was elevated to the Ministry and given the portfolio which is responsible for electoral matters. It is a hollow cry. 
Frequently members in this Parliament allude to the 1968 redistribution. I speak as the member for Griffith, which is on the southern side of the Brisbane River. My electorate was given a greater percentage loading than any other electorate in Australia. Figures supplied by the Minister indicate that there was a loading of 16.08 per cent in the electorate of Griffith. The reason that was done was that the population in parts of my electorate in the South Brisbane area in Griffith is fast diminishing. One of the reasons why we have had this 20 per cent variation in the quota is to allow for changes in the population in electorates. 
The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  this morning referred to the fact that his electorate has 6,000 more voters than does the electorate of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  who is the Minister responsible for this legislation. In 1968 the electorate of Grayndler exceeded the quota by more than 14 per cent. But the electorate of Grayndler, like the electorate of Griffith, has gone through a phase of dying in numbers of voters. 
The preservation of our democracy is possibly the greatest responsibility which lies in the hands of the members of the Parliament. For threequarters of a century this nation has survived as one of the minority of countries throughout the world which have not suffered from upheaval as a result of revolution or an attempt at armed overthrow of the Government. We are regarded as one of the stable nations of the world because all previous governments in this country have respected our democratic institution, our electoral boundaries and our electoral system. 
Redistributions have taken place in 1912, 1922, 1934, 1948, 1955 and 1968. But the Minister for Services and Property is proposing in this present legislation that the people of Australia be subjected to a redistribution every few months as population changes come about. My friend, the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric 
Robinson), who is from the Gold Coast of Queensland, represents an electorate which in number of voters is fast approaching the 100,000 mark. This increase in the number of voters has come about because of the growth that is taking place in his electorate; it has not come about because of some gerrymander by the LiberalCountry Party coalition in 1968. It has come about because so many people have moved out of the electorate of Grayndler and have gone to live in McPherson because they know that they will be better represented. Furthermore, if the Minister is successful in having this legislation approved by the Joint Sitting he will immediately look at the 1972 election results; he will look at the electorate of Bowman and at all of those other electorates which Labor is just holding by a whisker, and he will suddenly start bolstering those electorates which need attention so that when the onslaught comes from the Australian people at the next election those people who represent these electorates will have a greater chance of continuing in office. It is for this reason and this reason alone that this legislation has been put to the Joint Sitting. The Labor Government is keen to see this legislation approved by the Joint Sitting so that it can manipulate the electoral boundaries for its own electoral gain. 
A claim that past elections have been unfair cannot be substantiated. There have been 11 elections since 1949, and in 10 out of 1 1 cases the Government of the day has gained a greater percentage of the vote than has the Opposition. 
-Say that again. 
-Government supporters say 'Nonsense' and 'Rubbish'. It is obvious that Government supporters today are voting like mushrooms; they have been kept in the dark and they do not know the historical facts. In 1949 the then Liberal-Country Party coalition beat the Labor Party by  21/2  per cent of the vote; in 1 95 1 , by 2 per cent; and in 1 954,I admit, the Australian Labor Party beat our vote by 4 per cent. (Government supporters interjecting)- 
All right, Government supporters think they are smart because they have drawn my attention to an error. But that happened under the Calwell ALP redistribution of 1948. That was not a gerrymander by the Liberal-Country Party coalition. In 1955 members of the present Opposition, when in government, beat the Labor Party by 2 per cent, in 1958 by 12 percent, in 1961 by 2  Yi  per cent, in 1 963 by 7 per cent, in 1 966 by 1 7 per cent, and in 1969 by 2 per cent. In 1972 the Labor Party beat the Government of the day by approximately 3 per cent. In 1974 the Australian Labor Parry's vote slipped back and it beat us by 2.3 per cent. Democracy will never be perfect. That the ALP gained power in 1972 with 49.71 per cent of the vote and held power in 1974 with 49.3 per cent of the vote indicates that the system is not as the Government attempts to make it out to be and is not loaded against the ALP Government as it would like the people to believe. 
After an electoral Bill leaves the Parliament the main responsibility is in the hands of the Commissioners. I believe that the Chief Electoral Officer and the Electoral Officers in each State have shown, by the results in the past 2  lh  decades, that they have been men who have taken notice of the need to preserve our democracy. If we send our democracy down the drain we are losing everything in this country. I have also discovered lately a well-concealed and connived plan by the Minister. In the not too distant future he intends to change the Electoral Act to alter the requirement that the Surveyor-General of each State be appointed as a redistribution commissioner so that a registered surveyor may be appointed. I shall tell the Joint Sitting the name of one man who is a registered surveyor in Queensland- none other than the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Clem Jones. Can you imagine what he will do to me in Griffith if the Minister gives him one of the jobs for the boys and makes him one of the redistribution commissioners? He will do to me what I did to him at the last election. 
I would remind the Joint Sitting that Labor has had one change in redistribution, and that was in Western Australia. It needed only 11 more votes in one seat in that State, as my friend the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  can confirm, and it would have won 60 per cent of the seats on 46 per cent of the State vote. In summary, the Minister is trying to impose on this country a system which is not in use in any other country. All other countries- France, the United States, Canada and others- have a special loading. I remind the Joint Sitting of the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when speaking to an electoral Bill on 2 June 1 955. He said: 
That principle is to ensure that every electorate shall have approximately the same number of electors, so that the votes of all of the electors shall be equal in value. At least, the numbers should be approximately equal, within the perfectly reasonable latitude of 20 per cent above or below the quota as allowed by the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
Professor David Butler of Oxford University in a book called 'The Canberra Model' said: 
Redistribution excites a lot of innuendo but by world standards, or even by some state standards, federal gerrymandering has been negligible; even with a country leading . . . 
Overseas political students who come to our country have stated that Australia is a fair, honest and open country so far as the drawings of the boundaries of Federal electorates are concerned. In essence, that preserves the democracy which allows the honourable member for Grayndler, with all his weaknesses, to come into this place and to promote and propose legislation which is to the detriment of the people. 
My electorate is a city electorate. Having listened to Government supporters today one would think that members of the Labor Party, the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party who represent far-flung corners of this great nation have no special problems. I can assure members, as one who has travelled extensively throughout Australia, that country members, regardless of their political affiliation, have special difficulties which members who represent city electorates do not share. 
The Minister for Services and Property might look at his watch; that is all he cares about. But I am speaking about the people in Queensland and people in far-flung areas. In conclusion I sincerely hope that, when this legislation has passed this Parliament and finally goes to the Electoral Commissioners to be implemented in the redistribution of the electoral boundaries of this nation, they recognise the tremendous need to preserve the democracy which we have followed for three-quarters of a century under both nonLabor and Labor governments. I thank the House. 
That the proposed law, namely the Commonwealth Electoral Act (No. 2) 1973, be affirmed. 
Pursuant to rule 1 1 the Joint Sitting will divide. Ring the bells. 
Question put. 
The Joint Sitting divided. (The  Chairman- Hon.  J. F. Cope) 
I support the Bill for the reasons that have been put forward by  Senator Button  but not for the reasons that we have just heard from  Senator Hall.  Perhaps  Senator Hall  realises that it is very doubtful that this Bill will pass the second reading stage and therefore his amendments will not be debated at the Committee stage. This is the third occasion on which we have heard the same arguments from the Opposition in this chamber. They have not been added to very much by the new senators who came into the Senate after the last election and they certainly would not convince anybody that there ought not to be a change in the existing provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. If one checks the number of amalgamations that have taken place in Australia since the previous Government amended the amalgamations provisions in the Act one will find that there have been very few. This shows that the restrictions in the Act at present make it practically impossible for any unions to amalgamate. 
I would like to give an example of a union that has a diversification of members scattered in outlying areas and covering many industries. It would not be possible for the Australian Workers Union ever to get 50 per cent of its members voting in a ballot whether it were for an amalgamation or for official positions in the union. The highest percentage that has ever been recorded in a ballot in the history of the Australian Workers Union is 42 per cent. On that occasion very intensive campaigning was carried out by both sides. So under the provisions of the existing Act there would never have been any amalgamations within the Australian Workers Union. 
I believe that the Government is sincere in trying to make amalgamations easier than they are now. The excessive number of unions is no doubt one of the problems affecting industrial relations in Australia. There has been a slight decline in the numbers of unions in Australia. In 1 956 there were 375 unions. In 1972 there were 305 unions. I understand that by the end of last year there were something like 294 unions. Of these unions 158 had fewer than 1,000 members; 82 had between 1,000 and 5,000 members; 28 had between 5,000 and 20,000 members; 23 had between 20,000 and 50,000 members; and only 14 had a membership of over 50,000. In a population of only 13.5 million, where we have something like 5.5 million workers in industry and where about 51 per cent of those 5.5 million workers are members of organisations, it seems to me to be ridiculous to have nearly 300 unions covering only about  2Vi  million members. This situation is completely different in other advanced countries like West Germany where about 1 6 unions cover millions of workers. 
This Bill will make the amalgamations of the unions much easier. Surely the unions themselves want it this way. The officials of the unions want it this way, and I am certain that a lot of employers in industry want it this way. But we see the legislation obstructed from time to time by the Opposition in the Senate. In the PostmasterGeneral's Department there are 28 unions involved. Workers at the Sydney Mail Exchange are covered by no fewer than 20 unions. The work force of Trans- Australia Airlines is covered by no fewer than 26 unions. The men and women employed by the Commonwealth Railways belong to 14 unions. The fragmentation of union resources, in terms of staff, finance and facilities, imposes limitations on the unions and makes the effectiveness of a union very limited. The resources for research by the unions is limited where each small union has to have an industrial officer and a research officer doing exactly the same work as others in small unions are doing to try to compete with the rising cost of living and to keep the working conditions of the members of the union up to a standard that is accepted by the trade union movement. 
The fragmentation of unions leads to an almost impossible position if they are dealing with a well organised employer group or a major company. Let us take the example of employees of a multi-national corporation. The Australian employees of such a corporation might well belong to only 6 or more organisations. I have not heard Opposition senators mention the amalgamation of the Chamber of Manufactures and the Chamber of Commerce. For reasons of convenience they called it a merger. No ballot was taken. Even if the Employers Federation in South Australia wanted to join the Chamber of Manufactures no ballot would be required under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act or any other Act. We are trying to enforce restrictions on the trade union movement so that the amalgamations of unions are practically impossible and at the same time the employers and their organisations are given a free hand to amalgamate and merge without any inhibitions. 
The unions will not accept the provisions of section 158k subsection (2) of the existing Act. This Bill seeks to amend the existing provision requiring that 50 per cent of the members vote in any ballot and, provided that a majority of members cast a formal vote, the decision is taken on the majority of that vote. There is a distinct anomaly under the existing legislation. In a ballot of 49 per cent of members of a union all of whom had voted unanimously in favour of an amalgamation the amalgamation could not take place because it would need to be supported by 50 per cent of members. On the other hand, 50.5 per cent of the membership of an organisation could vote and only 26 per cent of them need vote in favour of the amalgamation and the amalgamation would automatically be approved by the Registrar. 
The Opposition has stated that if this legislation is passed amalgamations will be made easier. It has been proved in the last 2 years since the existing legislation has been in operation that the legislation is a complete failure. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, as I have pointed out, makes it unnecessarily difficult for unions to amalgamate. At present, for amalgamation proposals to be adopted, 2 conditions must be satisfied. One is that at least half of the members of the union must vote and the other is that more than half the formal vote must be in favour of amalgamation. As I stated earlier- in contrast to the amendments which have been introduced in this place for the third time- those conditions would no longer be necessary provided 50 per cent or a majority voted at a ballot in favour of the amalgamation. 
There is one other objectionable aspect of the existing legislation which is not accepted by the unions. The unions believe that they should have a right to determine the affairs of their own union, including the conduct of a ballot, the election of officers and any other issues which affect only members of the union. They should not be subject to rigid restrictions included in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act where this inherent right is taken away and referred to the Industrial Registrar. I believe that most unions, if not all, would have some provision in their rules and constitution for a ballot to be decided by the members. I refer to the 'Australian Workers Union Constitution and General Rules'. Rule 43 under the heading of 'Plebiscite' states: 
Convention or the Executive Council, when they deem fit, may take the opinion or financial members upon any question by submitting the same to a plebiscite. The arrangements for the taking of such plebiscite shall be such as to secure as large a vote as circumstances will admit, and each plebiscite taken shall be denoted in the advertisement and on the ballot papers by one of the letters printed on the voting slip attached to members ' tickets. 
Those provisions are contained in the rules for the Australian Workers Union already registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Those rules deal not only  with  balloting on amalgamations but also deal with every other aspect of union affairs. Opposition senators, of course, have very little knowledge and experience of the trade union movement. Very few honourable senators opposite have ever been members of a trade union organisation. The only knowledge they have regarding trade union affairs comes from the employers; the Press; or someone like  Senator Hall  who attended a meeting of the Transport Workers Union in Adelaide as a pimp and a spy, attending the meeting without the knowledge of the organisation. He had no right whatsoever to be sitting in at that meeting. He was there simply to listen to what was going on. He could not even do that. 
-Senator Cavanagh is quite right. It was a contemptible act.  His  action of sitting in at the meeting was contemptible enough but even more contemptible was that when he left the meeting he did not report what actually took place at the meeting.  Senator Hall's  report of the meeting was completely garbled because the person who reported to him apparently does not know how to write shorthand and he relied on his memory, which must be very bad. I may not have another opportunity during this debate to discuss  Senator Hall's  proposed amendments. Although  Senator Hall  has said that he will support the second reading of the Bill, he expects the Government to accept these amendments which, of course, it cannot accept.  Senator Hall  in his amendments, proposes to change clause 6 on pages 5 and 6 of the Bill by deleting subsections 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. These are the provisions in the Bill which give the right to unions to determine how they want to process an amalgamation- whether they want to conduct the amalgamation under their own rules, or whether they petition to refer the matter to the Registrar.  Senator Hall's  proposed amendment completely takes away the right of a union to conduct its own affairs by conducting a ballot for an amalgamation under the rules and constitution of the union. Surely no organisation, whether an employee organisation or an employer organisation, would hand over the inherent right and powers that they have in relation to the affairs of their own organisation to an outside body or to an industrial registrar unless petitioned by members. 
The other amendment proposed by  Senator Hall  deals with making a ballot compulsory. This is where  Senator Hall  showed his ignorance of trade union affairs and trade union ballots. It is absolutely impossible to get the ballot papersmat is the postal ballot papers- returned by members of an organisation who are scattered over a wide area. A trade union, such as the Australian Workers Union, has members at Mount Isa, members scattered within the pastoral industries, itinerant workers who follow the fruit picking industry and thousand of other members working on highways and working at quarries and mines etc. Probably 200 industries are covered by that union. Making it compulsory for union members to vote in a postal ballot would be an absolute waste of time. The imposition of a $5 penalty for those who do not vote is strongly opposed by the trade union movement. The Government does not accept that proposal. 
We believe that the members of a union take sufficient interest in the affairs of a union to decide themselves whether the amalgamation of a smaller union with a bigger union is beneficial for the whole membership. I believe that a decision to make a 50 per cent vote compulsory with a penalty of $5 for those who do not vote, would be abhorent to the trade union movement. I am certain that it would not be accepted by any members of the unions. I would like to read out a short passage from what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said when he delivered the Labor Party policy speech at Blacktown on 29 April this year. He said: 
The vast majority of Australian employees are members of unions or employee associations. The key to industrial efficiency is efficient employee organisation. Our opponents have obstructed our efforts to modernise and democratise Australian trade unions. There are too many unions in Australia. We have sought to reduce the number of unions. There are too many needless strikes in Australia: We have sought to remove the causes of needless strikes. In those efforts we have been opposed by our opponents in the Federal Parliament and have met with no co-operation from their confederates in the States. 
Responsible leadership of both unions and industry Strongly supports a reduction in the number of unions and of demarcation disputes between rival unions. Our legislation to help union amalgamation has been twice rejected by the Senate. 
Twice, in 2 elections, the people of Australia have been told of the industrial policies of the Australian Labor Party, particularly in respect of industrial disputes. We recognise and realise that some industrial disputes are caused by demarcation disputes between unions on the job.  Senator Hall  gave a good example when he referred to a dispute in South Australia between the Transport Workers Union and the Waterside Workers Federation over the handling of steel. If those 2 unions had been amalgamated that demarcation dispute would not have occurred. I know of unions which have been waiting months and months to amalgamate. They hoped that the Bill introduced by the Government would be accepted. They will not proceed with their amalgamation proposals until the existing legislation has been changed and made acceptable to the trade union movement. Therefore I strongly support the Bill that has been introduced and just as strongly oppose the futile and useless provisions put forward by  Senator Hall  in an effort to make union ballots compulsory while at the same time not doing anything regarding the amalgamation or merger of employer organisations. 

 Senator Hall suggested that voting in a trade union ballot for amalgamation was similar to voting in a Federal or State election. He said that the Australian Labor Party supported compulsory voting in elections for State and Federal Parliaments. However, he did not tell the Senate that under the Commonwealth Electoral Act it is compulsory for everybody to be registered- to have his name, address and occupation put on the electoral roll. Voting in State and Federal elections, where it is compulsory under the Commonwealth Electoral Act to be registered on the electoral roll, to have one's name, address and occupation on that roll, is quite different from voting in an election in the trade union movement where it is not compulsory to join a union. I, for one, would readily accept compulsory voting in the case of amalgamations in the trade union movement if the Opposition supported compulsory membership of a trade union by employees working in industry. That would be quite a different matter; the voice of the Opposition would be strongly opposed to any compulsion for employees to join an appropriate union. Therefore, in my belief it was irrelevant for  Senator Hall  to refer to the fact that the Australian Labor Party supports compulsory voting in elections for parliamentary office and the imposition of a fine on those who do not vote, when he suggested that it should be compulsory for members to vote in a trade union ballot for amalgamation. This Bill, as introduced, will ensure that the unions have this right and it will make it easier for them to amalgamate. 
Members of the Opposition would know from looking at ballots conducted within the trade union movement over the years that some ballots for official positions often create more interest than that which would be created by an amalgamation. Some such ballots have resulted in a percentage vote as low as 15 per cent. I have seen the percentage as low as 10 per cent- nearly as bad as that in the municipal elections that took place in Sydney last Saturday. 
-Even worse than that. Some trade unions are not able to attract the same miserable vote as was attracted at the municipal elections in Sydney last Saturday, as  Senator Greenwood  admits; yet he suggests that another 20 per cent should be added to the percentage vote in order to make certain that there will be no more amalgamations, that the weaker unions will stay weak and that there will be an imposition on members of those small unions through their having to pay higher contribution fees, knowing that unions cannot function efficiently and effectively when they do not have large memberships. I strongly support the Bill as introduced. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, relates to the Government's regional employment development scheme. Can the Minister say whether any projects under this scheme have been approved for the State of South Australia? 
-Has the Postmaster-General seen the article in the 'Sunday Mail ' at the weekend which stated that the telephone directory for Adelaide would be available 2 months later than usual because of a paper shortage? If this information is correct can the Minister give an assurance that the delay will be only approximately 2 months? 
-Can the Postmaster-General provide any details of the extent of operation of the planned Australian Post Office courier service? Can he also say how many people it is expected will be employed by the service? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for the Media been drawn to the editorials appearing in the Melbourne 'Herald' and the 'Sydney Morning Herald' expressing criticism of proposed amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act which have been designed to settle the ambiguity of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board's powers under the Act? Are both of these newspapers very heavily involved in commercial television companies, and do they both enjoy the protection of what are known as the excessive interests section of the Act? Do the newspapers therefore very much have a vested interest in seeing that the Control Board remains a toothless organisation? Is it right to say that the present Bill does not contain a right of appeal from determinations of the Control Board? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Defence been made aware of a report in the Melbourne Sun' that the rocket range at Woomera may fold? Can the Minister advise the Senate whether the report is factual? 
-Is the Minister for Agriculture aware of the difficulties at present confronting beef producers in Australia? Will the Minister indicate whether anything can be done to overcome these difficulties? 
-Has the Postmaster-General seen a report in the 'Canberra Times' called 'The Cost of Vandalism'? It makes specific mention of the problems caused by vandalism to public telephones. Can the Minister given any details of what his Department plans to do to overcome this problem? 
I ask the Postmaster-General: Is it a fact, as reported in an Adelaide newspaper article, that increased postal rates have caused a fall in the number of Christmas letters and parcels sent overseas this year from Adelaide? 
I remind the Minister for the Media of his announcement that the Government would establish experimental radio stations in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide, including stations which will work in the public broadcasting area. Will the Minister inform the Senate what measures of assistance the Government is providing to the University of Adelaide which has been authorised to establish an experimental amplitude modulation radio station in that city? 
1 present the following petition from 280 Australian Government employees: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned Australian Government employees respectfully showeth: 
That under the provisions of the existing superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees: 
Contribution rates are excessively high especially for older members, and hence the preclusion of most contributors from the full pension theoretically available. 
Cost of administration are needlessly high because of the complexity of the scheme. 
Female contributors are discriminated against. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
The introduction of the Treasurer's proposals for a new superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees presented in March 1974. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. The Minister is no doubt aware of a meeting in Canberra to consider aid to municipal areas under the Regional Employment Development scheme- commonly called the RED scheme. Are there any new areas in South Australia that will be granted further benefit under the scheme? 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. Earlier this session I asked him a question regarding vandalism of public telephones. In his reply the Postmaster-General indicated that he had asked his Department to prepare an anti-vandalism publicity campaign. Can he give any further information regarding this campaign and when it is likely to commence? 
I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration a question in relation to the Government's Regional Employment Development Scheme which is now gathering impetus. Is the Minister in a position to give any information as to the extent of operation of the scheme and also the number of jobs being provided by the scheme? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. It relates to the Regional Employment Development scheme. Can the Minister provide to the Senate details of the total number of projects approved and the estimated cost of such projects, both Australiawide and in South Australia? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. The Minister will be aware that the Australian Government has budgeted over $ 1 m in 1 974-75, including $ 1 50,000 for grants to the States for road safety, research and promotion. Could the Minister advise the Senate how this money will be spent and what part the National Authority on Road Safety and Standards will play in the program? 
I refer the Postmaster-General to a question that was asked last November in relation to the takeover by the 
Australian Post Office of company coin telephones, in particular the telephones marketed under the name Easiphone. Can the Minister now say whether any progress has been made in the negotiations leading to this takeover? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Can the Minister say what action, if any, the Government is taking to improve apprenticeship opportunities in Australian Government establishments? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property. Has the Minister been made aware of a report in the Melbourne 'Herald' that some honourable senators are known to be employing their wives as secretaries? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the report is true or false? 
I rise mainly to inform the Senate of the part that Government members also played in getting former  Senator Murphy,  who was then the Attorney-General, to amend the clause regarding the bounty in the Refrigeration Compressors Bounty Bill. As  Senator DrakeBrockman  said, this Bill passed through the House of Representatives on 3 October where there was very little opposition to it. It was probably realised afterwards that only one of the manufacturers in Australia would benefit by the bounty and that the other 2 manufacturers, namely Email Ltd and Kelvinator Australia Ltd of South Australia, would not benefit by the bounty. However an article appeared in the Australian Financial Review' on 1 November. It was written, I understand, by the honourable member for Wakefield,  Mr Kelly,  who signed himself 'by a Modest Member of Parliament'. In the article he referred to the legislation that we are now debating. I shall quote an extract of what he said. It reads: 
The Bill went through the House of Representatives easily, but since then the hosts of the ungodly (as Eccles calls them) have been marshalled and the Bill will be emasculated in the Senate. 
Eccles burst into tears of rage when he heard this, but perhaps things are not quite as serious as he thinks, After all, the bounty is only to be paid for 2 years and after this the industry is expected to exist on 25 per cent duty alone. 
The only way it can hope to do this is to make all, or almost all, the Australian compressors in one factory. If not, a duty of 25 per cent will not suffice. 
Following that article in the 'Australian Financial Review". I received a copy of a letter from the Managing Director of Email Ltd. It was a copy of a letter that he wrote to the editor of the Australian Financial Review'. I do not intend reading all the letter. I shall read only 2 paragraphs. The letter was dated 6 November and it states: 

 Sir, 

The unexpected appearance in your columns ( 1 November) of the views of the 'Modest Member' on the Refrigeration and Compressors Bounty Bill now before the Senate obliges me to break a silence self-imposed as a courtesy natural to an issue of industrial and political seriousness under discussion with the Government in Canberra. Support by your correspondent for this Bill continues a fallacy which, unless corrected, could have serious repercussions on costs and employment in the Australian appliance industry. 
The Managing Director there is referring to the honourable member for Wakefield. After summing up the effect the Bill would have on Email Ltd he states: 
In 1 96$ Email was the first company by more than 2 years to gain Standards Association of Australia certification for its full range of Australian made refrigerators. No manufacturer presently using Kirby compressors is so certified over his full range. If Email was forced to purchase compressors instead of manufacturing then direct and indirect effects could be that 500 jobs would disappear at our Orange plant- an outstanding example or decentralisation initiated 28 years ago with the Chifley Government and employing some 2000 people. 
Following that letter I received a telegram from Rod Marsh who is Secretary of the Trades and Labour Council in New South Wales. It was addressed to me as  Chairman  of the Manpower Committee. In the telegram he stated: 
Labor Council of New South Wales vitally concerned at maintaining employment levels at Email Plant Orange New South Wales. This decentralised community relies substantially on such employment. Company will be affected by operation refrigeration compressors bounty bill also white goods industry tariff" policy. Request your support for this establishment in deliberations of your committee. 
I had passed to me 2 further telegrams that were sent to the Postmaster-General,  Senator Bishop.  One was from the Premier of South Australia and the other was from the Premier's Department in South Australia. Both these telegrams drew the Minister's attention to the effect of the legislation on the Kelvinator Company in South Australia. After we received communications from the General Manager of Email, from the Premier of South Australia and from his Department, together with the telegram from the Secretary of the Trades and Labor Council in New South Wales, with  Senator McLaren  I called on the then Attorney-General, former  Senator Murphy,  and we explained what the effects would be. At that time  Senator Murphy  gave both of us a very sympathetic hearing- the same as he did to  Senator Drake-Brockman-  and assured both of us that the legislation would be remedied.  Senator McLaren  and I later attended a meeting of the Economics Committee where representations were presented from the domestic appliance industry in Australia. The matter was fully discussed, and it was agreed that the legislation be amended so that the bounty would apply not only to Kirby Refrigeration Units Pty Ltd but also to Email and Kelvinator. I believe that the representations of Government senators to Ministers have resulted in a suitable amendment which will cover the matter regarding the other manufacturers. The amendment increases the amount of the bounty from $2m to $3. 25m. I believe that it was the efforts not only of Opposition senators but of  Senator McLaren  and myself in drawing the attention of the then Attorney-General to the legislation which remedied the anomalies which existed. 
Sitting suspended from  12.51  to  2.15  p.m. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture and follows a question previously asked by  Senator Young.  Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in yesterday's Adelaide Advertiser' which reports that the Minister for Science,  Mr Morrison,  said that the Trade Practices Act would be used to prohibit the sale of any fish with a mercury content higher than .5 parts per million? Is there any evidence that any person in Australia has had any ill effects from eating fish bought from fish shops? Will the Minister ask his colleagues to consider compensation payments to those fishermen who will lose their livelihood if the regulation is enforced? 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen today's Press report relating to the Australian Broadcasting Commission and its young-style radio station 2JJ? Is it true that the article tells of fears within the ABC that a campaign is under way to force 2JJ off the air? Is there any truth in this assertion that there is a growing campaign against the station? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security: Have there been complaints about procedures and time taken to pay unemployment benefit? If so, what action does the Government propose to take to solve these problems? 
-My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. As a result of the flooding of the Stuart Highway, has the Post Office made any alternative arrangements for the conveyance of mail between Darwin and other capital cities? 
-Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation give any information on details of the proposed eligibility for service pensions to ex-members of the defence forces of the British Commonwealth countries and the approximate date when the benefits will apply? 
-The Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration will know the commitment of the Australian Labor Party through its platform to the establishment of a Bureau of Industrial Research to develop and co-ordinate research into manpower and industrial relations. Can the Minister say what action, if any, is being taken to establish what would seem to be an urgently needed bureau? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Can he inform the Senate whether there is likely to be any delay in compensation payments to residents of Darwin for loss or damage to real and personal property arising out of Cyclone Tracy? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and refer to that Minister's recent decision to engage a consultant to study private transport operations. Will the Government ensure that the problems associated with urban transport services will be closely looked at by the consultant group? I ask this in view of the fact that some private transport operators in some cities have withdrawn services, leaving unfilled gaps. 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General as the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer to my previous question of 1 1 February this year in relation to the operation of the Regional Employment Development scheme in South Australia and especially to projects approved and jobs provided in that State. 
Can he now provide the information I previously sought? 
-Can the Postmaster-General advise whether trials in Victoria of electricity-powered motor scooters for postmen are proving to be successful? In view of Adelaide's suitable terrain and intensely developed industrial area, will the PostmasterGeneral also consider conducting trials in the Adelaide area? 
I am very pleased that the Opposition is supporting the Darwin Cyclone Damage Compensation Bill 1975. I only wish that when the Bill was introduced on 16 April of this year the Opposition had then passed the Bill through all its stages, which would have obviated the delay to which  Senator DrakeBrockman  referred. Because of that delay the people of Darwin have been waiting for 4 months to receive compensation for the loss of their houses and their personal property. It is my belief that there was no excuse for this Bill not being passed on 16 April of this year when the second reading speech was read to the Senate. In the second reading speech, which appears at page 1062 of Hansard, the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  clearly illustrated the purpose of the Bill, the amount that was to be set aside for compensation and also the conditions on which the compensation would be paid. Apart from giving that information in his second reading speech the Minister also said that he would like the Bill to be passed as speedily as possible. 
I do not know why the Opposition did not act as it has acted in the past and put through the legislation far more quickly. The Social Services Bill 1 975 was passed through all its stages by this House in about 8 minutes. The Remuneration and Allowances Bill 1975 went through fairly quickly without the debate being adjourned. Only recently a Bill which sought a change to the Constitution went through in about 5 minutes. The Darwin Reconstruction Bill 1975 was passed through this House on 19 February 1975 after full and complete debate, and the record of the vote taken on that Bill can be seen at page 311 of Hansard. I would have thought that honourable senators opposite would be fully aware that the people of Darwin who lost their houses and personal property need compensation. As a matter of fact, a report put out by the Minister shows that at the time of the cyclone disaster there were approximately 1 1 000 households in Darwin. A further report that has been put out shows that a total of 10 636 household claim forms and 1572 business claim forms have now been issued, and interviews have been held with 7783 household claimants and 1013 business claimants. A lot of these people have left Darwin since the disaster and will not return. 
A comprehensive investigation that was undertaken by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation has shown that nearly 50 per cent of the people in Darwin were either insured or not insured at all. I know that a number of these 10 600 people who have already put in their claim forms are desperately waiting for finance to rebuild, to build elsewhere or to buy other homes elsewhere. I will refer to only one case. No doubt the other 10 600 cases would be in similar circumstances. This person is an employee of the Department of Housing and Construction in Darwin. He is still working up there. He had built a new house.  His  valuation was $5 1 ,000. The valuation of the Australian Taxation Office was $50,000. The house was not insured. Similar cases have been referred to today and other times. Insurance agents often delay the finalisation of the insurance contracts. In this case the insurance agent said: 'I will come back in the new year and finalise the insurance policy'. It was too late in the new year because the cyclone struck on Christmas Day. 
In many other cases the insurance company officers know full well that the households are very much under-insured because of inflation. The householder may have taken out a policy 5 or 10 years ago for the then market value of the property, but with inflation the value of the property has doubled and sometimes trebled. The insurance companies have not advised the policy holders that they ought to increase the value of the insurance on their properties so that they would be fully compensated if there were a natural disaster or any loss. We know of other cases in which the renewal payments have been 2 or 3 days overdue, and the insurance companies will not pay out compensation for the losses. 
The case to which I was referring was the case of a person who had built a home valued at $50,000. He had no insurance. He does not intend to return permanently to Darwin because the site on which his house was built will be taken over by the Government for road construction. However, he bought a house to his satisfaction in Adelaide. He paid a deposit. The balance of the contract had to be paid within 28 days. The Commonwealth Trading Bank with which he was dealing said that it would advance the money provided it knew that he would get some compensation for the Darwin cyclone damage to his property. Although the Bill had been introduced at that stage it had not been passed, and the Bank did not know the attitude of the Opposition. It was only my representation to the Minister and his officers that resulted in this person's position being temporarily rectified. However, he is still paying the full interest on the $25,000 bridging finance for the house that he has bought in Adelaide, which is only a substitute for the $50,000 house that he had in Darwin. 
My belief is that this Bill should not have been delayed by the Opposition. We knew what the people in Darwin wanted. We knew that a number of them had returned and were eager to rebuild or renovate houses that were partially destroyed. It was not only this Bill which was delayed but also Appropriation Bill (No. 5) 1974-75, which provides the initial finance of $25m to pay compensation to people in Darwin. There is no reason why this Bill could not have been passed here on 23 April when we were debating the Estimates Committees and the Appropriation Bills. 
-It is obvious that the Opposition does not read the notice paper because if  Senator Drake-Brockman  had read the notice paper he would have seen that the Darwin Cyclone Damage Compensation Bill was right at the top of the notice paper on 23 April of this year. If Opposition members had not got up in a hurry about 5 o'clock and gone back to their respective States we would have passed not only the Appropriation Bill necessary to provide finance for the people in Darwin but also the Bill that we are now debating. So although  Senator Drake-Brockman  has shown anxiety because the people of Darwin have waited for months, the delay has been due mainly to the obstruction by the Opposition in the Senate. The 4 months delay to which he referred is now nearly 5 months. I hope that the Bill is passed quickly today and that the Opposition causes no further delay so that the people in Darwin who lost their houses and their personal property at least can receive the compensation that we have told them we will give them. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is he aware of a recent claim by the Western Australian Police Union that the Australian Government should pay the costs of police officers who require legal assistance to appear before the current royal commission into relationships between police and Aborigines? Is the Minister considering recommending that the Australian Government assist in the payment of these costs? 
-Is the Minister for the Media able to tell the Senate who will be responsible for the ethnic radio stations to be established in Sydney and Melbourne? Is it not true that the licences for the stations were to be issued to a government department? Has there been any change in the position? If so, will the Minister tell us what it is? 
The 2 stations concerned will be low powered stations, having a range, I think, of about 16 kilometres and will be licensed, as I have said, by my colleague, the Postmaster-General, under the terms of the Wireless Telegraphy Act. I think I should say also that my colleague,  Senator Bishop,  and I have been having some discussions about this matter over the last two or three days. We are considering making it a condition of the issuing of the licences that there be appointed a committee for the purpose of advising on the programming arrangements. The frequencies that are involved will be available to the stations for a period of only 13 weeks. Certainly that will give the Government the opportunity to experiment with ethnic broadcasting in Australia. My attention has been drawn to an article which appeared in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' yesterday concerning some broadcasting that was being done by the educational community broadcasting station in Adelaide, station VL5UV, on which has been arranged an Italian one-hour program which is being very well received by the Italian community. But, as I say, the licences to be issued will be issued by my colleague,  Senator Bishop,  under the Wireless Telegraphy Act. 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has discontinuted the popular Radio 3 program 'Sunday Morning Concert' with Ralph Collins? Can the Minister explain why the ABC has taken this action which deprives country listeners of this popular program? 
-I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer the Minister to a recent application under the Regional Employment Development scheme by the Corporation of the Town of Hindmarsh in South Australia for the funding of improvements for parks and council properties. Can the Minister say whether the project has been approved? If it has, can he give details of the project? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I rise in this debate mainly to refute some of the suggestions that have been made by the last 2 Opposition speakers. They took the opportunity not to discuss the merits of the legislation but to engage in their usual union-bashing tactics. As we know, Opposition senators have had no experience whatsoever in the trade union movement. Therefore, they would not know what the Bill is all about, or what the need for trade union training is all about. That was shown quite clearly by  Senator Steele  Hall. He spent most of his time in addressing the Senate in reading from an article by a journalist who wrote mainly about the trade union scene in England.  Senator Steele  Hall has achieved notoriety in South Australia for his anti-trade unionism and for his trade union bashing in that State. Probably it was something new to hear his attitude to the trade union movement being presented to the Senate. 
By this Bill we seek to train trade union officials, rank and file members of trade unions and shop stewards not only in the administration of a trade union but also in the other very complex matters of trade union activity, including the preparation of claims to be presented to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or to be used in negotiations between the employer and the employee. Trade union training in industrial law is not given in any college or university in Australia. Today the unions in Australia have to compete with employers who have capable and trained industrial advocates. In order to do this, union officials have to be trained right from the shop floor through the whole administration of a union. Being a former secretary of the Australian Workers Union, I know that in the State of South Australia from which I come we had great difficulty in engaging an industrial officer. Nobody in that State or, to my knowledge, in any other State has training as an industrial officer. It is very important that people in the trade union movement should have this training. 
It is pleasing for me tonight to be able to say that a former industrial officer of the Australian Workers Union,  Mr John  Bannon, is now acting as a departmental adviser to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. When unions are able to get an efficient advocate on industrial affairs, they usually do not keep him for very long. That is one reason why this Bill has been introduced. There will be a training centre which will keep members and officials of unions up to date on the latest techniques in preparing a case and presenting it to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This task is becoming more complex with the changes in the Commission's decisions. I need to refer only to the recent arbitration case on wage indexation to show how important it is today for trade union officials to be educated so that they know what is required and how best they can present a case in the interests of the members whom they represent. 
This evening  Senator Steele  Hall took the opportunity of the debate on this Bill to attack the trade union movement in South Australia and, as a matter of fact, in all other States. He referred to the fact that 40 000 tonnes of wheat is waiting to be exported to Chile. If there is an increase in the world price of wheat in 6 months time the current position regarding the export of wheat to Chile may be an advantage, not a disadvantage, to the Australian wheat growers; but I know that if that happens  Senator Steele  Hall will not admit that he was wrong in what he said this evening. We know, of course, that there is no wheat surplus in Australia; we are able to sell all of the wheat that we can grow. So the decision of the Waterside 
Workers Federation of Australia does not affect in any way the wheatgrowers of Australia. The only reason  Senator Hall  raised this matter this evening was to appeal to and please his supporters in the big companies such as the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, General Motors-Holdens Pty Ltd, Chrysler Australia Ltd and similar big companies that rely on the likes of  Senator Hall  and other honourable senators in the Opposition to continually bash down the trade unions. Opposition senators believe that if they can come into the chamber, particularly when the proceedings are being broadcast, and bash the trade union movement and blame the trade union movement for everything that is affecting the economy of Australia irrespective of what Bill we are debating, they are serving their masters, and they hope to be rewarded for it. 
As Opposition senators have indicated that they are going to support the Bill I see no purpose in my delaying the passage of this legislation. It provides for something that we hope and we believe will improve the relationship between the trade union movement and the employers. We hope that any further contributions in this debate will be based on the merits of the Bill and not on union bashing, as have the contributions from the last 2 speakers from the Opposition side. 
-Has the Minister for Manufacturing Industry seen Press reports about dissatisfaction with the Government's proposed plan for the motor industry in Australia? In particular, has he seen reports that during a visit to Japan early this month senior government officials were frustrated in their endeavours and returned with no firm commitments? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I ask: Is it a fact that the number of unemployed in Australia fell by 17 500 in May, as reported in the 'Australian' today? Does this indicate that the economy is heading towards a recovery and that the measures introduced by the Government have proved to be successful? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Media: Has the Minister been alerted to a Press report stating that an Adelaide radio personality was sacked from a South Australian radio station for allowing a caller on a talk-back program to continue making untrue derogatory political accusations about a well-known Adelaide woman who is an active member of the Australian Labor Party? Is it true that the same radio commentator at the time of his dismissal was employed as a research assistant with the Opposition's shadow Minister for the Media? Is he still employed in that capacity? 
-Has the Minister representing the Attorney-General seen a report in yesterday's Sydney 'Sun' headed Soviet Amnesty for Women' which stated that the Soviet Government had announced a qualified amnesty for women and minors in prison or under investigation, as a gesture to International Women's Year? Will the Minister confer with the Attorney-General to determine whether the same remissions can be extended to women and minors in prison in Australia, also as a gesture of leniency in recognition of International Women's Year? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Defence tell me whether there have been any developments in relation to the future of the Woomera rocket range in South Australia? 
I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: Is it true that the repatriation local medical officer scheme has become defunct with the introduction ofMedibank? 
-Is the Special Minister of State aware of complaints that some dealers are increasing the prices of commodities such as beer and cigarettes which they purchased allegedly at pre-Budget rates of duty? What action, if any, can be taken by the Prices Justification Tribunal to see that the public is not fleeced by these unscrupulous operators? 
-Can the Special Minister of State inform me whether the Government is taking any specific action to help meet the present problems being experienced by Australian industry producing bags and sacks of man made fibre? 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. A number of people have expressed concern recently about claims alleging that non-official post offices in their districts will be closed or that the services these offices provide will be reduced. Will the Postmaster-General indicate whether there is any truth in these comments? 
-Has the Special Minister of State seen a report in the  Australian Financial Review  suggesting that the prices charged by statutory bodies should be made the subject of reference to the Prices Justification Tribunal? Is it possible for the Tribunal under the existing legislation to undertake this task? 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State. In view of the inadequate standard of many public libraries in Australia, is the Government able to take any measures to assist libraries before the committee of inquiry into public libraries makes its report? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the progress being made by that committee? 
-Can the Minister for Police and Customs identify for the benefit of honourable senators the more important objectives of the amalgamation of police forces within the Australia Police? Has any progress been made in the establishment of this body? 
-We are debating the 1975-76 Budget Speech which was delivered by the Treasurer,  Mr Bill  Hayden, nearly 4 weeks ago. Since I became a member of this chamber 1 have never witnessed such a succession of speakers during a Budget debate. The last  Speaker, Senator Jessop,  involved himself for nearly an hour filibustering in the most despicable manner that has occurred in my time here. The Opposition, for some reason that is beyond me and is known only to it, is deliberately deferring the passing of this Budget.  Senator Jessop,  during his contribution to the debate, referred to quite a number of matters, which were mostly incoherent or inaudible on this side of the chamber. The interjections from  Senator Hall  seemed to throw him completely off balance, and from then he rambled on, repeating comments made by the Press and referring to socialist writers, which I believe had absolutely nothing to do with the debate on the Budget.  Senator Jessop  did refer to the danger of inflation and wage increases. Other Opposition speakers also have referred to wage increases and the demands of militant unions as being the only ingredient responsible for the increased rate of inflation over the last 12 months.  (Quorum formed) 
I should like to inform the Senate of some of the current figures in Federal awards in this country, and Opposition senators might then realise why there is discontent and industrial unrest. That unrest is no fault of the employees; the employers mainly are responsible, as well as the system of arbitration with which we are forced to live. I refer, firstly, to the Metal Trades Award, in which the current rate prescribed for a fitter and turner or for a motor mechanic is only $1 10 a week. We all know that a motor mechanic or a tradesman fitter and turner has to do a 5 -year apprenticeship before he reaches a standard at which he can get that rate. A comparison with other Federal awards indicates that, even though a fitter and turner or a motor mechanic undergoes a 5-year apprenticeship training, at the end of that 5 years his current award rate is less than that prescribed for what are called semi-skilled workers. 
I refer to the Transport Workers (General) Award, which prescribes for a 5-ton-truck driver a rate of $ 1 12.40 a week, or over $2 more than the rate for a fitter and turner. I think honourable senators opposite would accept that it does not take as much skill to drive a 5-ton truck as it does to become a mechanic or a fitter and turner. I am not saying that the rate for a truck driver is too high, but I am trying to show the inadequacies that exist in the arbitration system when the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission allows this to happen. Under the Building Construction Employees and Builders Labourers Award, the total weekly wage for a bricklayer or a carpenter is $141.90. Under the Australian Workers Union Construction and Maintenance Consolidated Award a grade 3 construction worker receives $107.80 a week. Those are some examples of Federal awards which have been fixed either by a commissioner or by the Full Bench of the Commission and which give higher rates of remuneration for semi-skilled and unskilled workers than for the most highly skilled and technical worker, that is, the fitter under the Metal Trades Award. 
We have heard from the Opposition about wage indexation as though that is going to be a cure for all the problems of inflation. I refer the Senate to the time prior to 1953 when we did have wage indexation. In those days it was called by a different name; it was called the quarterly cost of living adjustment. The only difference between that adjustment and what was introduced by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in May of this year is that today the consumer price index is added to the total wage whereas prior to 1953 the quarterly cost of living adjustment was added only to the basic wage or what was sometimes called the living wage. The trade union movement and the Australian Labor Party vigorously opposed the suspension of the quarterly cost of living adjustments. However, the Liberal-Country Party Government of the day supported the suspension, as did the employer organisations throughout Australia. Both the Chamber of Manufactures and the Employers Federation strongly advocated in the court that the quarterly cost of living adjustments should stop, mainly because, according to their argument, they were inflationary. 
It is my belief that no blame can be attached to the metal workers for wanting to restore their award relativity with other tradesmen in the country. For many years there was very little difference in the weekly wages received by a fitter, a mechanic, a bricklayer, a carpenter, a plumber or any other tradesman. As a matter of fact, when the works value case was conducted before Commissioner Winter in 1967, I think it was, a pattern was set which all other awards have followed since except those cases in which employers departed from what was set by the court and increased the rates of pay substantially. Whether it was done by consent through the commissioner or whether it was agreed to by the employer organisations, the result is the same. There is now a big difference between the rate for a fitter and turner and the rate for a motor mechanic or for other tradesmen. 
I do not blame the unions for not tolerating this situation. Until there is a complete review of the whole of the wage structure I think we will have industrial unrest. I would like to see a complete revaluation of awards, guidelines set down and those guidelines carried out so that in future we do not see a disparity between the rates of a fitter and the rates of other tradesmen. I do not think all the blame can be sheeted home to the unions. The officials of the unions are acting only on instructions from their members and surely those tradesmen who have put in 5 years as apprentices are entitled to at least the same rate of pay as a truck driver, a carpenter and a third grade construction worker. 
During  Senator Jessop  's contribution to the debate he mentioned, as other Opposition senators have mentioned, that in the Budget papers an increase of approximately 43 per cent is shown in pay as you earn income tax. Those honourable senators failed to inform the Senate that wage increases are expected to amount to about 20 per cent and that it is likely that another 200 000 people will enter the work force between now and next year. Most of the anticipated 250 000 school leavers will be absorbed into the work force thus adding to the wage costs and of course pay as you earn income tax will automatically increase. The insinuation has been made by the Opposition that the new taxation schedules are responsible for that increase in pay as you earn income tax in the 1975-76 Budget. That is not the case. If existing income tax provisions had remained the revenue from income tax in the 1975-76 Budget would be much higher. 

 Senator Jessop also mentioned the fishing industry. I do not know how he worked that subject into the debate but a fair amount of tolerance is allowed during the Budget debate. Although he was correct in stating that all the States except South Australia have introduced regulations that the mercury content in fish should not exceed 0.5 parts per million, he did not tell the Senate that not one of the States is in fact policing the industry to ensure that the fish which are on sale are kept to the 0.5 parts per million mercury content. The only State which has policed this regulation is South Australia which now allows one part per million mercury content, which world experts accept as not injurious to the health of people. 
Honourable senators on this side of the chamber have covered many aspects of the intention of the Budget, which is to reduce government spending, as it has done in many cases, and at the same time not to reduce spending to honour our obligations to introduce social welfare reforms. It is pleasing to note that on this occasion the standard rate of pension has been increased by a further $2.75, thus increasing the standard rate of pension to $38.75 compared with $20.50 when we came into power less than 3 years ago. Another benefit in the field of social welfare which is part of the Australian Labor Party's policy is in health care. The national health scheme has been introduced. More than one million people in Australia out of the population of 13 'A million now have a health coverage which they did not have and could not afford previously. I believe that will be one of the monuments by which this Government will be remembered in the future. We have introduced a medical health scheme in which everybody participates, irrespective of income, and we have more or less abolished the iniquities that existed because under the previous method of income tax assessment amounts paid to the voluntary medical health funds were a tax deduction; therefore those on higher incomes had greater benefit than those on lower incomes. We have increased the amount to be expended on education over that spent during the previous 2 years. When we came into government the annual expenditure on education was approximately $250m. This year it is approximately $ 1,900m. 
The only regret that I have about the Budget is that it was not possible to introduce a social welfare payment for the deserted father. I do not think there was any mention of such a payment by the Opposition this year, although I believe  Senator Guilfoyle  referred to the matter either during the Budget debate last year or during the debate on the social services legislation. I believe that deserted fathers should receive a pension similar to that received by deserted wives or widows. At one time it was very rare to hear of a mother leaving her children to the support of the husband, but today it is becoming common and the father of a young family has only 2 alternatives: He can either give up the children and let them go into the custody of the state, or he can give up his employment. On giving up his employment he does not qualify for any of the social service benefits. He cannot register at the Commonwealth Employment Office to receive unemployment benefits because he is unable to accept employment if it is offered and, of course, he does not qualify for any other social welfare payment. He cannot accept casual employment, particularly if the children are young, and he is unable to get domestic help to look after the children while he attends work. So perhaps in the near future, probably when a Budget is introduced by this Government next year, this matter will receive recognition and a provision will be introduced so that there is no discrimination against the deserted husband as there is today and so that he will receive a similar benefit to that received by a deserted wife. 
I believe the Budget is a very good one under the prevailing circumstances. We on the Government side recognise that the rate of unemployment is too high and we also recognise that the rate of inflation is too high. However, I believe that inherent in this Budget are the ingredients to cure both those anomalies. I have much pleasure in supporting the Budget. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: 
Can he say whether the program under the MITERS scheme has been approved for South Australia? Will he inform honourable senators what amounts were allocated for 1974-75 and for the current financial year? 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. Recently he advised the Senate that the Australian Postal Commission was planning to introduce a courier service in Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra. Is any such courier service proposed for Adelaide? 
I present the Tenth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
Can the Postmaster-General advise when the 1975 Adelaide telephone directory will be distributed to subscribers in South Australia and why the directory was not available at the same time as the directories of the other States and the Australian Capital Territory? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. In view of the recent publicity about the unexpectedly high number of claims being received by Medibank, I ask the Minister whether the number of claims is higher than expected. Are the payments to meet the claims higher than expected? 
-Can the Postmaster-General comment on an article which appeared in the Adelaide  Sunday Mail  which stated that overseas mail arriving in Sydney was being delayed by a multi-million Post Office blunder? 
-I ask the 
Postmaster-General: What progress, if any, has been made to provide telephone subscribers with a meter that both records and controls telephone calls? 
I bring up the report from Estimates Committee E together with the minutes of proceedings. I also table the  Hansard  report of the evidence taken at all meetings of the Committee except today's meeting. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Defence inform me of the projects being undertaken at the Weapons Research Establishment, Salisbury? Will the Woomera range activities affect these projects and the work load at the Weapons Research Establishment generally? 
I ask the Minister for Police and Customs: Is it true that  there is considerable opposition to the setting up of an Australia Police Force amongst members of the police forces in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory? Is this opposition based on a belief that the police activities in the Territories are quite different from those of the Australia Police? 
-Can the Postmaster-General comment on newspaper articles reporting that a woman was struck by lightning through the earpiece of her telephone? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I am advised that- 
1 ) Yes, my predecessor,  Mr Morrison  did say on 1 1 February 1975 that 'Australia is recognised as a world leader in solar energy research '. 
There have been many references to Australian solar energy research in the international literature. Some examples are as follows: 
United States NSF/NASA Solar Energy Panel report on solar energy as a national energy resource. Page I , states 'Programs in Australia, the U.S.S.R., France and Israel have all substantially exceeded U.S. effort'. 
Text book by Duffie and Beckman on Solar Energy Thermal Processes Page 9 of the Preface states 'This book is based on many sources of information including the many publications of the Mechanical Engineering Division of CSIRO, Australia'. 
Although not a member of NATO, Australia was invited to particpate in the NATO Committee which was set up to study and report on cost effective applications of solar energy. This invitation was accepted and is shown as the  CCMS Pilot Study. 
In 1970 the International Solar Energy Society moved its headquarters from Phoenix, Arizona, to Melbourne where it is located at the National Science Centre. 
Australia now has science agreements with a number of countries many of whom have listed solar energy as fields of activity in which they wish to collaborate. 
In the popular science field the Reader's Digest article which appeared in June 1974 has now been published in the German edition. 
The most significant advance by Australian solar energy researchers is the development of a solar collector and its integration into a system which is the basis of a new solar water heating industry. This industry is growing rapidly and exporting its technology to other countries, including Japan, New Zealand and Fiji. Other advances ready for commercial use are solar stills for desalination of salt or brackish water, a solar timber drying kiln and solar air heaters suitable for general application. 
The only figures for financial allocations to solar energy research in Australia over the past 15 years that are available are as follows: 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Transport indicate when it is expected that the standardisation of the railway line from Adelaide to Port Pirie will be completed? Can the Minister also say how much will be spent on this project this financial year? What effect will there be on the project if the Appropriation Bills are not passed? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the report in the Adelaide  Sunday Mail  that the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury is developing small airborne vehicles that are fitted with miniature television cameras? Is the Minister able to inform the Senate of the extent of involvement of the Research Establishment in this development? 
-Will the Postmaster-General advise whether consideration has been given to introducing concessional rates for trunk line calls on weekends? 
-My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. I ask: Can the Minister say whether any requests have been made by anyone for a free copy of transcripts of the Royal Commission on Petroleum? If so, what is the Government's position in this matter? 
-Has the Minister for Police and Customs seen recent Press reports which indicate that faulty helmets for motor cyclists are being imported in large numbers? What action has the Minister taken in respect of this matter? 
I present the following petition from 383 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The Humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Senate's delay of the Loan Bill and Appropriation Bills will bring Australia into a constitutional, economic and social crisis, leaving indelible scars on our democratic institutions. 
That the Senate should proceed forthwith to allow passage of these Bills so that the government, legitimately formed by a majority of the members of the people 's House ( the House of Representatives) may proceed with its administration without further disruption. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the Postmaster-General advise whether there have been any further developments in the manufacture of public telephone units which are not so susceptible to vandalism? If so, how many such units have been installed in South Australia? 
I bring up the 12th Report of the Publications Committee. I seek leave to move a motion for the adoption of the report. 
-Has the attention of the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence been drawn to an article in today's  Australian  in which  Senator Jessop  accused the Government of needlessly withholding funds to create uncertainty? In particular, has the Minister noted that  Senator Jessop  alleged that the Army and the Department of Defence have claimed that September accounts cannot be paid? 
I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development: Is it a fact that an advertisement was recently inserted in the Government  Gazette  inviting applications for the position of Personnel Service Manager for the South Australian office of the Australian Housing Corporation? Is the Minister aware that his Government abolished the Australian Housing Corporation in the first week of February? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the appointment was in fact made to the position, whether the appointment has been cancelled or whether the appointee has been placed in a similar Public Service job? 

 -Mr President, I join my colleagues on this side of the chamber in congratulating you on your election to the high office of  President  of the Senate. I feel sure that you will carry out your duties with integrity and complete impartiality. I would like you to convey my congratulations to  Senator Drake-Brockman  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. 
Before commencing to debate the GovernorGeneral's Speech I want to make some brief comments on the events that led up to the dismissal of the Labor Government on 1 1 November of last year. In making these comments I am doing so not because I have any expert knowledge of the legalities of the Constitution but because, like hundreds of thousands of people in Australia, I am still completely confused and perturbed about the events that occurred last year and that so far are unresolved. It is very disappointing to the people of Australia that although only one Minister has spoken in the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech- the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick-  no one on the government side of the chamber has made any reference to the events that led to the Australian Labor Party's defeat last year with the exception, of course, of  Senator Missen.  I will refer later to his remarks. 
Australia experienced and is still experiencing the consequences of an unparalleled and unprecedented crisis. It was a crisis concerning the very legal and constitutional fabric of our system of government. It was brought about by a series of events that have not yet been resolved. If we accept the attitude that this is now in the past we are avoiding a responsibility that we should not avoid. I believe that urgent reform is needed, as previous speakers on this side of the chamber have pointed out, in respect to various sections of the Constitution in order to sort out the anomalies that led to the dismissal of the Labor Government last year. The basic rule of our parliamentary system before 1 1 November of last year was that governments were made and unmade in the House of Representatives, that is, the people's House, and that accordingly the House in which governments are formed should hold financial paramountcy over the Senate. 
No specific power has been written into the Constitution providing for the delaying or rejection of money Bills. I am not going to debate that aspect. Very eminent legal men and professors all over Australia have made their comments on this and they are all undivided in their opinions. As I am a layman I would not like to enter the arena and try to dispute what are the constitutional legalities, what they should be and whether the situation should be remedied. I believe that section 53 of the Constitution should be carefully examined and that if there are powers permitting the refusal or passing of Supply those powers should be curtailed and clearly defined. These comments have been put forward by honourable senators on the government side of the chamber. I refer to a speech that was made by  Senator Missen  on 19 February during the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the GovernorGeneral's Speech and which is recorded on page 1 1 9 of the Senate  Hansard  Senator Missen  said: 
There are, analogous to this, constitutional problems which cannot be ignored by this Parliament or by the people of Australia. Nobody seeks to suggest that they do not remain problems. Nobody suggests that after a crisis which naturally imposed dangers and stresses on the system in operation in this country and which was prolonged there are not problems that are unresolved. I say 'unresolved ' because I believe, as I think all honourable senators on this side of the chamber maintained throughout the election, that the election was not some type of referendum on the future of the Constitution or of the rights of the Senate. 

 Senator Missen went on to refer to three of the constitutional questions that should be investigated and resolved to the satisfaction of not only the Senate but also the people of Australia. I believe that the Senate has an undeniable responsibility to the Parliament to remedy the unresolved constitutional anomalies that cheated the Labor Government of office last year. I believe that the Senate has an obligation to the people of Australia and to future generations to make certain that the events of last year are never repeated. 
Prior to the Governor-General's dismissal of the Whitlam Government on 1 1 November of last year and during the election campaign many people, particularly aged people, came along to see me about the events that were taking place in Australia. They were worried and concerned about what could eventuate. Could there be a military coup in Australia? If the Labor Government were elected for the third time in succession, would the military take over the Government as has happened in other countries? I tried to explain that it was very doubtful that this would happen in a country like Australia where we have known democracy and where it is respected. But I was reminded of what 4 officers of the Army were alleged to have said in Queensland, namely, that if a socialist or Communist government were elected in Australia they would not hesitate to overturn the government elected. Those things are still worrying the people of Australia. 
I believe that an investigation should be made by a Senate committee into the constitutional legalities of the position and that the matter should be sorted out.  Senator Missen  supports the proposition that something be done but he does not think it should be done immediately. 1 do not know whether he thinks that the matter should be forgotten. However, 1 noticed that  Senator Grimes,  who followed  Senator Missen  in the debate, stated that if  Senator Missen  thought that anything would be done by this Government he was far off the mark. I raise this matter hoping that the issues of last year are not forgotten. They should not be forgotten because so much damage was done to the Parliament of Australia and the people of Australia are still divided on this issue. 
There are 4 questions in regard to the Constitution to which I want to refer briefly. I will not elaborate on these points because other honourable senators on this side of the Senate have fully covered all aspects of the Constitution. The first point that I believe should be considered carefully is whether the Governor-General's power to dismiss a Prime Minister and Ministers of the Crown should be retained or whether it should be altered. The second point I make is in relation to the Senate's authority to block Supply. This was done under section 53 of the Constitution. Many legal men have given interpretations of that section which give no foundation for the actions of the Governor-General on 1 1 November last year. Only recently in an editorial in the Melbourne  Herald  newspaper dated 18 February 1 976 these comments were made: 
Neither the Senate nor any other upper house should deny money Bills and so force an election. Actions taken by the Opposition late last year comprised an improper use of power. A way must be found to curtail even the possibility of that happening again. Presumably, it can be accomplished by a referendum and a qualification of the Constitution. 
The Melbourne  Herald  newspaper has been very consistent on this issue. It has not forgotten the issue even if Government senators would like it to be forgotten. Government senators are adopting the attitude that they are in power, they do not care how they got into power as long as they remain in power. They do not want to make the situation any easier than it is for the Opposition to regain power. But there are one or two matters which they probably have not thought of. The first is in regard to the filling of casual vacancies in the Senate. In the past- that is, prior to last year- casual vacancies were always filled by a member of the political party to which the senator who died or who resigned from the Senate belonged. You,  Mr President,  will be well aware that the South Australian Government carried out that practice, I think in 1967. Last year there was a departure from that convention by 2 States of the Commonwealth, New South Wales and Queensland. I am about to repeat what has been said in the Senate many times: If it had not been for the death of the late  Senator Milliner  there would have been no election last year. You,  Mr President,  would not be sitting in that chair and we would be on the other side of the Senate chamber. That is undeniable because 2 senators from the then Opposition said that they would refuse to reject the Supply Bills One of those senators is still in the Parliament; the other lost pre-selection by his Party. 
I believe that we ought to set down a principle in the Constitution which declares that in the event of a senator resigning or dying his place must be filled by a member of the same political party. We should not leave the position as it is at present, that is, at the whim of the government of a State.  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, the present Prime Minister, has announced on several occasions that his Government may have to introduce measures that will be extremely unpopular. Any government that introduces measures that are extremely unpopular, of course, loses electoral support. I wonder whether he has ever thought of the possibility- this is hypothetical- of a tragedy occurring in which an aircraft travelling to South Australia next Thursday or Friday crashed and the 5 Liberal Party senators from that State were all killed. What would happen if the South Australian Labor Government elected 5 Labor senators in their place? We would have a majority in the Senate. We would not be doing anything new. Certainly the Premier of Queensland would take that sort of action. The Premier of New South Wales would not hesitate to do that if he was in office. 
-They have established the precedent. The South Australian Labor Government would be quite within its rights to follow the precedent which has been set by 2 previous Liberal-National Country Party coalition governments. 
The final question that I believe needs some clarification and perhaps change in the Constitution concerns the length of time to be served by senators. Although in the last 3 double dissolutions the question of who will have the long term of 6 years and who will have the short term of 3 years has been settled rather amicably by both sides of the Senate, it could so happen that in an election 30 senators from the Government side, 30 senators from the Opposition side and 4 independent senators or senators from a small political party were elected. Those 4 senators, could be elected on the preference votes of the other political parties. It would be quite simple for those 4 senators to vote with the party in Opposition to reverse the conventions that we have carried out over the last double dissolutions. Thus, instead of giving to the 5 senators who were first elected in each State the long term in office and the 5 senators who were last elected the short term in office, the Senate could easily reverse that position and give the 5 senators last elected the long term of office and the 5 senators first elected the short term of office. I believe that matter should be looked at and that the practice followed in the past 3 double dissolutions could quite easily be written into the Constitution so that for all time the people of Australia would know, in the event of any elections, how senators would be placed and whether they were being elected for a long term or a short term. I want to refer briefly to 2 matters contained in the Governor-General's Speech. The first reads: 
The Government intends to increase the capacity of Australian workers and employers to decide the leadership of their organisation. Legislation will be introduced providing for officially conducted secret ballots in elections for officials in organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Government is also proposing to ensure that members receive each year a report on the activities of their organisation and its finances. 
It seems to me that the Government is intent on a collision course with the trade union movement. Although the Prime Minister promised during the election campaign that he would support full wage indexation, no sooner was the case before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission than he intervened in the case in an effort to halve the amount of the consumer price index increase. One sees from the Governor-General 's Speech that the Prime Minister or his Government now wants to interfere with the internal affairs of the trade union movement. I am quite certain that the trade union movement will not tolerate this interference. There are ample provisions in the constitutions and rules of unions to provide for secret ballots. There is also ample provision in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act for secret ballots. Section 170 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act reads:  ( 1.) An organisation or a branch of an organisation may, in writing, request the Industrial Registrar that an election for an office in the organisation or in the branch (as the case may be) be conducted under this section with a view to ensuring that no irregularity occurs in or in connexion with the election. 
An amendment was introduced to the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations by the 
Liberal-Country Party Government in 1 972. The amendment reads:  (1.) For the purposes of section 170 of the Act, the number of members of an organisation or branch by whom a request under that section for the conduct of an election for an office in the organisation or the branch, as the case may be, may be made is two hundred and fifty, or one-twentieth of the total number of members of the organisation or branch, as the case may be, whichever is the less. 
So, there is ample provision for the rank and file members of any organisation in Australia to have a secret ballot. Only 250 signatures are required to ensure that the Commonwealth Electoral Officer will conduct the ballot in the same way as elections are concerned for the Federal Houses of Parliament. Election of union members will be conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Officer for each State. I had experience of this while in the Australian Workers Union. In every ballot each year we would petition so that the election of officers in the South Australian branch would be conducted by Commonwealth electoral officers. An organisation can obtain 250 signatures in half a day, so no real hardship is placed on a union that wants to have a secret ballot or make certain that the ballot is secret and that irregularities are avoided. 
It seems to me that the Government has taken this provocative stand against the unions for the purpose of provoking the unions into causing some industrial unrest. Then the Government, as previously, will want to change the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and re-impose the penalties that previously existed. I can think of no other reason for the Government being so stupid as to want to go on a collision course with the trade union movement. 
The other part of the Governor-General's Speech to which I want to refer reads: 
The Government proposes to introduce to the Parliament amending legislation to increase social service pensions and benefit rates every 6 months in accordance with movements in the Consumer Price Index. Similar legislation will be introduced to increase repatriation compensation payments. 
I see this as a retrograde step and one which will reduce the rate of pension below the rate that would have applied had the normal procedure of bringing the pension to 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings been followed.  Senator Colston  the other night during a very good speech referred to figures taken over the last 3 years which showed that if movements in the consumer price index had been applied in regard to pensions, pensions would have been something like $6 a week less than they currently are. The preliminary estimate for the December quarter is that average weekly male earnings arc $172 a week. The wage indexation increase of 6.4 per cent, if applied to the current standard pension rate- $38.75- would result in an additional S2.50 a week, making a total of only $41.25 a week. Applying the Labor Party's policy of 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings the standard pension would increase by $2.75 a week making a total of $43 a week or S1.75 more than the amount proposed by the Government in legislation to be introduced later in this session. 
The only other comment I wish to make is that no proposals have been made anywhere- the position may be remedied later- that supporting fathers should be granted a pension similar to that paid to supporting mothers. I raised this question here one day last week. The Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  although in favour of the policy of supporting fathers' pensions, did not indicate that they would be forthcoming. 
-That is true. I have with me an extract from the Senate  Hansard  of 30 July 1974. Commencing on page 597  Senator Guilfoyle  said: 
There is one other matter to which I wish to refer while we are talking about pension incomes. I refer not to a new need in the Australian community but one which should be recognised at this time. I speak of the need of the single fathers, the supporting fathers, of children, particularly pre-school age children. In speaking of this I do not wish to speak with a political objective in mind; I think rather that it is an objective which the Australian community should recognise. I am pleased to say that  Senator Melzer  of Victoria is displaying the same concern as I feel in this matter. This need in Australia should be regarded as a government responsibility. The government should assist disadvantaged families where a single parent, a father, is caring for children, whether he is a widower or a deserted husband. I believe that in this category there are some 25 000 families and perhaps up to 50 000 children. The anomaly is that if a widow is caring for such children there are government programs to assist her, but if a male parent has accepted the total responsibility for the children there is no government assistance to which he is entitled. There is no recognition of the special need of the supporting father and the children in such families. 

 Senator Guilfoyle went on to say that legislation of this nature should be considered, and asked the then Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  to introduce it. We know that there is a lot of distress, suffering and poverty amongst supporting fathers just as there has been and still is amongst supporting mothers, deserted wives,  de facto  wives who have been deserted, unmarried mothers and so on. I see no reason why there should be discrimination against a husband who is supporting young children going to school. The same child care and other benefits should apply to supporting husbands as apply to supporting mothers. I hope that the Minister takes cognizance of this and that she will introduce legislation to cover this anomaly. I have read  Senator Harradine  's amendment, and although it has some merit I cannot see at this stage that it fully provides for what a competent Opposition should be doing in this chamber. I shall be opposing the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. 
Sitting suspended from  5.48  to  8  p.m. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! Before calling  Senator Walters,  I draw the Senate's attention to the fact that it is her maiden speech. I ask that the usual courtesies be extended to her. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she is aware that there is growing alarm amongst age pensioners in Australia at the recent erosion of pensioner benefits. In the light of the fact that the Minister's colleague in another place, the Minister for Health, reversed his decision to abolish the free hearing aid scheme, will the Minister say whether she is prepared to consider her decision to abolish the funeral benefits for age pensioners? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. The Minister will be aware that the  Sydney Morning Herald  ran a story on 10 March 1976 in which it was stated that the migrant emergency interpreter telephone service would close its latetodawn shift. It was also reported that the Department of Social Security was to make a final decision late last week on whether this vital service was to be continued or cancelled. Will the Minister inform the Senate whether her Department has decided to close the late-to-dawn shift of the migrant emergency interpreter telephone service? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. Were ex-servicemen residing in South Australian country areas who were required to attend the repatriation hospital at 
Daw Park, a suburb of Adelaide, discriminated against in that they were not provided with free transport from the Adelaide railway station as was provided for city dwellers who attended the same hospital? Has the Government cancelled all transport for these people? If so, is this the manner in which the Government is eliminating discrimination? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, deals with the new provisions which require recipients of unemployment benefit to present themselves personally, with income statements in hand, each fortnight at an office of the Department of Social Security. What advice has the Minister had from her Department regarding the expected number of dole recipients who will fill the offices of the Department of Social Security each day when checking in with their statements? Has the Minister given approval for extra counter staff to be employed in these offices to cope with the expected long queues of people? Finally, does the Minister agree that this new provision will result in Australians finding themselves in dole queues reminiscent of those seen during the great depression? 
-My question to the Minister representing the Treasurer follows questions previously asked by  Senator Brown  and  Senator Georges.  I ask: What projections have been done to determine the number of taxpayers who will be deprived of tax deductibility of mortgage interest rates as a result of the Government's decision to confine the benefit to first home buyers in the first 5 years of repayment? Is it likely that more than half a million taxpayers will lose the right of tax deductibility? Finally, does the Government anticipate a net saving in excess of $200m in the 3 years preceding payments under the home savings grant scheme by denial of tax concessions to existing eligible home buyers? 
-My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is similar to the question previously asked by  Senator Mcintosh.  Has the Minister seen an article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 24 April of this year giving detailed proposals by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations concerning Government policy to control secret ballots for unions? The report alleges that the Minister forecast that the cost of the scheme could be considerably in excess of $ 1.5m per annum and also that the proposal may not be the best system for union elections. In view of these and other problems referred to in the report I ask: Will the Minister agree that when  Mr Fraser  put forward his policy on union elections in an attempt to win votes, he was unaware of the major difficulties involved? Will the Minister ask the Government to reconsider its irrational and ill-prepared attempt at union bashing? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Social Security by referring to a report in today's Melbourne  Age  that farmers eligible for unemployment benefit who lodged claims by 10 May 1976 will receive payments retrospective to that date. Is this concession to farmers an indication that the normal 7-day waiting period applying to all other claims for unemployment benefit may soon be abolished? 
I am still not satisfied with the answer that we have been given by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  We have been told that the Medibank premium for a family will be in the vicinity of $300 a year and for a single person $ 1 50 a year. But on past records the private funds sometimes have increased their premiums three times a year. If it is going to be accepted that in future the private funds will be allowed to increase their premiums once, twice or three times a year, then I understand that the premiums we will be expected to pay to remain in Medibank will escalate at the same rate as the private health funds' premiums are increased. I think the Senate is entitled to an answer as to whether the premiums are going to remain at $ 1 50 a year for a single person and $300 a year for a family or whether they are going to to keep pace with the increases in premiums that we know the private funds will impose now that they have a free hand to enter the scheme. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, by stating that in 1975-76 the Labor Government set aside an amount of $230m for payments to or for local government which did not include funds for sewerage or roads. Can the Minister assure the Senate that payments to or for local government in 1976-77, excluding funds for sewerage and roads, will not be less than those provided by the Labor Government in 1975-76? 
My contribution to the debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill will relate mainly to the provisions for compulsory postal secret ballots and the limitation on the term of office of elected union officials. However, before I address myself to those clauses I would like briefly to refer generally to the Bill. The Government is introducing legislation which it claims it cannot give effect to. It is claiming that it does not intend to proclaim the legislation other than minor provisions relating to the appointment of an additional judge to the Commonwealth Industrial Court until it has had a chance to hold discussions with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. If this Bill is so important that it is rushed into the Senate during the dying stages of a long, weary and uneventful session it should also be necessary to rush it over to the Governor-General to be proclaimed. 
So it appears that the Government is not genuine in its attempt to improve industrial relations but is introducing this legislation only to provoke the unions into confrontation so that later on when the Government finds its economic measures are failing to get results it will be able to blame the trade union movement. It is quite obvious that the Government will enter into discussions with the Australian Council of Trade Unions with a closed mind, otherwise it would have delayed the legislation until after the discussions. This action by the Government makes a mockery of the claim that it wishes a free and frank discussion with the ACTU. When the legislation was introduced there was a very important omission, due to the haste with which the legislation was prepared. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in the House of Representatives had to amend the Bill to provide that all union members would have the ability to have a postal vote in union elections. The Bill as introduced did not define what a postal vote was. The Government, in its haste to provide in the Bill for what it has been telling the people of Australia it would do if it were elected to Government last year, had forgotten. 
The Bill provides that the Minister shall have the right to intervene in matters coming before the Commission, even matters in which the Government is not a party. Clause 5 of the Bill provides that the Minister shall have power to appeal against a decision of a single member of the Commission whether it is in an arbitrated decision or a consent award or even the certification of an agreement. The intervention by the Minister destroys the long accepted view that persons and organisations not parties to a dispute have no right of audience at all before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The prime objective of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, as limited by the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth, is in respect of the prevention and settling of industrial disputes. I maintain that if this legislation is ever assented to, which I very much doubt, it will not be in the best interests of industrial harmony in Australia. It will be to the contrary. I believe that industrial disputes will increase. The Government should not be introducing this legislation at this stage because in 1975, according to statistics, there was a reduction in the number of days lost through industrial disputes when compared with 1 974. 
I am well aware of what  Senator Wright  has said because that also is in the statistics from which I am quoting. Nevertheless, it is an improvement on a very high year of industrial disputes. I maintain where there is an improvement in the number of days lost through industrial disputes, for whatever reason, the Government should not introduce legislation which will only provoke the unions. That is what this Bill is doing. The Government is now amending the Act by including provisions which will cause industrial disputation. The effect of these clauses will be to force long drawn out disputes. They will also encourage the unions to bypass the Commission and not to have any agreements certified. Consent variations to awards need not go to the Commission. There is no doubt that the unions will take the course of action which they think necessary. The legislation has been deliberately introduced to assist the Government in its aim to reduce real wages and its attempt to contain inflation. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  stated: 
Sustained recovery can hardly come about as long as real wages are maintained at the inflated level which, over the past 3 years, they have attained. 
As a Labor senator I am proud of the last 3-year record of the Australian Labor Party in office. For once, in a very long time, the workers in Australia had a real increase in their wages. Prior to that any increase they achieved was taken away by increasing indirect or direct taxes. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting of the Senate for dinner I was referring to a statement by the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  that wages had to be retained at a reasonable level. It seems to me that the Government is beginning to panic because there have been no real signs that there is any slow-down in inflation or that there is any major reduction in unemployment. The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  during events leading up to last year's election, continually criticised the Labor Government for its economic policies. He also made several promises. He promised that if the Government were elected it would support wage indexation, restore the superphosphate bounty, reduce unemployment and reduce inflation. He made many other promises which so far the Government has been unable to fulfil. 
Contrary to the promises made by  Mr Fraser  during the election campaign, at the first hearing before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on wage indexation he reneged on his election promise. He argued for only a 3.2 per cent increase in wages when the consumer price index increase was 6.4 per cent. However, the Commission on that occasion handed out a severe blow to the Government by rejecting completely the submission put forward by  Mr Fraser  in his attempt to contain wages and granting the full 6.4 per cent increase. Again, during the recent national wage case the Fraser Government intervened before the Commission in an attempt to persuade it to grant a 3.2 per cent increase- the percentage increase in the consumer price index for the previous quarter- only on wages up to the minimum wage. Again the Commission rejected the Government's submission and granted the applicant, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the full 3.2 per cent increase it sought. However, the Court did not grant that increase in accordance with the application. It imposed a cut-off point which it set at the level of average award wages. 
I believe that this Government will try to put the blame on the trade union movement if it fails-there are ominous signs that this will be the case- to fulfil its election promises to contain inflation and to reduce unemployment. It will try to put the blame on the trade union movement for strikes and election ballots that do not please the Government; ballots in which the wrong officials are elected or officials are elected who place too much importance on conditions and the welfare of the members of the union. The Government will try to put the blame on the unions as an excuse for not having a formula that will reduce inflation and also reduce unemployment. The unions are very perturbed that this legislation is only a gimmick. It is being passed through the Parliament for a purpose, namely, so that at a later stage the Government may have it proclaimed if it finds that the measures it has introduced- slashing expenditure here and there and at the same time giving huge handouts to primary industry by way ofthe superphosphate bounty only because it was an election promiseare not effective. However, the Government does not worry about the election promise it made to support full wage indexation. As I have stated previously,  Mr Fraser  very quickly reneged on that promise which he made during the election campaign. 
There are 2 matters in the legislation to which I want to refer. Firstly, the Bill contains a provision that there will be secret postal ballots. So far, no one from the Government side- the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  or any other government memberhas given any reason why the Government wants compulsory secret postal ballots. It is obvious from a reading of the second reading speech and from the comments made by honourable senators that the union the Government is out to get is the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. Reference is made in the Minister's second reading speech to the elections of that union and the percentage of members who vote in those elections. I believe that there are ample provisions in the existing Conciliation and Arbitration Act for members of any organisation registered under that Act to apply for a ballot to be conducted by the Registrar or the Australian Electoral Office. I refer to regulation 139 of the Conciliation and Arbitration regulations. It states, in part: 
For the purposes of section 170 ofthe Act, the number of members of an organisation or branch by whom a request under that section for the conduct of an election for an office in the organisation or the branch, as the case may be, may be made is two hundred and fifty, or one-twentieth of the total number of members of the organisation or the branch, as the case may be, whichever is the less. 
Let me cite the case of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union which has the highest membership of any trade union organisation in Australia. It is estimated that that union has 1 75 000 members. Under existing regulations made under the legislation, the union is required to obtain only 250 signatures to petition for a secret postal ballot. Surely it would be quite easy to obtain 250 signatures from members out of a total membership of 1 75 000- only 0. 1 4 per cent of the total membership- requesting that the elections for officers of the union not be conducted under the terms of the rules of the union but be conducted under the terms of this Act. It does not matter, under this legislation for compulsory postal ballots, whether those ballots are conducted by the Registrar, the Australian Electoral Office or the Minister himself. I venture to say that, whether that election be for the officers of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union or any other union officials who are giving a service to the members, the result of the election would remain exactly the same. I am not concerned with whether only 2 per cent or 95 per cent ofthe membership of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union voted at an election. I venture to say that, irrespective of how the ballot was conducted, whether it be under union rules or under the control of the Registrar, the result of the election would be the same. 
The reason why I say this is that any trade union official in Australia elected to office and doing his job in the interests of the members whom he represents has no worries about how a ballot will be conducted. It is only the officials of unions who have been elected by some devious means through the rules of their organisations and who do not carry out the objectives of their members and look after the welfare of those members who have anything to hide, who have any need to worry and who need to seek protection from the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to retain their jobs. I ask the Minister in his reply to explain to the Senate why urgency exists requiring the introduction of legislation enforcing compulsory postal ballots in respect of union elections when already adequate provisions are made in the regulations and the Act of which any union member may avail himself or herself. 
The last reference that I wish to make to the Bill now being debated concerns the provision seeking to limit the term of office of any elected official of a trade union. We have been given no reason at all why this should be done. As  Senator Button  mentioned here tonight, several applications have been made to the Commonwealth Industrial Court regarding the tenure of office of elected officials of trade unions. On all occasions the Court in its wisdom has rejected such applications and has stated that in its belief the rules of the organisations do not contravene the provisions ofthe Act. 
Let me refer to a recent case between the Australian Workers Union and a member of the South Australian branch of the AWU. This case followed a change in the rules of that union. The term of office which had been 3 years was increased to 5 years. At the convention at which this change in the rules regarding the term of office was agreed to, I opposed the motion proposing the change. Nevertheless we cannot ignore a determination made following an application before the Commonwealth Industrial Court. I refer to the case of  Watson v. the Australian Workers Union  in which the judges heard evidence on a challenge to the decision by the Australian Workers Union to vary the term of office from 3 years to 5 years. This case is reported in the  Federal Law Reports.  At page 357,  Mr Justice  Joske said - 
-It was 1967. At page 357,  Mr Justice  Joske said: 
In order to determine whether the period during which a union official holds his office is so long as to be unreasonable within the meaning of section 140(l)(c) of the Act, the court must consider all the relevant circumstances affecting the union, including rules of the union which bear upon the matter, whether or not they are being challenged. It must consider the rules as they stand, and is not entitled to take into consideration the possibility that the rules may be altered or guess at what the alteration could be or what effect such alteration could have. The size of the union, the extent of territory and number of occupations and awards relating thereto which it covers and the period of time members retain their membership are important considerations, lt must be borne in mind that the officers ofthe union have to carry out important administrative functions and need to be strong enough and experienced enough to be able to control their members so that awards will be obeyed. 

 Mr Justice Joske continued: 
These are all matters to be taken into account from the point of view of stability in the administration of union affairs, which is a most important element for consideration in deciding upon the reasonableness of the period of an official 's term of office. 
He concluded his remarks by stating: 
I have come to the conclusion that, having regard to the size of the union, the duties of its elected officials, and the control over them by members as provided by the rules, their five-year term of office is not unreasonable, notwithstanding that it is a substantially long period of office for persons who are elected representatives. 
-Exactly,  Senator O'Byrne.  That is exactly what it is trying to do. In the same hearing,  Mr Justice  Kerr as he then was- he is now our Governor-General- as reported at page 361 of the  Federal Law Reports  had this to say: 
I have read the judgments of Dunphy and Joske JJ., and agreed with them that the five-year term of office provided for by the rules ofthe Australian Workers Union for holders of elective offices in the union is not unreasonable having regard for the nature ofthe union, its size, the many callings and industries it covers, its widespread geographical coverage, the great numbers of awards it obtains and administers, its complex and extensive administrative problems, the duties of its elected officials and the control over them by members as provided by the rules. 
He said further: 
It is obvious enough that the term of office could be fixed for such a long period of time that the representative nature of the office is effectively destroyed. Yet there must be much room for debate in any particular case as to the point at which the term of office must be regarded as imposing an oppressive, unreasonable or unjust condition upon the members. A five-year term of office, looking at the matter broadly, does not of its own nature appear to me to be oppressive, unreasonable or unjust, and I can readily believe that in the situation in which registered organisations find themselves in this country, operating under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and being involved in an elaborate system of compulsory arbitration, some such organisations might well regard a five-year term of office as most advantageous if strong-minded, constructive, useful and responsible work is to be done by its elected officers. Accordingly, I do not find that the idea of a five-year term of office in itself involves the imposition of an oppressive, unreasonable or unjust condition upon the members of an organisation. 
There we have a fairly recent decision of the Commonwealth Industrial Court which was hearing argument in a case in which a rank and file member of the Australian Workers Union complained that the Union had increased the tenure of office of officials from 3 years to 5 years. The judges of the Commonwealth Industrial Court unanimously agreed that a 5-year term of office was not oppressive, unjust or unreasonable. Yet, in this legislation although we are being asked to concede the rights of organisations to fix their rules and the terms of office of their officials and to conduct their own ballots, whether by postal ballot or secret ballot- which is the way in which most unions do conduct their ballots- we are also being asked to agree that no union should in the future be able to provide in its rules for a term of office for its officials of more than 4 years. I would like to know what right the Commonwealth Government has to interfere in the internal affairs ofthe trade union movement by enforcing a term of office of 4 years on quite a number of unions which at present provide for a term of office of 5 years or 6 years. 
Honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber have had no experience of being officials in the trade union movement. They are probably not even members of any trade union organisation. Therefore they would not know the ramifications and the administrative problems of the trade union movement. It could well be that the affairs of a particular branch of a trade union have become run down as a result of mismanagement by an elected officer or an appointed officer. After a change of officers the new officials of the union would have the problem of rectifying the mistakes. I maintain that this cannot always be done during a 4-year term of office. For this reason I fail to understand why the Government has included in this amendment to the legislation the provision that unions can elect officers for only a 4-year term. 
I have never heard of any request from the trade union movement for a reduction in the term of office holders to 4 years. I do not know of any employer organisation seeking or asking the Government to restrict the term of office to only 4 years. I can only assume that the Government has introduced this legislation because it wants to put it on the shelf and wait to see how the Australian Council of Trade Unions behaves during the next conference that it has with the Government. If, as the Government expects, the ACTU does not accept the economic package of restraint that the Government has introduced I think the Government will then try to bluff the trade union movement by saying that it will proceed to have the legislation proclaimed. 
But it does not matter whether it does because there is no provision in this legislation that can improve the type of ballots that are conducted by many of the major trade union organisations in Australia. I refer firstly to the Waterside Workers Federation. It does not have a secret postal ballot. It has a compulsory ballot in relation to which it gets something like a 95 per cent return in elections. The Miners Federation has a similar type of ballot- it is called a pit head ballot- for its official positions in relation to which it gets an 85 per cent return of votes. This legislation, irrespective of whether postal voting is compulsory, will not achieve the same percentage of votes as either the Waterside Workers Federation or the Miners Federation has achieved. 
I have had considerable experience in regard to union elections conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Office and I am a supporter of those types of elections. During my term of office as Secretary of the Australian Workers Union in South Australia all of the organisation's elections were conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Office. They were not conducted by it compulsorily, as this legislation intends to bring about, but as a result of petitions by the rank and file members of the organisation. When I was the Secretary of the organisation in South Australia 1000 signatures were needed before it could request a ballot to be conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Office. The Labor Government reduced that requirement to 250 signatures. Surely there is no organisation in Australia that could not get the necessary 5 per cent of its membership to sign a petition or the necessary 250 signatures. There is one union in Australia that is registered under this Act that has only 10 members. It would be very simple for one of those members to sign a petition requesting that the elections for the official positions of that organisation be conducted by the Commonwealth Electoral Office. 
I would like the Minister for Education to explain to the Senate when replying in the debate why there has been haste in introducing this legislation and why it is being forced through the Senate so quickly when there are already ample provisions in the trade union movement for members to request a secret postal ballot. I would also like him to explain why the Government has seen for the first time that there is a necessity to include in the legislation a provision that the term of office of a union official cannot exceed 4 years. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and relates to the pensioner medical service. Is it the Government's intention that low income earners who have no dependants and who receive more than $2,605 a year or who are married with a family income of over $4,300 a year will have to pay the Medibank levy? Is it intended that these provisions are to apply to pensioners? If not, can the Minister say at what income level pensioners will find themselves liable to pay the Medibank levy? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and refers to her reply to questions asked by  Senator Grimes  and by me on Tuesday. In answering these questions the Minister stated that single pensioners who qualified for pensioner medical health service cards and who are on an income level of up to $33 a week will have exemption from the Medibank levy. Does this not mean that a single pensioner with an income, inclusive of pension, of up to $76.50 a week- that is $3,978 a year- is exempt from the Medibank levy? Does not the booklet produced by the Commonwealth Department of Health about Medibank say, in relation to pensioners: 'If you pay any income tax you will also have to pay the levy.'? Allowing for the $610 rebate, pensioners are eligible to pay tax when their total income is $2,845 a year. But the statement by the Minister on Tuesday was to the effect that single pensioners with an income of up to $3,978 a year are exempt from the Medibank levy. In view of these facts, will the Minister now admit to the inadequacy of the Government's booklet and relieve many pensioners of anxiety occasioned by the incompetent mistakes in the publication? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security and refer to a question asked of the Minister which appears on page 344 of the Senate  Hansard of  26 August 1 976. The question is about alleged misleading information in a booklet produced by the Commonwealth Department of Health:  How to Choose the Health Insurance Cover That's Right for You.  I ask: What are the results of the investigation promised by the Minister in regard to the inaccuracies in the booklet? Has any action been taken to rectify the mistakes, particularly in reference to pensioners and standard Medibank benefits? 
-Has the Minister for Social Security been made aware of the flood of inquiries about the Medibank levy pouring into the Adelaide office of the Department of Social Security from supporting mothers? Can the Minister explain why supporting mothers are not entitled to pensioner medical service cards so that they can have the same level of income as pensioners before having to pay the Medibank levy? 
-Will the Minister representing the Treasurer ask the Treasurer to advise senators and the public of the level of income at which a lone parent is required to pay the Medibank levy? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Science. I preface it by reminding him of recent rumours of the abolition of the Department of Science and the Minister's stated concern that he, too, was worried about the possible abolition of his Departmentas reported in the  Canberra Times  on 12 May this year. Can the Minister advise the Parliament of the latest developments in regard to the rumoured abolition of his Department? How does the Minister equate this possibility with his Government's so-called and professed concern for science and how it should be working for social goals? 
It is not my intention to delay the proceedings of the Senate for very long, because most of the arguments have been put forward by my colleagues on this side of the Senate. Firstly, I want to correct what I regard as a misstatement by  Senator Baume  who was supported, by way of interjection, by  Senator Walters. Senator Baume  made a statement to the effect that when the Labor Government proposed the Medibank levy of 1.35 per cent of taxable income in December 1974 there was no ceiling. 
-The honourable senator said that there was no ceiling and that the levy went on and on.  Senator Walters  interjected and said that there was no provision in the Labor Party's legislation at that time for a ceiling such as we have now of $150 for a single person and $300 for a family. I want to quote from page 3278 of the Senate  Hansard  of 1 1 December 1 974.  Senator Wriedt,  the then Minister for Agriculture, when speaking in the second reading debate on the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill 1974 [No. 2], stated: 
In that event, it is intended that the rate applied to 1975-76 taxable incomes will be a proportionate part of the annual rate of 1.35 per cent, determined on a time basis. The levy of 1.35 per cent of taxable income will not apply to all taxpayers. At the upper end of the income scale, and on the assumption that the levy will apply for the whole of 1975-76, the maximum amount of levy payable by anyone will be $150. 
So, we have in that speech a distinct rebuttal of what  Senator Baume  and  Senator Walters  said in trying to mislead the Senate in respect of the Labor Party's intention on the levy that was proposed in 1974. 
It was very interesting to listen to what  Senator Baume  had to say today. Obviously, judging by his remarks, he is obsessed with the private funds. He stated categorically that he would get out of Medibank, that he is pleased to do so and that he has joined some very obscure private fund of which not many of us on this side of the Senate have even heard.  Senator Baume  's contribution to this debate today is in complete contrast with what he said during previous debates on this subject in the Senate, particularly during the debate in December 1974 when the Labor Government for the last time proposed a levy which was rejected overwhelmingly by the then Opposition. Now, as  Senator Baume  sees, Medibank is so popular with the people of Australia that the present Government does not dare interfere with it or try to dismantle it. He stated here today that his reason for opposing the Medibank levy in 1974 was so that the Labor Party's national health scheme would fail and would be destroyed. What an attitude from an ex-doctor! 
-He may still be - 
-He is an expractising doctor. 
-The honourable senator would not be the only one on his side of the chamber who, in addition to receiving his parliamentary salary, acts in a private capacity in his profession.  Senator Baume  expressed the same sentiments as appear in the annual report of the Australian Medical Association. Under a bold blue heading 'Medibank', the report states: 
The Association's hard fought campaign against Medibank was still being actively pursued at the beginning of the year under review. 
The report went on to state that the Association had advised all of its members not to bulk bill any of their patients, not even age pensioners. The Association is advocating that its members make their pensioner patients pay the full scheduled fee. Most of the doctors in New South Wales, as we are aware, are charging well above the scheduled fee. So, the Australian Medical Association is advocating that the members of the medical profession in Australia drag every cent they can not only from all their ordinary patients but also from their pensioner patients. 

 Senator Grimes today referred to a speech made in the other place by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  at the third reading stage of the Health Insurance Bill (No. 2). The honourable member is recorded at page 1101 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 15 September 1976 as having said: 
I regret very much that we even have such a thing called Medibank in this country. It was thrust upon us by the previous Minister for Social Security, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  I recall what happened very clearly. It does not matter what you call it, Medibank is a curse. I say this after great thought. 
A point of order was taken, the honourable member was called to order, and the  Deputy Chairman  upheld the point of order. The honourable member continued his remarks by saying: 
It is regrettable that we are in a situation in which we had to promise to keep the scheme going. The Liberal Party is a party of honour. We will keep the scheme going. But so far as I am concerned, I do not care what name is applied to Medibank; anything proposed in relation to Medibank by the ALP must be bad. 
Incidentally, the name of the honourable member for Griffith is  Mr Donald  Cameron, but he is no relation of mine, for which I am very pleased. I believe that those remarks by the honourable member for Griffith are indicative of the sentiments of most honourable senators opposite. The only difference is that the honourable member for Griffith stated outright what he thought about Medibank whereas others on the Government side are pretending now that they want Medibank to survive. 

 Senator Grimes also mentioned the confusion, worry and anxiety that has been caused by the meddling of this Government with Medibank. It is a catastrophe and a disaster that the Government of the day should be worrying the people about a health care scheme. I believe that health care is far too serious a matter to be used as a political football, as this Government is now doing. Prior to Medibank coming into operation on 1 July 1975 the medical profession, the private insurance companies, the Press and the then Opposition denigrated and condemned the scheme. Doctors in their consulting rooms told pensioners that under Labor's socialised medical scheme after 1 July they would have no right to come to see their own doctor because their doctor would be chosen by the socialist Labor Government. Within 15 months of the introduction of Medibank 95 per cent of the people welcomed Medibank and wanted to keep it, but they do not want the changes that have been forced upon them by the present Government. 

 Senator Baume seems to have changed his attitude towards a levy. He was violently opposed to the introduction of a 1.35 per cent levy in 1974, which would have had the same ceiling as that of the levy now proposed by this Government, that is, $150 for each taxpayer. Today he supports a levy which will cost more than double the levy that we sought to introduce in 1974. The proposed levy of 2.5 per cent of taxable income will cost a taxpayer on average weekly earnings more than double what it would have cost him under Labor's scheme in 1974. For example, the annual income of a male employee on average weekly earnings of $180,30 would be about $9,300. Under the present taxation scales the 2.5 per cent levy will be based on practically the whole income. The only deductions that will be allowable before the tax levy applies will be contributions to a trade union movement, some gifts to charitable organisations and some interest that might be paid on home loans. So actually a wage earner today receiving average weekly male earnings would be paying the 2.5 per cent levy on $9,300 a year. This would mean that his total levy would amount to $232.50 a year. 
In 1974 under the previous taxation schedules taxpayers could deduct amounts for a dependent wife, dependent children, medical costs, council and water rates, superannuation, education and a lot of other expenses from their taxable income before the imposition of the levy. As I said, a wage earner earning average male weekly earnings of $ 1 80.30 will pay under the proposed levy $232.50 a year, whereas that same wage earner in 1974 under Labor's proposed 1.35 per cent levy would have paid only approximately $120 a year. I repeat that under the Government's proposed 2.5 per cent levy a taxpayer on average weekly earnings will pay more than double the amount he would have paid under Labor's proposals in 1974. 
I want also to support the views of  Senator Brown.  I share his concern that the Government is endeavouring by subtle means to destroy Medibank. I am very concerned because many people, particularly in South Australia, have contacted me and are very worried about what is going to happen. Is it any wonder that they are worried when the Government put out a pamphlet at a cost of $ 1-50,000 to.the taxpayers which was out of date a month after its distribution because the Government decided that it was going to introduce Medibank Private? The Commonwealth Department of Health put out another booklet, quite a number of copies of which mysteriously arrived at the Commonwealth Parliament Offices in Adelaide for distribution. After looking at the first couple of pages, particularly page 4, it was obvious that the information in this booklet was completely misleading and inaccurate. That was one of the reasons why I decided to participate in this debate on the proposed Medibank levy. Questions asked over the past two or three weeks by honourable senators from this side of the chamber have not been answered. I do not know whether the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has referred the questions that were directed to her to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  or whether  Senator Cotton  has referred the questions that were directed to him to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  Whether they have or not, no replies have been given to any of the questions that have been asked regarding the proposed Medibank levy. 
-Yes, the booklet entitled 'How to Choose the Health Insurance Cover That's Right For You . . .' that was put out by the Commonwealth Department of Health and is dated August 1976 is incorrect. Page 4 of the booklet contains 3 headings: 'A Pensioner', 'A Low Income Earner' and A Defence Force Member or a Repatriation Beneficiary'. The booklet states: 
If you're a pensioner who receives only your pension, you will not have to pay any levy for Standard Medibank benefits. This will include many people who are entitled to pensioner health benefits. 
However, if you receive any extra money you may have to pay the levy. 
The booklet continues: 
If you are in any doubt about your position, you should seek advice from a Taxation Office, but generally speaking, if you pay any income tax you will also have to pay the levy. 
That last statement is completely false. We know now as a result of information from the Taxation Office- we could not get the information from Ministers in the Senate- that a pensioner will pay income tax at a much lower level of income before that pensioner pays the Medibank levy. The amount is approximately $800 a year. The information in this booklet is completely false. That inaccuracy has not been remedied by Government Ministers nor has the booklet been corrected. As a consequence of the mistakes in the booklet, I have thrown into the wastepaper basket the balance of the booklets provided to my office. 
Is it any wonder that we cannot get answers to simple questions in the Senate. Actually, we knew the answers but we were testing the Ministers to see whether they knew them. Is it any wonder that officers of the Department of Social Security, the Taxation Office and Medibank are inundated with inquiries to the extent that telephone exchanges have been overloaded and jammed. People are seeking answers to ordinary, simple questions to which any honourable senator on this side could respond. Apparently on the Government side the answers are not known. It is for this reason that the Australian people are completely confused and bewildered as to whether they must pay the levy, how much they must pay and other details associated with the proposal. One would have thought, after the Government had realised the mistakes that were made in this pamphlet, that it would make some effort to issue a correction so that people could be advised how they stood in relation to the Medibank levy. That was not the case. People have been left in ignorance to flounder around seeking in the best way that they can to obtain the information from the Department of Social Security, the Taxation Office or Medibank. 
By way of interjection,  Senator Tehan  suggested that Opposition senators should read the explanatory memorandum. I accepted his invitation. I read it again as I thought there might be something in it that was a little more enlightening than the answers that we are used to receiving from Ministers. One section of the proposal is not even explained in the memorandum. I refer to the lone parent. The memorandum does state that a lone parent will pay the common levy of 2.5 per cent up to a maximum of $300, which is the same is a family unit will pay. However, there is a difference. The lone parent is exempted from the Medibank levy if his or her taxable income is less than $3,790 a year; but the exemption from the levy for the family unit is a taxable income of under $4,299 a year. 
The lone parent may be a supporting mother, a deserted wife or a wife who has deserted her husband and who does not qualify for a widow's pension but does qualify for a supporting mother's benefit. The lone parent could be a wage earner who is not a recipient of any social welfare payments. If a husband and wife with a combined income up to $4,299 are to be exempted from paying the levy, surely a single parent should be able to earn up to that level of exemption when supporting either dependent children under 16 years of age or dependent students under 25 years of age. I would like explained to me at a later stage by what reasoning the Government makes this distinction and discriminates against a lone parent. 
I share the concern expressed by  Senator Brown  that Medibank will be changed further. The. Government has already made drastic changes to Medibank in favour of the private health funds. We know that all Government senators support the private health funds. I doubt that any Government senator at present in the chamber or any Government senator who elsewhere has not continued to contribute to a private health fund since Medibank came into operation on 1 July of last year. I am pleased that some Government senators have admitted by way of interjection that they are contributors to the private funds. 
I take it that some of those contributions from Government senators were responsible for the huge profit of $ 15m which one private fund was able to amass in the last 12 months. As there are more than 100 private funds in existence in 
Australia, what enormous reserves of capital they have accrued, even if each makes only half that profit, by misleading the Australian people in 1975 into believing that Medibank would fail and that they must maintain their membership of private funds as doctors would not treat patients unless they were in the private funds. The Australian people were deceived by the present Government, when it was in Opposition, which was supported by the Australian Medical Association and the private funds. 
The reason why the Australian people were told it was in their best interests to remain in the private funds is obvious now. This was proposed so that the private funds could accumulate huge reserves of capital. The private funds knew in advance that the then Opposition, when elected to government, would introduce a levy and would create Medibank Private and allow it to compete partly with the private funds. I say 'partly' because  Senator Baume  in his contribution boasted how competition is such a great thing. Competition is all right if it is fair. But when the Government introduced the Medibank Private scheme it announced weeks and weeks in advance of statements from the private funds what contributions to Medibank Private would be. This gave the private funds the decided advantage of being able to undercut those contribution levels. Further, I understand that Medibank Private will not cover the gap between the 85 per cent of medical fees which Medibank or private funds will refund and the total fees doctors will charge; the private funds have the privilege of covering that 15 per cent gap which Medibank will not cover. The private funds received an advantage as they were able to wait for the Government to announce what the Medibank tables and charges would be and then were able to undercut Medibank by using the huge reserves that they had accumulated in the last 12 months. 
In the few minutes left to me I want to refer briefly to what I think may happen in the future. If the Government is correct in its expectation that 60 per cent of people will opt out of Medibank, leaving in Medibank pensioners, low income earners and others who usually represent a fairly high health risk, it will then proudly say that it told everyone that Medibank was a failure. It will then dismantle Medibank and leave health care to the private funds. Then we will be back to what we had in the way of health care before 1 July 1975. In Australia at that time one million people out of a population of 13.5 million had absolutely no health insurance. Those people were migrants, low income earners or people with a number of children. In addition, before July 1975 pensioners were regarded only as second rate citizens and did not receive the same benefits in respect of health care as contributors to private funds received. Nor did they have the same health care provisions as people covered by the supplementary medical scheme that gave to private funds a registration of low income earners. Therefore we of the Opposition are very concerned to see that the Government is not allowed to get away with the proposals that it is putting forward. Unless we keep the people of Australia well advised about what they are getting into they could well be caught and in the future they could well have no option, no choice of health scheme other than that offered by the private funds. 
We know the tactics adopted by the private funds in the past. Every 3 or 4 months they decided to increase their rates. In one year alone private funds increased their rates at least 4 times. My advice to any people in South Australia seeking information has been to get out of the private funds and into Medibank because Medibank has the best to offer. Out of all the health care schemes the Medibank standard scheme provides at least 85 per cent of the medical fees charged by a medical practitioner with, I understand, a maximum of $5, and it also provides the best hospital care available in Australia. No hospitals in Australia can compete with the standard of ward accommodation offered by the public hospitals. New hospitals have been built in South Australia but I defy anybody from the other side, particularly Liberal senators, to name any private hospital in South Australia that can provide the standard of hospital care that is provided in public hospitals in that State. 
The tactics and devices are obvious. The propaganda which has appeared in the Press, aimed at trying to persuade people to join the private funds, is false. The cheapest health care available today is the standard Medibank care which can be obtained for a maximum, I think, of $2.90 for a single taxpayer and $5.80 for a family unit. No better hospital care is available in Australia than that provided by the public hospitals and the doctors attached to them. If a person is injured in a road accident, or at home or at his place of employment he is not taken to a private hospital; he is admitted to a public hospital and it is there that the best care is available. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Prior to the suspension to the sitting I was referring to the health care options available to consumers. I think it is only fair that I quote one or two of them. Firstly there is the standard Medibank cover. A 2.S per cent levy of taxable income is payable. This levy applies up to a total yearly income of $12,000. An ordinary wage earner pays the 2.5 per cent levy on his salary. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  on his parliament salary only, is paying a levy of less than 0.5 per cent. I suppose if the profits made from his property were added to his parliamentary salary he would be paying a lot less than 0.5 per cent by way of a Medibank levy. 
I think it was  Senator Messner  who said that it was the efficiency of the private funds that enabled them to undercut Medibank Intermediate and Medibank Private rates. Of course, that statement cannot be backed up by facts. It is quite easy to make statements in this place when one does not have to prove them. For the sake of the record, I want to cite figures showing that the opposite applies. For example, the administration costs of Medibank accounted for only 4 per cent of the total value of claims processed, compared with 14 per cent for private health funds. A private fund has a staff of 900 to process 10 500 claims a day, whereas Medibank, with a staff of 960, paid out 50 000 claims a day. If honourable senators opposite can read into that statement that the private funds are more efficient than Medibank, then I have misquoted the figures. There is no evidence at all that the private funds in Australia are more efficient than Medibank. In fact the opposite is the case. 
Medibank has proved its efficiency. The administrative costs of Medibank for the first 12 months were less than the amount appropriated for them. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the profits for the last 12 months of Victoria's largest health insurance fund, the Hospital Benefits Association. In its annual report released yesterday the  chairman  of the fund,  Mr Skewes,  stated that the fund had made a record profit of $ 15m for the year. It was pleasing to note from page 1 1 of the Melbourne  Sun  that the number of contributors to the fund fell by 166 286 during the year. We on this side of the chamber hope that there will be a further drop in the number of contributors to that fund in the next financial year. In referring to the options available to people in Australia, I said prior to the suspension of the sitting that Medibank Standard cover is the most economical and provides the best standard of health cover in Australia. I completely refute the suggestion in the Melbourne  Age  yesterday. Under the big bold black headline ' Boycott Medi, doctors urged ', it said: 
Private health insurance funds have called on doctors to tell patients to leave Medibank and take out private insurance. 
The obvious reason why the newspapers are supporting the private funds and why the doctors are urging contributors to get out of Medibank and to rejoin the funds is so that in future doctors in practice will be able to hide their profits. We know that over the years doctors have hidden their profits. Whilst Medibank has been in operation, in various States there have been instances of doctors rotting the scheme and making up to $ 1 50,000 a year by devious means that are available to them. In my State of South Australia, when a case was being heard before the court the doctor was successful in preventing his name from being published. 
I believe that the Medibank Standard fund is the ideal fund for the average Australian worker. In the past the people of Australia have been misled into believing that it was necessary to obtain some extra hospital cover. Most men to whom I speak are quite satisfied with standard ward care in a public hospital. The only exceptions are members of the Government Parties, who do not like the idea of sharing a public ward with an ordinary wage earner, and executives and members of such organisations as the chambers of manufactures, who like to get into a private room and discuss amongst themselves and with their friends how they can further exploit the workers whom they employ. From my observation- this is where I think the consumers ought to have an option- most housewives prefer either an intermediate ward in a public hospital or a shared or private room in a private hospital. I would not deny those people that option; but, as  Senator Grimes  correctly pointed out earlier, if they want this luxury care in a private room in a private hospital, with extra staff to look after them, flowers provided twice a day and all the luxury care that goes with a private room in a private hospital, they should have to pay the maximum amount for that luxury. 
-They are not doing it, because they are using the surpluses of their funds, which were taken from the contributors during the last 12 months, to provide this luxury care in private rooms in private hospitals. We know that the private funds will not be able to compete with Medibank for many more months. It will not be long before the private funds are coming to the Government and asking for permission to increase their contributions for the intermediate coverage or the private room coverage in their top tables, and seeking an increase in contributions as they did prior to Medibank coming into operation in July last year. So, it is only a temporary arrangement. They are trying to fool the contributors to the funds into believing that it is necesesary to take out private hospital coverage. No one on the Government side has explained the value in taking out extra hospital coverage with the private funds. I support the amendment so ably moved by  Senator Grimes  this afternoon. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen a statement by the  President  of the Voluntary Health Insurance Association,  Mr Moon,  which appeared in today's  Australian  claiming that only 25 per cent of the population was relying on the Medibank levy as its only form of health cover? Can the Minister say whether there are reliable figures available to substantiate this claim? If not, will the Minister agree that  Mr Moon  is irresponsibly misleading the public with premature and inaccurate statements? 
-My question to the Minister representing the Treasurer follows a question asked yesterday by  Senator McLaren.  Is it a fact that a husband who is separated from his wife and has dependent children is liable to pay the Medibank levy up to a ceiling of $300 a year unless he has insurance with a private health fund? Is his wife exempt from the levy although her income is above the maximum allowed to low income earners? Will the Minister seek the information from the Treasurer and inform the Senate? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Has there been any change in policy in respect of a married pensioner's entitlement to a standard rate pension if the pensioner is hopsitalised for a long term? If so, what are the present qualifications applicable in assessing the right of a married pensioner to the standard rate pension and supplementary benefits if the pensioner is a long term patient in a nursing home or hospital? 
I ask the Minister for Education: Has his attention been drawn to numerous reports, including the headlines in yesterday's  Australian  newspaper, calling for government initiatives to combat Australia's illiteracy problem? Does the Minister acknowledge the presence of such a problem in Australia? If so, what is the Government prepared to do about it? 
I ask the 
Minister representing the Attorney-General a question. I refer to 2 meetings to be held in Adelaide next week- one at the Adelaide Town Hall and the other at the Norwood Town Hall- on the subject of last year's constitutional crisis and democracy in Australia. Is the Minister aware that articles written by Adelaide journalists in relation to these matters will not be published by their newspapers? Is this not political censorship? Will the Government take the initiative to ensure that the Press Council can handle this type of censorship? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to the delay in the distribution of the 1976-77 Adelaide telephone directory and to the fact that this directory has been available here at 
Parliament House for approximately 4 weeks. Will the Minister make inquiries as to when the distribution of the Adelaide telephone directory will be completed and as to what has been the cause of the delay in the distribution which is almost 2 months later than usual? 
Perhaps I can put it to the Minister more directly. Under the collegiate electoral system of voting do all officers of the college have to be elected by direct vote of the rank and file? The other question which I can perhaps put at the same time is this: Will the Minister make available figures showing how many Federal unions registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, and the number of their members have complied with the provisions of the Cameron amendments? The Minister has already mentioned only a few insignificant unions with very small memberships. I am not referring to the United Furniture Trades Union or to the Operative Plasterers and Plaster Workers Federation of Australia. Their total membership would probably be only 100 000 members. Can the Minister provide the number of organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which comply with those provisions of that Act which refer to the election of officers, and the membership of those organisations? I ask those questions so that a comparison can be made between those unions that have not complied and those unions that have complied. 
I rise to refer briefly to some of the comments that have been made by honourable senators on the Government side in relation to the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 2) which we are debating. My colleagues on this side of the chamber have explained fully the intention of the legislation. I think they have systematically destroyed the weak, unconvincing arguments that have been put up by the Government in support of its claim that this legislation is necessary.  Senator Hall,  who has recently returned to the fold of the Liberal Party, during the course of his 15 minute debate, did not say anything about the purpose of the legislation to introduce a 2-way system of voting into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Not one Government senator mentioned this. As usual, most of  Senator Hall's  time was taken up with a tirade of condemnation of the trade union movement, union officials and supporters of the Australian Labor Party because they have not assisted his supporters to increase their profits at the expense of the workers.  Senator Hall  mentioned the South Australian Minister for Labor and Industry, the honourable Jack Wright. He referred to the fact that the South Australian Government is to appropriate $4m to alleviate the unemployment position in South Australia, a situation that the Federal Government has failed to improve despite its promises during the election campaign last year that it would reduce unemployment and inflation. After nearly 12 months in office, we see that it has failed in both respects.  Mr Wright  had a perfect right to impose a condition that people employed with the money allocated by the State Labor Government should work with the local councils or with the Highways Department under the same conditions as applied to employees of the State Labor Government. If he had not done that  Senator Hall  would have been the first one in this place to criticise the State Labor Government for allowing employees who were doing part-time work to alleviate the unemployment situation better conditions of employment than applied to employees of the State Labor Government. 

 Senator Hall also mentioned a ballot that was conducted by the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union in South Australia. He said that an organiser was elected by a vote of one per cent of the 15 000 members of the union. I do not know whether he thought that was good or bad. He did not elaborate on his statement. I can assure him that under the legislation he will be supporting later a federal council or a college of a union with a membership of 180 000 members, similar to the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, could appoint or elect its federal secretary provided the majority of the members of the council supported the one candidate. For instance,  Mr Maynes,  the Federal  President  of the Federated Clerks Union, was elected to his position with a majority of the vote of the members of its Federal Council. What percentage of the membership of the Federated Clerks Union serves on that Federal Council? I think the union would have a membership of about 85 000 and the number on the Council would probably be 0.005 per cent of the total membership.  Senator Hall  criticised the way that the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union in South Australia elected an organiser who is not on the management committee of the organisation. He does not have the control of the day to day discussions, administration and formulation of policies or the responsibility that the committee of management has. 
The amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act that the Government is proposing do not give the rank and file member the same participation in his union's elections as he had before. They do not give him any democratic right to elect all the full time officers of the union. As a matter of fact, the rank and file need to elect only 85 per cent of the members of the council. The 85 per cent can then elect the other 15 per cent. The council can then elect its federal secretary, the most powerful official of any organisation of the trade union movement in Australia. It can also elect the federal president of the organisation, who is also a very powerful official of any trade union. He is so powerful that he has an influential say in the deliberations of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. We often find that the general secretary or the federal president of an organisation is also on the interstate executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
Where is this great democracy and rank and file participation in the election of the officials of a union that  Senator Hall  is talking about? It is a lot of nonsense. We know from the debate that has taken place on the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill today that there is only one purpose behind the amendments that have been put forward and that is to make certain that the right wing officials of the trade union movement do not have to face the rank and file in a ballot.  Mr Maynes,  the Federal  President  of the Federated Clerks Union, has never faced the rank and file of that union in a ballot for his position as Federal  President.  The union of which I have been a member for many years elects all its full time officers by a direct vote of the rank and file. Most of the bigger trade unions, such as the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, also elect all their full time officers by a direct vote of the rank and file members. As a matter of fact, more than 80 per cent of the trade unions elect their officers by that method. But if this legislation is passed there is nothing to prevent the Australian Workers Union, the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union or any other organisation which has changed its rules to comply with the alterations that the Labor Government introduced in 1973, to revert to the 2 systems of voting. In that situation we would be reversing the trend of giving rank and file membership a direct vote in electing the full time officials of the union. 
During  Senator Harradine  's contribution to the debate he said that when the Labor Government amended the Act in 1973 to make provision for direct participation in voting by the rank and file members no reference was made to the ACTU or to any of the peak organisations. That statement, of course, is completely untrue. As  Chairman  of our Manpower Committee I know that correspondence was sent and telephone calls were made to the ACTU asking that organisation to let us have any comments it would like to make regarding the introduction of the legislation that was proposed. None of the unions, nor the ACTU, criticised or disagreed with the proposals put forward in 1973. It is obvious that although  Senator Harradine  claimed to be on the interstate executive of the ACTU at the time he was left out of its confidence and was not notified that the ACTU had been invited to call at Canberra and let the Manpower Committee have its views on the proposed legislation before it was brought in. 
It is also strange that in 1973 not one of the then Opposition senators opposed the legislation to change the Act so that the rank and file members would have a greater say in the election of their officers. Now, almost 3 years later, there has been a change of heart because pressure has been put on the Government by the right wing, extremist unions to change the legislation back before 13 November, which is the last day on which unions can have their rules registered to comply with the amendments of 1973. No arguments have been advanced as to why we have to have 2 systems of voting- the collegiate system and the rank and file system- in the election of union officials. Provided the rank and file members have a direct vote in the election of all their full-time officers to the Federal council, executive or college, we do not disagree with that body having the right to elect part-time officers. That is already in the legislation that this Government is now seeking to destroy. 
I want to refer briefly to the remarks of the two other speakers from the Government side.  Senator Jessop  did not speak very much about the Bill; so his speech was typical of that of the other Government senator from South Australia. He indulged in a tirade of abuse and union bashing, as usual, and talked about strikes on the wharves and all sorts of other things. But he did refer to an undemocratic provision in the Cameron amendments of 1973. It is quite easy to make these wild statements in condemnation of a provision in the Act, in the hope that one will not be called upon to prove why the provision is undemocratic. In that regard I have to say that 

 Senator Jessop failed to convince anybody who was listening to his speech, or the Senate, that there was any merit in the statements that he made. 
During the debate, when  Senator O  'Byrne was speaking,  Senator Jessop  by interjection said that a lot of rabbits are running the country. I do not disagree with  Senator Jessop  's reference to a lot of rabbits running the country if he is referring to the present Government. I agree with him on that basis. But, if for any reason he was referring to somebody else and if it should be the trade union movement, I have to be in complete disagreement and I doubt very much that the trade unionists in South Australia, particularly in the Port Augusta-Whyalla-Port Pirie area which  Senator Jessop  represented for a time, would appreciate his reference to them as rabbits trying to run the country. 
The Opposition has tried for many months to get from the Government information on how many trade unions registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act have altered their rules to comply with the 1 973 amendments. So far that information is not available. We also have tried to find out how many unions, although there are only 2 days left in which to comply with the 1 973 amendments to the Act, have ignored the provisions of the Act and have not applied to the Commonwealth Industrial Registrar to register their rules and to change their rules to comply with the provisions of the Act? Perhaps in reply the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  will be able to give this information which we have been seeking for many months but which so far we have been unable to obtain. 
My understanding is that most of the unions, representing probably 95 per cent of the trade unionists in Australia which have Federal awards and are registered under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, have already changed their rules to comply with the Act. If that is so, it is quite obvious that the Government is looking only to that minority group of the trade union movement which has not changed its rules to comply with the Act. I think it would be safe to say that the officials of those unions which have not changed their rules to comply with the 1973 amendments to the Act have not made the changes because they are afraid of what might happen if they had to face the rank and file in a ballot for the positions which they hold. Any trade union official, whether he be a branch organiser, a branch secretary, a Federal secretary or a Federal president, who is doing his job capably and attending to the job of looking after the conditions of employment of the rank and file members of his organisation, has no fear about the method which is used to conduct the ballot to elect officials of the union because he knows very well that the rank and file members of the union know about his performance during his term of office. If he has done his job in the interest of the members he has no worries about re-election. A different situation applies, of course, in respect of the Federal President of the Federated Clerks Union, who is not elected by the rank and file members of that organisation and who knows very well that unless this Government comes to his rescue and changes the Act before 13 November his position as Federal President is doomed. 
The only other matter I want to mention relates to the rank and file members having the right to elect their officials. I think the Government is breaking a fundamental objective of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which includes in section 2 A the words 'to promote goodwill in industry'. Surely, after all these years, when the unions have complied with the Act as amended so that their rules were completely in compliance with the Act before it was amended, this legislation will create unrest and disharmony in the trade union movement. I would have thought that  Senator Steele  Hall and  Senator Jessop,  who have criticised the trade union over disputes, stoppages and so on, would have been among the first to support legislation that sought to create harmony within the trade union movement and not to reverse the legislation which was supported unanimously by the then Senate Opposition and which changed the Act so as to give greater participation by the rank and file members in the election of the officials of their union. This goodwill of the trade union membership I believe will be jeopardised by the reintroduction of legislation that makes the Conciliation and Arbitration Act far worse than it was before the changes in 1973. My colleagues on the Opposition side of the chamber have already mentioned how the amendments were introduced in the other place during the Committee stage of the Bill. They were introduced in such haste that although a Government supporter was speaking in the second reading debate, he was not aware that amendments would be moved to the Bill in the Committee stage. 
We now have a situation where the Bill that was passed in the House of Representatives allows the rank and file members to elect only 85 per cent of the full time officers of the federal council or executive council or the college. That council can then elect the other 15 per cent, including the federal president or the federal secretary. Then that council has far greater powers. It can elect all the delegates for a federal conference of that union without any reference at all to the rank and file members of the union. If that is democracy, I am completely mistaken. 
Let us have a look at the federal council of an organisation. As I am more conversant with the Australian Workers Union than most other unions I shall refer to that organisation. The Federal Council of the Australian Workers Union is elected with members coming from States on an equal basis, the same as the Senate. Each State has the same representation with 2 executive councillors from each State, on the same basis as we have in this place where we have 10 senators from each State. Although Tasmania may have a membership of only 4000 or 5000 in the Australian Workers Union, it elects the same number of Executive Council officers, two to the Federal Council as does New South Wales or Queensland. Queensland has probably 50 000 or 60 000 members and New South Wales has a membership of approximately 40 000. So how is it possible' in a umon like the Australian Workers Union to have any big State, irrespective of the membership of the organisation take control of the smaller States? Smaller States have exactly the same representation on the Executive Council as the larger States. I am proud to support the fact that at all times the Australian Workers Union has elected all its full time officials. 
When there were challenges to the provisions of our rules which were claimed to be repressive, unreasonable or unjust, we were told by the Commonwealth Industrial Court that we would have to amend those rules. One of the rules provided that the term of office of officials of the Australian Workers Union be for a period of 5 years and if any full time officer died, resigned or was removed from office during that 5 years there had to be a ballot by the rank and file members not only of the Executive Council but also the whole of the membership of the 150 000 members of the Australian Workers Union throughout Australia to fill that vacancy within 12 months. How different that is from these proposals that we have been considering this afternoon and tonight by which the Government wants the bigger unions to be able to elect their top officers with this tremendous power to stay there indefinitely. 
I am very disappointed that those honourable senators sitting on the Government side of the chamber tonight, who supported the Cameron legislation in 1973, have no evidence whatsoever and no reason to show that the Act should be changed before the deadline comes into effect on 30 November. It appears that they are now going into effect on 30 November. It appears that they are now going to support unanimously this legislation simply to please two or three of the right wing unions in Australia which have not complied with the legislation that the Government introduced in 1973. 
I want to raise 2 matters in relation to clause 3 of the Bill. I raise the first one because the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  seemed to be under the impression that I misunderstood the legislation. As I see it, any person elected to a number of offices by a direct voting effort is eligible to be elected to a federal council or an executive council. For instance, an officer could be a member of a State branch committee of management but could be a State branch secretary. Having been elected to that office by a direct voting method he would be eligible to be appointed to the federal council, provided he did not represent any more than 15 per cent. 
-Yes. He is elected as an officer of a branch. He could be an organiser, a branch committee man, or even a trustee or the branch secretary. He is then eligible to be elected to fill one of the 1 5 per cent vacancies on the federal council. 
The other point I make is that in the same clause of the Bill it is sought to delete paragraph (d) of the definition of 'Office'. The present wording of paragraph (d) is as follows: 
Every office within the organisation or branch for the filling of which an election is required to be conducted within the organisation or branch and any position within the organisation or branch involving duties substantially similar to the duties of such an office; 
The proposal is to delete the latter part of the paragraph, which is the most important part of it. It is proposed to delete the words 'and any position within the organisation or branch involving duties substantially similar to the duties of such an office'. As I see it, that would mean that the federal council of an organisation could appoint, say, a social welfare worker and he would then be free to do any work within the organisation, even if it were substantially the same work being performed by an officer. I think the proposed amendment to that paragraph diminishes the responsibility of the federal council to appoint officers to do work that is substantially the same as the work being done by an officer. The safeguard is being removed. It is for that reason that I ask the Minister for an explanation of my first point and then for an explanation as to why the Bill is being amended to delete those important words from paragraph (d) of the definition of Office'. 
The Minister overlooked the question which I thought I had put to him directly. He did not refer to it in his reply. Under the collegiate system of voting do all members of the college have to be elected by a direct rank and file vote of members? 
Yes. The Minister has mentioned on 2 occasions that the Federated Ironworkers Association has not complied with the Cameron amendments to the Act. Can he advise whether  His Excellency,  the Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr, drew up the rules and constitution of the Federated Ironworkers Association? 
I support the amendment moved by  Senator Grimes.  No adjustment to compensation payments under the Seamen's Compensation Act has occurred since 16 November 1974 when the last amendments to the legislation were introduced by the Labor Government of the day. Since then, and particularly since the recent increases in social welfare benefits, an employee who is injured would have been nearly as well off from June of this year until these increases become effective by receiving the sickness benefit as he would have been by receiving workmen's compensation under the 2 Acts. 
I believe that the relativity between what an employee should receive when injured in the course of his employment and what he would receive by way of sickness benefits has been eroded in the period as is demonstrated by the gap revealed through a comparison of the 2 payments. For instance, a person with a wife and 2 children receiving sickness benefit from 1 June of this year- that is the date to which our amendment seeks to alter the date in this legislation from which the new payments will commencewould receive from 1 September 1976 a total of $83.50 a week under the Social Security Act in the form of sickness benefit. A workman who is injured in the course of his employment would receive from 1 September under the proposed rates which are not to be made retrospective $86 a week only. I invite the Committee to consider the increases that have taken place as a result of wage movements since 1974. As  Senator Grimes  pointed out, since the Labor Party was in office, when annual adjustments in respect of workmen's compensation payments were made, payments of compensation to seamen have not kept pace with other benefits payments. It is for that reason that I believe retrospectivity at least to 1 June of this year should be granted. 
Perhaps when she replies the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  may be able to advise how long it will be after assent is given to the Bill before recipients of workmen's compensation receive the new benefits. Some of these people have been on workmen's compensation for a long time. They are still receiving the old benefits which, as I previously pointed out, are little more than what they would receive in the form of sickness benefit. The current payments received under the existing compensation Act by a single person, a married person without dependants or a married person with one, two, three or four dependants are well below the ordinary rate of pay such persons would receive if they had not been injured and were still in employment. I ask the Minister to give some assurance that there will be no further delay in paying to those employees who have been injured and who are still on workmen's compensation and also those employees who have returned to the workforce but who were in receipt of workmen's compensation prior to 1 September of this year the retrospective benefits to which they are entitled. 
There is only one matter I want to raise. Although it is not dealt with specifically in the Bill, it is dealt with in the existing Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act in sections which are taken into account in the Bill. Section 5 of the Act defines dependant'. Paragraph (c) of the definition reads: 
a woman who, throughout the period of three years immediately before the date of the death of the employee, although not legally married to him, lived with him as his wife on a permanent and  bona fide  domestic basis, 
I do not think there has been any change in this legislation in that definition of 'dependant'. 'Dependant' is defined much more clearly in the South Australian Workmen's Compensation Act 1971-1973 which states that the term 'wife of a workman' includes a woman who is not married to the workman but who is living with the workman on a permanent basis as his  de facto  wife. So under the existing legislation a  de facto  wife has to live in that relationship for a period of 3 years before she is regarded as a dependant of the worker; whereas under the South Australian Act she is a dependant provided it is established that she is living as the  de facto  wife in a permanent relationship. Whether this matter is dealt with in the legislation, I am not certain. I have not been able to find it. There is no reference to it in the second reading speech. If my memory serves me correctly, the Social Services Act was amended and this archaic provision under that Act was amended so that a  de facto  wife did not have to live in such a relationship for a period of 3 years before she became entitled to social security benefits as the wife of a  de facto  husband. Perhaps the Minister could explain whether the definition of 'dependant' has been amended in the legislation. If it has not been amended, why not? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Yesterday in answer to questions by  Senator Georges  and  Senator Brown  the Minister stated that the Social Services Act provided that the Director-General must be satisfied that reasonable steps have been taken to obtain employment before a benefit is payable; that in respect of those already in the work force, their individual application to the Commonwealth Employment Service is evidence of their taking steps to obtain employment for the purposes of the Act; and that, in respect of school leavers, as a class, the benefit would not be paid during the long vacation. Does not section 107 of the Act, which is the relevant section, refer to a person in the singular and his application for benefit? Does it not refer to the fact that the Director-General should be satisfied that such a person has taken reasonable steps to obtain work? If that is the case, does the Minister not agree that a denial of such benefits to a class of people, because of the Government's general criteria excludes this individual assessment which is required by the Act? Accordingly, does the Minister not agree that the Government's criteria could well be invalid? Will the Minister undertake to review the harsh and arbitrary guidelines that have been set? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and relates to school leavers and their claims for special benefit. I ask: Has the Minister issued instructions for the speedy processing of special benefit claims by school leavers seeking work who claim hardship? As the normal waiting period for the assessment of special benefit is some weeks, will she advise the young people who need a sustainable family or personal income to register now and submit their circumstances to the Director-General for a quick decision? 
-My question to the Minister for Social Security relates to the family allowances paid to mothers and the whole range of benefits for dependent children paid to pensioners, supporting mothers or recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits. Is it a fact that, the payment of benefits under this scheme to full-time students ceases on notification by the student that he or she has left school? If so, and since the Government policy is that such students are not regarded as unemployed for unemployment benefit purposes until 15 February 1977, will the Minister take steps to eradicate this inconsistency? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many official trips has the Prime Minister undertaken since 13 December 1975. 
What was the period of each trip and where did the Prime Minister visit. 
How many people (a) accompanied the Prime Minister on each trip, or any parts thereof; (b) what were their names; and (c) on what portion of the trip did each travel. 
Were any normal commercial flights re-routed to accommodate the Prime Minister's itineraries, and were staff re-organised for this purpose. If so, what staff for what journeys and at what dates and times. 
What portion of each trip was by (a) charter, and (b) commercial aircraft. 
What was the seating capacity of commercial aircraft used for each trip. 
How many other paying passengers travelled on each trip and how many vacant seats were there in (a) first class and (b) economy class, on each trip. 
What was (a) the cost of each trip; (b) the total cost of all trips; and (c) what costs were incurred under part (4). 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Will special consideration be given to school leavers applying for the unemployment benefit who returned to school in 1976 only because of the depressed job market- and who have since been kept by their parents- because they believed that either a job or the dole would be available to them at the end of this school year? 
I ask the 
Minister for Social Security: Will school leavers who register for work, apply for unemployment benefit and complete the new relevent form proving to the Director-General of the Department of Social Security that they have tried without success to find work be paid the unemployment benefit retrospectively when it is established that they are not returning to full time studies? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Has she been alerted to a radio statement today by the honourable member for Fraser in the Australian Capital Territory,  Mr Fry,  advising all school leavers who are refused the unemployment benefit to appeal to the social security appeals tribunals? Will the Minister recommend to the tribunals that the payment of benefits following appeals that are upheld be made retrospective? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. In view of the only marginal fall in unemployment in February to a record level for that month of 5.7 per cent, will he agree that the Government should take action to create jobs? Will a new scheme along the lines of the Regional Employment Development scheme which created thousands of jobs be introduced? Will the Government provide subsidies to companies to employ unemployed persons along the lines of the successful schemes now operating in countries in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development? 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner  Senator Chaney  was replying to comments made by  Senator Cavanagh  but he failed to make any mention of paragraph (c) of recommendation (2) of Item 1, which states:  material proposed to be incorporated should be submitted in printed or typewritten form. 
I cannot understand why this has been included in the recommendations. As  Senator Cavanagh  mentioned, we often receive letters that we would like to have incorporated in  Hansard,  whether during the adjournment debate or during the debate on a Bill. These letters would have to be typewritten or printed, made available to the Minister in charge of the House or to the Leader of the Opposition, and then any honourable senator, Government or Opposition, could oppose the incorporation even though the Minister may have agreed to the incorporation of the letters. I should like  Senator Chaney  to explain why material- it could be letters written by citizens of any State to an honourable senator on a particular issue- could not be incorporated in its original form and not typewritten or printed. Paragraph (a) of recommendation (2) contains ample provision for a Minister to consider a document and, if he wants, to oppose its being incorporated in  Hansard.  I should like  Senator Chaney  to explain why it is necessary to include paragraph (c) of recommendation (2) of Item 1 in the recommendations. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (8. 16)- Although  Senator Donald  Cameron invited  Senator Chaney  to make some observations on this matter, before  Senator Chaney  replies I thought perhaps  Senator Cameron  would forgive me if I intruded. The story is quite simple. I put this suppositious case to you,  Mr Chairman,  in reply to  Senator Cameron.  Suppose in a few years, if I am still alive, I want to write a letter to  Senator Cameron  complaining about something or other and he wishes to have it incorporated in  Hansard.  I make the simple statement that it would baffle the best brains of the  Hansard  staff to make head or tail of my letter. I make that partly as a facetious and partly as a true statement. The facts are that a great number of letters that are written in supposedly plain handwriting are very difficult for the  Hansard  people to discern quite clearly.  Hansard  is supposed to be an accurate record of the business carried out in this chamber. The proceedings are transcribed and printed in  Hansard.  The  Hansard  staff are up against the pressure of time, which I hope I made clear to honourable senators earlier. Surely it is a simple operation for an honourable senator whose intention it is to seek leave to have a letter incorporated in  Hansard  to have a fair copy made in transcription which can be attached to the letter and then incorporated in  Hansard.  That is the first point. 
The second point, of course, is that it is not possible to transcribe a holograph, that is, an actual reproduction of the letter, in handwriting into the  Hansard.  So it is with these things in mind that the Senate Standing Committee on Standing Orders suggested that in order to help  Hansard  to provide a true and accurate record of the letter, honourable senators who seek leave to incorporate into  Hansard  a handwritten letter which is very difficult to discern should- and at the same time oblige the rest of the honourable senators who may want to examine the letter before it is incorporated- produce a typescript of the letter. We have typist pools in this Parliament where the letters could be reproduced on a typewriter. The reproduction could then simply be attached to the letter and, on leave being obtained, it could be incorporated in  Hansard.  This would aid in the speeding up of the daily production of  Hansard,  which honourable senators so much desire. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Recommendation (3) of Item 1 agreed to. 
Item 2- Reading of speeches. 
Motion (by  Senator Cotton)  proposed: 
That the item be noted. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister read a report in a Sydney newspaper alleging that 6 men believed to have been involved in the invalid pension fraud have left the country? Is it a fact that the persons concerned received an invalid pension after paying a suburban doctor $2,000 for false medical documents? If these statements are true, what action has been taken to ensure that the medical officers from the Department of Health were not knowingly involved in the conspiracy? 
The Senate is nearing the end of the debate on the Speech that was delivered here on 8 March by  Her  Majesty the Queen. It is a miracle that a debate has gone on for so many days and included so many speeches on a document that covers only 3V4 pages. Therefore, honourable senators on the Opposition side have very little enthusiasm in taking a very great interest in this particular document. I want to mention one or two references in the document, mainly because they represent more or less a repetition of the election promises made by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 27 November 1975. 1 shall read from the second page of the Speech we are debating, which states: 
My Government is committed to assisting people overcome poverty and disadvantage, and is giving priority to assisting those most in need in a manner increasing their choice, dignity and self-respect. 
That is similar in wording and in intent to what the Prime Minister said 15 or 16 months ago, when he was quoted as saying: 
We will ensure that there is a basic level of security below which no one can involuntarily fall. 
The Prime Minister was quoted as having said later: 
Particular stress will be placed on meeting the needs of the disadvantaged, including the handicapped, the isolated, migrants and Aboriginal children. 
I think we ought to examine the performance of the Government in these 14 months and see what actually has eventuated regarding poverty in Australia. I speak on this matter in this debate because it is a matter with which I am very conversant, having lived in poverty most of my life and having been a recipient of unemployment benefits in the depression years. Probably I am the last senator in this place to have been in receipt of unemployment benefits. I refer to 1965 when I was illegally sacked from the position of elected secretary of the South Australian branch of the Australian Workers Union. At that stage I was forced to receive unemployment benefits in order to keep my wife and 2 sons. 
Poverty affects a lot of people throughout Australia. Although this present Government talks about relieving poverty, it does very little about it. Last night  Senator Walters,  in her contribution to the debate, said that the Government is increasing pensions. I shall refer only to the standard rate of pension because that is the rate that usually is used when comparisons are made with the cost of living increase.  Senator Walters  said that the standard rate of pension will be increased by $3.60 a week, bringing the total amount to $47.10 a week, in May this year. All that means is that the present Government has continued on a program which was introduced by the Labor Government. If the Labor Government's policy of raising the standard rate of pension to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings had been maintained, pensioners on the standard rate of pension would have been receiving $48 a week instead of the $47.10 that they will receive in May this year. I made that calculation on the basis of the last figure issued for average weekly earnings, which was $192. Twenty-five per cent of that amount is roughly $48 a week. In this regard the Government has done very little to alleviate the plight of pensioners. 
In Australia 1 570 000 people are in receipt of social welfare payments. I think the present Government has failed dismally in not keeping pension rates in line with the cost of living increase that we have witnessed over the last 15 months. During the Budget session last year the Government made a great noise about how it would have the Social Services Act amended so that pensioners would receive automatically 2 adjustments a year in keeping with the cost of living increases. That means only that pension rates are a long way behind increases in prices. I refer to the last 2 consumer price index increases- 2.2 per cent in the September quarter and 6 per cent in the December quarter. If those increases are added to the possible increase of at least 4 per cent in the March quarter, it is apparent that although there has been an increase in the cost of living of more than 10 per cent pensioners have to wait at least 6 months to receive that increase. That is not alleviating poverty; it is extending it. It is adversely affecting those people in the community who should have automatic adjustments to their pensions. Today a petition was read in the Senate asking that this Government give consideration to an automatic adjustment of pensions so that pensioners will receive an increase in the first pay period after the quarterly cost of living increase has been announced. 
The present Government has forgotten about other areas of poverty. One of these is supporting fathers. Changes in Australia suggest that the number of children being cared for by their fathers alone is increasing. The changing roles of men and women in our society make it less unthinkable than it once was for a man to contemplate trying to bring up a family on his own. A generation ago it would have been almost out of the question for a man to try to look after his children by himself. Now, many men regard it as their duty to do so, if faced with the responsibility. This trend is likely to continue, and I think it will increase because more and more mothers are deserting their children. Generations ago it was very rare for a mother to desert young children, particularly those of school or pre-school age. Now it has become fairly common. A deserted father should have the same entitlements to social welfare payments as a deserted mother with dependent children has. Recently there has been much more discussion about fathers who have to bring up a young family on their own. I hope that the Government will consider this matter during the Budget session this year. 
The Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  who referred to this matter while the Labor Party was in government, has failed to do anything now that she is the Minister responsible for it. I hope that benefits equivalent to those being paid to supporting mothers will flow to supporting fathers. Supporting fathers also should be entitled to other concessions. They should have some assistance in the form of a taxation concession for children. They should be entitled also to receive the same benefits as supporting mothers, deserted wives or widows receive and the pensioner medical service entitlement cards which give other concessions granted by the various States. I hope that the 
Government will give consideration to that suggestion. I expect that we will see an innovation from this Government in order to make some genuine attempt to alleviate the poverty it refers to so often but does so little about. I also should like to see some provision whereby employers can make arrangements with employees who are supporting fathers so that they can work hours suitable to their requirements and so that they will be able to look after their children and not have to put them, as they now do, into a home or some State institution. We know that a supporting father has no entitlements. He is not eligible for unemployment benefits because he has to accept employment when it is offered. He certainly is not entitled to any other social security benefit, unless it is the special benefit which is fairly rare and very difficult to obtain. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was speaking about the plight and poverty of some of the sole male parents in Australia who are trying to continue to support young children and, at the same time, to remain in employment. The reports of the Henderson Inquiry into Poverty stated that 17 1/2 per cent of sole male parent families were living well below poverty level. We must appreciate that the poverty line adopted in those reports is now unrealistic. The percentage would be much greater. 
In its pre-election speeches, this Government promised a new deal for supporting fathers but nothing has been done. Government departments are not geared to assist the sole male parent who comes home and suddenly finds that he must care for his children alone. I mentioned earlier in my speech that this is not an unusual happening. Departments have to adjust in order to assist these people in the same manner that they now assist supporting mothers, widows and other recipients of social welfare payments. 
A woman who is left to care for her children has any number of avenues to turn to for assistancenot necessarily financial assistance, but emotional assistance. She can go to a community welfare department or the Department of Social Security, but for the sole male parent there is very little assistance offered. I am not saying that the women who find themselves in this situation are not entitled to have someone or some department to turn to. I am simply saying that the same facilities should be made available for men in similar circumstances. If a woman goes to a community welfare department or the Department of Social Security, she is told of the pensions to which she is entitled not only for herself but also for her dependent children. There are various concessions to which she is entitled including dental assistance and other forms of assistance to which I previously referred. 
However, the sole male parent who would like to provide his children with a home perhaps would like to provide them also with a substitute mother until he sorts out his affairs and emotions. Most of all, he wants to feel that he can still play a useful part in society. If a sole male parent employs a housekeeper-and frequently we find that he employs someone who has experience with children or has a child or children of her own- and she is in receipt of a supporting mothers' benefit or a widows' pension, her pension could be placed in jeopardy. If inspectors from the Department of Social Security make inquiries and decide, for reasons unknown, that there is a domestic relationship, the supporting mother or widow then loses her entitlement. The sooner this Government takes a realistic look at the problems encountered by sole parents and endeavours to give these people some advantage instead of trying to disadvantage them constantly, the better the country will be. 
There are a number of States which now have supporting fathers' associations formed by groups of supporting fathers not only to fight for justice but also to provide avenues of assistance to those who may find themselves in similar situations. Those associations are providing moral assistance, if nothing more. If a man comes home and finds himself in a sole parent situation, he has somewhere to turn. He can telephone such an association, talk about his problems and get advice on what he should do. That is their purpose. These associations are taking over the work and role of government departments. I do not think it is good enough that this responsibility should be left to those associations. They should not bear the whole responsibility in respect of either a deserted wife or a deserted husband. Opposite my home in Adelaide there is a Parents Without Partners centre. This does a magnificent job in providing entertainment and looking after the children of those people to whom I have referred. 
There is another area where poverty exists. The Government has still failed to recognise or to make any adjustments to the rates that are being received in this area at present. I refer to the dependant's allowance which is paid to all social welfare recipients with a dependent child or children. Whether a recipient is an age pensioner, an invalid pensioner, a supporting mother or a widow an amount of $7.50 a week is paid for each dependent child. That amount has not been adjusted since this Government took office. If we look at the last 3 or 4 increases in the consumer price index we find that in 1976 the CPI increased by 14.7 per cent. A low estimate of the consumer price index movement for the present March quarter would be an increase of at least another 4 per cent. The CPI increases last year and in the first quarter of this year show a rise of not less than 18.7 per cent in the cost of living, but no adjustment whatsoever has been made to the dependant's allowance paid to pensioners. If the dependant's allowance was indexed as the pension itself is indexed, an increase of $1.40 a week would result. This would mean that any pensioner with dependent children would receive $8.90 a child a week instead of the present amount of only $7.50 a week. The last area to which I refer is unemployment. I realise that my colleagues on this side of the chamber have also referred to this subject. As it is mentioned in  Her  Majesty's Speech, I think I also should make some comments on this matter. The Speech states: 
My Government's economic program is designed to overcome unemployment. 
That is the same catchcry we heard prior to the election in 1975. We heard it throughout 1976 and we are hearing it again in 1977. I often wonder how long this will continue before we see any real effort to reduce unemployment in Australia. Meanwhile, unemployment is increasing. At present I think there are 255 000 people in Australia receiving unemployment benefits. No change has been made to improve or to increase their allowances other than the twice yearly adjustments that we are told will be automatic from now on. However, those 2 automatic adjustments do not apply to unemployed persons under 18 years of age. These people have had no increase since the Labor Government was removed from office in November 1975. 
Where a workman has been injured and has been on weekly compensation payments for a long period and the weekly payments are stopped and action is taken for a lump sum settlement, we find that that person invariably goes on sickness benefits. We find then that the lump sum settlement received for the disability caused through the injury while he was in employment has to be repaid. He has to repay all the sickness benefits he received during the time of his incapacity. To my mind this is another hardship placed on somebody permanently injured. He could be crippled for life yet he has to repay the whole of the amount received during that period in the form of sickness benefits. 
Only this week I had a case referred to me involving an employee who was injured. He received a lump sum settlement after 3 years of argument before the court between the insurance company and counsel representing him. Now he has been asked to pay back over $8,000 that he received in the form of sickness benefits during the time of his incapacity. There is an anomaly in the Social Services Act. If that same employee forgot about sickness benefits and applied for the unemployment benefit he would not be required to repay any of the unemployment benefit received during his incapacity even if it lasted for the whole period. He also could go on to the invalid pension during his incapacity and again he would not be required to repay the pension payments he received during that incapacity. 
-Often the employee is fit enough to return to the work force but if he did so it would jeopardise his claim for a lump sum settlement. Delay in settlement is no fault of the employee. It comes about from the wrangling and jostling that takes place between lawyers representing the employers and lawyers representing the employees. Instead of a case being settled 6 months or 9 months after the weekly payments have stopped it often goes on for 12 months or 2 years. The case I referred to has gone on for 3 years. Therefore the employee has to rely on sickness benefits to justify a claim that he has a permanent incapacity and so that he will get the maximum entitlement under workers compensation. I believe that the Government should look into this area. There is an anomaly which should be remedied. I hope that some measure will be introduced to remedy anomalies during the budget session this year. 
We notice that the high rate of unemployment is increasing each year that this Government is in office. The figures in February were the highest since the Great Depression. Yet the Government keeps on calling for wage restraint so that the unions will not at least get cost of living adjustments applied to normal wages. At the same time as the Government is asking unions to reduce their applications for increases in wages and saying that they are not entitled to cost of living increases we find that company profits are increasing alarmingly. I have a few figures here that I would like to read into the  Hansard  record. Woolworths profits rose by 33.5 per cent to $23.5m in 1 976. The profits of the Coles organisation increased by 34.7 per cent to $16m during the last half of 1976. Other examples of huge increases in profits that have been taking place while the Government has been asking the unions to exercise wage restraint are as follows: The profits of the Tasmanian Hardware and Engineering organisation rose by 49 per cent, those of the Nile textiles organisation were up 78. 1 per cent, those of W. C. Penfolds Holdings rose by 20.4 per cent, those of National Consolidated rose by 41.9 per cent. Overall, during 1976 all companies and industries increased their profits by at least 5 per cent. Therefore I do not see how this Government can expect the unions to practice or accept any wage restraint while at the same time company profits are increasing higher and higher all the time. 
The only other matter to which I want to refer is the third paragraph on page 3 of Her Majesty's Speech in which she said: 
In the area of industrial relations, one of vital importance to the economic and social well-being of the Australian community, my Government will bring down legislation to protect the rights of individuals and the community, and establish an Industrial Relations Bureau. 
The unions already have seen through the veneer of this attempt to hoodwink the people of Australia. The Government is trying to put the blame for the economic mess it has got the country into on to the trade union movement. We do not know what this industrial relations bureau will do but we know enough to realise that the Government's intention is to take from its own shoulders the blame for the failure of its economic measures. It will try to place responsibility for the inefficiency of a lot of industries, through lack of supervision and so on, on to the trade union movement. This Government now realises that it has no material and no measures left. It is bankrupt of ideas to try to reduce inflation or unemployment. Inflation this year will be at the rate of at least 14 per cent or 15 per cent. In February Australia had its highest unemployment since the Great Depression and the inflation rate was running as high or nearly as high as it was in 1951 and 1952. When we of the Labor Party were in government we were often reminded that the inflation rate in Australia had never been so high. 
-It is not right. On many occasions  Senator McLaren  has quoted the figures and has had them incorporated in  Hansard.  They show that in 195 1-52 the inflation rate in Australia was over 24 per cent. The lie that the then Opposition put forward when we were in government has now been exposed. We have noticed that supporters of the present Government refer to 1951-52 and say that inflation now is still less than it was in 1951-52. So it ought to be. Nowhere in Her Majesty's Speech do we see anything about which anyone in Australia would be enthusiastic. It refers to no measures that will overcome the economic mess that this country is in today. I hope that the Government will not make rash promises about alleviating poverty but that in future it will take some action. I hope that in the areas to which I have referred some action will be taken. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  I call  Senator Chaney,  the Government Whip. 
Government senators- Hear, hear! 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister been made aware of the hardship of many aged migrants who do not qualify for a pension because of the 10-year residence requirement that is set down in the Social Services Act? Will the Minister give an assurance that this matter will be included in the discussions on the Budget proposals with the object of reducing the time period of residence necessary to qualify for an aged or invalid pension? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Were any ethnic groups consulted over the appointment of  Mr J.  Browne as Assistant Director of Migrant Services in the Department of Social Security in South Australia. If so, which. 
If the Greek community was consulted, which sector or organisation in such community was consulted. 
asked the Minister for 
Social Security, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the claims made by ethnic groups in South Australia that (a) there has been at least  6  Government funded positions in the Department of Social Security which should have been filled by bilingual people which were not, and (b) this policy reduces the effectiveness of the programs involved. 
Has the Minister taken any action over this claim. If so. what action. If not. does this means that Government funds are not being put to the best use. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security received a telegram from the Pulp and Paper Workers Federation of Australia asking whether unemployment benefit will be paid to employees at Cellulose Australia Ltd, Millicent, South Australia, who are unemployed as a result of a voluntary redundancy scheme to commence next week? Can the Minister advise whether employees at the factory will be eligible for unemployment benefit for the one week in every four that they are not employed? When will the sender of the telegram be advised of her decision? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a question that I asked last Wednesday of the Minister in relation to a voluntary redundancy scheme proposed by employees at Cellulose Australia Ltd in Millicent, South Australia. I pointed out to the Minister that  Mr Graeme  Richardson, a shop steward of the Pulp and Paper Workers Federation of Australia, made representations to the Minister seeking eligibility for unemployment benefits for the employees for the period in which they would not be employed. Can the Minister now say whether she has decided what action the Government will take in response to these representations? Has the Government rejected the application? Is it not true that in similar situations employees of the Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd at Nowra and at Burnie have been paid unemployment benefits? Has the Government changed the policy of the previous Labor Government in the circumstances? Will the Minister undertake to reconsider this policy change in view of the fact that over 20 employees at Cellulose Australia could find themselves without a job as a consequence of the Government's policy change? 
The matter that concerns me is the Commonwealth Employment Service administration of the relocation allowance. I have raised this matter with officers in South Australia, with the Assistant Director in South Australia and at the Estimates Committee hearing but I have still not received satisfaction that the statement of the scheme put out by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  in September has been followed. I refer to the case of  Mr Frank  Duthie who was living at 41 Suffolk Street, Glenelg. He is a married man with 4 children. He has been unemployed and in receipt of unemployment benefits for 6 months. He was living in one room of a flat with his mother-in-law. 
His mother-in-law received notice that she had to vacate the flat within 2 weeks. She did, and he was allowed to stay there a further 2 weeks. He had an offer of a job at Blackwood, which is about 30 miles from Adelaide. The conditions of employment included a house provided rent free. He was to be paid $70 a week for 3 days ' work a week with the possibility of full time work later on. He accepted the job but, having been unemployed for 6 months he had no money to get his furniture transferred to Blackwood. He applied at the Glenelg office of the Commonwealth Employment Service for assistance under the relocation scheme and was advised by an officer there that because the job was not full time he was not eligible for any assistance. 
Later, this matter was referred to me. I had a look at the conditions and requirements of the scheme. I rang the officer and complained that this man had been unemployed for 6 months; that he was living in one room with 4 children in a house that was rented by his mother-in-law; that he was genuinely seeking employment; that he had a job to go to but could not go unless he had about $160 to get his furniture transferred to Blackwood. The officer told me that the man did not qualify for the scheme because the job to which he was going was not a firm offer of employment. I contacted  Mr Duthie  regarding this allegation from the officer that the reason he was not given relocation assistance was that he did not have a firm offer of a job. The officer had told me that this information was relayed to the office by telephone.  Mr Duthie  informed me that he had not told the officer at Glenelg any such thing by telephone; that as a matter of fact he had called in to the office and told the officer about the firm job for 3 days a week at $70 a week. He said that what the officer was alleging was not quite correct. So we have a difference of opinion regarding the reason for his not getting relocation assistance. As a result of the mishandling of this matter by the officers in Adelaide  Mr Duthie  not only lost the job but also lost the opportunity of a house in which he and his 4 children could have lived. 
For a further 8 weeks  Mr Duthie  received unemployment benefit. He looked everywhere in the State for employment. He tried at Whyalla. He even put in a full day in Nuriootpa going around wineries and vineyards seeking employment. He had an offer of a house at Nuriootpa from the South Australian Housing Trust. He could not take the house because he could not find a job. During this time he was receiving unemployment benefit at the rate of about $107 a week. The Department of Social Security paid him $856 for those  8 weeks  whereas for about $160 it could have transported his furniture to the locality where he had employment and a house. He contacted me last week to advise that he had another job and a house to go to. Again he was rejected for his relocation assistance. 
I rang the Glenelg office and spoke to the person who had previously told me that the reason  Mr Duthie  did not get the relocation assistance was that he did not have a firm offer of a job. I asked the officer again why  Mr Duthie  did not receive the assistance when he applied the first time. The officer said that it was because it was only part time work. I reminded the officer that on the first occasion I spoke to him he had told me the reason  Mr Duthie  did not receive the assistance because he did not have a firm offer of a job. The officer went away and looked up a file. He then said: 'That is right. I did tell you that'. 
Apparently the officer told me one thing and told the applicant for the relocation assistance another thing. 
Last Friday I again rang because the man was getting desperate. He had an offer of a job at Chapman's Factory in Nairne, about 30 miles from Adelaide. He also had an offer of a house from the South Australian Housing Trust at Brukunga, a few miles away. He was told that the Department would not pay the cost of transferring his furniture to Brukunga. I rang the Assistant Director of the Department in Adelaide and asked him whether employment had to be full time to qualify for the relocation assistance. He said 'I do not know. I will find out and let you know.' I asked a similar question at the sitting of Estimates Committee F last Thursday and was given a similar answer. The Committee was dealing with expenditure of $200,000 for payment of relocation assistance this financial year. I refer to page 192 of transcript of Estimates Committee F of 28 April 1977. The First Assistant Secretary, Management and Secretariat Division of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations said: 
I can only state to the best of my knowledge the scheme relates only to full time employment or training under NEAT leading to full time employment, and similarly that the scheme relates only to people changing their permanent place of residence, and therefore excludes persons who have no permanent place of residence. I would willingly confirm that to the Committee and put the precise words down that are in our instructions, but I do not have them in front of me at the moment. 
Later on, after questioning,  Senator Durack  said: 
As I understand it, officers are being asked and are going to check on whether the scheme covers the condition that it be full time employment and that it be a change of permanent residence, and the Committee can be told that. Then it will be something that can be dealt with separately with  Senator Cameron. 
I am still waiting for the information from  Mr Wood.  I have not checked with other Committee members to see whether they have received the information. 
I was trying to advise  Mr Duthie  about his entitlement under this scheme. I refer now to a news release that was issued by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on 12 September last year. It is headed Relocation Assistance Scheme'. Part of it reads: 

 Mr Street today announced the introduction of a major new Manpower measure, the Relocation Assistance Scheme, to operate initially for 12 months. The Scheme is directed toward overcoming the employment difficulties of unemployed persons who are unable to secure continuing employment in their present locality, and are without prospects of doing so, even with retraining. 
Assistance will be made available to these persons to enable them to move to another locality to take up either employment or training under NEAT leading to employment. 
This Scheme will provide financial assistance in relation to fares, removal expenses, re-establishment allowance in a new location, and certain other costs incurred by persons changing their place of permanent residence. 
Details of assistance available are attached. 
Application requirements will be announced as soon as possible. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to have the document incorporated in  Hansard. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. Is it a fact that repatriation service pensioners are not entitled to a pensioner health benefits card and therefore do not qualify for the South Australian Government's pensioner concessions on public transport and in respect of council and water rates, land tax and motor vehicle registration? Will the Minister undertake an investigation into this matter to ascertain whether the same means test which is applicable to all social security pensions could be applied to all Service pensions so that Service pensioners can qualify for the same State government concessions? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that only half the amount of income from a war disability pension applies in assessing income for a Service pension entitlement? Does the same formula apply to a social security age pension? If the answer is no, will the Minister correct this anomaly by applying the same income test to social security age pensions as is applied to repatriation service pensions? 
I support my colleagues  Senator Grimes  and  Senator Cavanagh  because in South Australia practically every day we are confronted by pensioners and people who have applied for the unemployment benefit, the sickness benefit and sometimes the invalid pension. They have not had a reply to their applications which in some cases were lodged four or five weeks before, and sometimes they have not even had an acknowledgement. In desperation they usually contact their State member who refers them to a senator, particularly where there is not a Labor representative in their electorate. I am very disappointed in the reply given tonight by the Minister for Social Security because it is practically a repetition of a reply she gave to a question in this place on 3 May following a question from  Senator Coleman  regarding the Department of Social Security staff shortages. The Minister's answer is recorded in the Senate  Hansard  for Tuesday 3 May at page 1066. The Minister said: 
There are difficulties in South Australia and Western Australia. A meeting was called in South Australia this morning. As I understand it, the meeting was still continuing a short time ago. There have been public statements by members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and, indeed, public advertisements from the South Australian branch mentioning actions to be proposed as motions to be put before the meeting in South Australia today. 1 am unable to advise any conclusion to the difficulties in both these States. 
This is the point the Minister made on that occasion and she reiterated it again tonight: 
Discussions are proceeding with the Public Service Board and with the Federal Secretariat of the ACOA. As soon as 1 am able to advise some conclusion to these discussions I shall do so. It is extremely difficult for a Department such as mine to function when officers of the Department have decided that certain duties are not to be carried out by them. To decide selectively that some duties would not cause hardship overlooks the integration of the work of the Department. I am hopeful that as a result of the discussions and the sense of responsibility accepted by staff members, these matters can soon be resolved. 
It is 24 days since that answer was given. It was said that it was expected that the matters would be resolved and that the negotiations between the Public Service Board and the Federal Secretariat of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association would reach some satisfactory conclusion regarding the workload that was expected of staff of the Department of Social Security. I think this matter should have been resolved a long time ago. When constituents come to a federal member, he or she is usually their last hope. It is very embarrassing to me to have to advise them 'I am sorry. I cannot make any representations on your behalf because the Director or Assistant Director of Social Security is not able to hear any representations that might be made'. I do not blame officers in the Department because they have been extremely helpful, particularly in cases where there seems to be an undue delay in processing an application for any social security benefit. I would have expected, because this ban has been in progress in these States for nearly 4 weeks, that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  would have instructed officers in her Department to reach some conclusion or settlement with officers of the Australian Clerical Officers Association to agree to some increase in the staff so that they can handle the increased applications for benefits under the Social Services Act. 
I hope that, when we hear the final result tomorrow, it will be favourable. If the ban is to continue as it has in the past all that will happen is that an underprivileged section of the community will be denied its entitlements. Those entitlements are being delayed. I remind the Minister of an unfortunate couple in Adelaide referred to yesterday in the Adelaide  Advertiser.  They are living in the back of a utility. They have $5 in their possesion and they are waiting for their unemployment benefit cheques. To me this is a disaster. This is a special case. It should not have been allowed to develop to that point. The officers of the Department in Adelaide should not have allowed a situation to develop where this married couple are living in the back of a utility with only $5 in their possession. They have been living, not on fish and chips- they cannot afford that- but on pies and pasties. Fortunately their plight has been responded to by the public in South Australia and at the present time they are out of their immediate predicament. But this is of no credit to the Department of Social Security which has an obligation. In a case of extreme emergency such as this, the application should have been processed quickly. These people should not have to seek charity by having their case brought to the attention of the public and then having to rely on handouts from the public to get them out of their plight. 
I hope that the Minister has had some influence on the officers of her Department and the Public Service Board to show that there is a genuine case in South Australia and probably in Western Australia and the other States to support the claim that the workload of the staff in these States is not sufficient to process the applications that they are now expected to process. I remind the Minister that, when a staff member takes annual leave, long service leave, maternity leave or special leave, the position is not filled by anyone else to make up for that increased workload. These matters should be rectified and I hope that they will be when the announcement is made tomorrow. 
The matter I want to raise concerns a question I asked during an Estimates Committees hearing towards the end of April. One of the answers that I was given appears on page 29 of the report of the Estimates Committee F to the Senate. The question that I asked on that occasion concerned the application and payment of an allowance under the Relocation Assistance Scheme. I do not want to go fully into the issue again because it was put forward fully during an adjournment debate in this place about 3 weeks ago. Since that time I have not received any reply from the Department as to how the Scheme should apply, how it is applying and if there will be any correction to it unless, of course, there has been a reply since yesterday. During the Estimates Committee hearing I asked whether a person relocating to take up part-time employment would be eligible for assistance under the Relocation Assistance Scheme. The reply that was given was: 
The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations has been administering the Relocation Assistance Scheme on the basis that persons seeking to move to a new location to take up less than full-time employment have not been eligible. As the Government's decision is not explicit on the matter the Department is seeking a definite ruling and will inform the senator when the issue nas been clarified. 
It is nearly 4 weeks since I asked this question during the Estimates Committee hearing. It seems to me that there is a fairly clear interpretation of the application of the Relocation Assistance Scheme. To me the Scheme is explicit inasmuch as such people are entitled to payment. It does not need to be full-time employment provided it is work on a permanent basis and the worker is not an itinerant worker or seasonal worker. The case that I raised on the adjournment debate some 3 weeks ago was fully covered. The individual concerned had been unemployed for 5 months, was sharing accommodation with his brother-in-law and was living with his wife and 4 children in one room. He had a permanent job to go to. It was not a part-time job, or a seasonal job, nor was he an itinerant worker. He was told by an officer of one of the regional offices on applying for the benefits available under the Relocation Assistance Scheme that he was not entitled to it. 
The full discussion on this matter concerning the events before, after, and in the meantime appear in the  Hansard  record of that debate. It seems to me now, 4 weeks since this matter was raised before the Estimates Committee, that the 
Department still does not know whether he was entitled to a payment under the Relocation Assistance Scheme. Because the Parliament probably will go into the winter recess after next week, it is possible that we might not get the answer to this question until well into the Budget session. I would like to know how many other unemployed persons who are genuinely seeking employment and who have obtained employment do not have the finance to transport their families and belongings to the location of that employment? The Assistant Director of the Commonwealth Employment Service could not advise me at the time I raised the matter with him some 3 or 4 weeks ago. The officer who told the unemployed person that he was not entitled to the assistance told me that the reason the unemployed person was not paid was that he did not have a definite job to go to. The officer told the unemployed person one story and he told me another. When I challenged him and said that he had already told conflicting stories regarding why the unemployed person was not entitled to any relocation assistance, he accepted that he had informed the unemployed person that he would not be paid because he was not going to full time employment. 
The conditions of the relocation assistance scheme do not specify that employment has to be full time. As I mentioned in the debate, the employee had a permanent job to go to which would give him 3 or 4 days work a week. Because the job did not entail working 5 days a week he was deprived of getting the assistance that would have enabled him to start the job. As a result of that mistake as I think it was by officers of the Department the man was left on unemployment benefits for a further 8 weeks. As a family man with 4 children he was being paid $107 a week unemployment benefits. It would have cost the Department only $ 1 84.50 to transport him and his family and belongings to the place of permanent employment. I hope that I can get an answer to this matter before Parliament rises probably next Friday for the winter recess. If it is to be left in limbo other people in similar circumstances will not know their entitlements. 
I do not think it is good enough. The Government introduced the relocation scheme some time in November 1976, I think, and seven or eight months afterwards it still does not know how to apply the scheme. In this case the Government pretends to be giving assistance and trying to help unemployed people find employment in other areas, but when an application is received the Government makes up an excuse and denies the person the right to assistance. I think this should have been sorted out when the scheme was introduced late last year. We should not have to wait seven or eight months. The matter has been raised on two or three occasions and we still do not have a decision. It is for those reasons that I raise these matters today in the hope that I will get this information before Friday of next week. 
I direct a question to  Senator Carrick  as Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. My question refers to the successful direct televising of the British FA Cup soccer final. In view of the fact that the Greek and Italian communities now form a large and integral part of the Australian community, will the Minister ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to consult with the Australian Broadcasting Commission with a view to having the top soccer finals in Greece and Italy also televised direct to Australia? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 May 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that only half the amount of income from a war disability pension is applied in assessing income for a service pension entitlement. 
Does the same formula apply to a social security age pension. 
If the answer to (2) is in the negative will the Minister correct this anomaly by applying the same income lest to social security age pensions. 
I also am opposed to clause 10 of the Bill because I believe that it undermines the fundamental objectives of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, particularly those set out in section 2 (a) (b) and (c). Section 2 of the Act reads: 
The chief objects of this Act are- 
to promote goodwill in industry; 
to encourage, and provide means for, conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes; 
to provide means for preventing and settling industrial disputes not resolved by amicable agreement, including threatened, impending and probable industrial disputes, with the maximum of expedition and the minimum of legal form and technicality; 
As has been pointed out by other honourable senators on this side of the chamber, clause 10 seeks only a change of words in the Act; it simply replaces the Arbitration Inspectorate. The clause provides for a fancy change of words to give the impression that the Government is honouring an election reform that it said it would introduce if elected. The Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has already pointed out that there were 3 arms to that reform which  Mr Fraser  promised to introduce, the first one being secret postal ballots. We all know how farcical a promise that was, because 98 per cent of trade unions already conduct secret postal ballots. Therefore there was no need for the legislation to be changed. 
The Opposition regards the watering down of the Industrial Relations Bureau by the Government, because of pressure from the trade union movement, as only temporary. Government senators today have made it abundantly clear that this is only a temporary phase designed to satisfy the trade union movement for the time being. The Government knows very well that it will tighten up this legislation in the Budget session. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has made this clear and Government senators have made it clear here this afternoon, particularly when they were challenged by  Senator Wright,  who has criticised his own Government for backing down on legislation that it wanted to introduce to create a head-on confrontation with the trade union movement. Any Government that is performing as badly as the Fraser Government is performing, with problems of inflation and unemployment, will be looking for a scapegoat. Of course, the scapegoat will be the trade union movement. If the Government can put the blame onto somebody else, people will not notice the Government's faults. I think that after 18 months in office the Government has had ample time at least to show some evidence that it is getting the country out of the economic mess that it has created. 
The change that we find in this Bill is only a change in name. In his second reading speech the Minister pointed out that the Bureau will have exactly the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate. Therefore it seems obvious that the Government has some other motive for introducing the Industrial Relations Bureau. Whether the intention is to conform with similar legislation or laws operating in the United States of America, I do not know. But we do know from listening to honourable senators opposite this afternoon that the Government will re-introduce the provisions that have been deleted from the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill that we are debating tonight. I believe that in the Budget session the Government will re-introduce those other provisions under which the Industrial Relations Bureau will be able to enter trade union offices, to order the secretary of the organisation to provide the membership roll for inspection, to ask for an audit of the books, and to ask for a balance sheet to see where the money is banked and where the assets are held. It will permit all these sorts of interventions into the internal affairs of the trade union movement. 
In addition the Bureau will be able to interfere with what is now a fairly satisfactory arrangement between employer organisations and the trade union movement regarding membership of the various unions. Employers with any common sense at all, particularly the big employers, have been aware for many years that there are enough problems in running the day to day affairs of a business without the extra worry of whether one of their dissident employees, for some spurious reason, does not want to join a union. We know that this situation if farcical and that some employees would not want to pay into any organisation. I believe that that part of the previous Bill which was introduced and which has been deleted from this Bill will be re-introduced in the Budget session. I believe we will be back to the legislation that was introduced in the House of Representatives in March of this year. 
For those reasons I strongly oppose the whole of clause 10 of the present Bill. I hope that it will be defeated so that at least the Government will recognise the folly of its introduction and what it may lead to later on in the year when the Government tries to implement the whole of the legislation and carry out its threats of confrontation with the trade union movement. 
We have just received some very interesting information. The telegram is dated 27 May, which is the very same day that this legislation was being debated in the other place. 1 would assume that as the legislation was being debated in the other place at about 5 o'clock, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  was in possession of the information set out in the telegram. To me the questions that were asked during the debate in the other place were not answered satisfactorily by him. I think that had the telegram been made available it would have cleared one or two matters. 
-My question to the Minister for Social Security refers to the report in the  Canberra Times  of 5 May wherein the Minister was reported to have informed a Government joint party meeting that South Australia and Queensland were not cooperating with the Commonwealth Government in the formulation of a national compensation policy. I ask the Minister: Is this report true and did she so advise the joint party meeting? Is it not true that the last meeting of the working party of officers on the national compensation scheme was held in June 1976? Is it not also true that the Commonwealth deferred the subsequent meeting planned for September 1976 and promised to advise of a later meeting when it 'will be able to state our position more clearly'? Is it not also true that the delay involved is related to the Commonwealth Government's unwillingness to decide upon and commit funding for the scheme? 
I present the following petition from 215 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
1 ) On 16 June 1976, when the students of Soweto township in South Africa demonstrated peacefully, many hundreds were shot down. 
Since that date the people of Soweto and of South Africa in general have continued to protest at the denial of human rights and at the terrible conditions to which they are subjected by the white minority government. 
In consequence of the savage repression suffered by the African, coloured and other oppressed people in South Africa, thousands have been forced to flee across the borders into such neighbouring States as Botswana and Mozambique. 
We, your petitioners humbly pray that the Government take immediate steps to provide humanitarian aid to the refugees from South Africa, in particular by providing funds for: 
The supply of clothing, medical supplies, etc. 
Scholarships and transport costs to enable student refugees to continue their education in Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, by referring to a letter that I wrote to the Minister on 3 August regarding Federal funding for the Namoi Women's Shelter in Adelaide. In the letter I referred to correspondence from the Office of Child Care stating that approval had been given for Federal funding to enable the centre to employ a supervisor and to purchase equipment. A further letter dated 27 June from the Childhood Services Council stated that a mistake had been made and that the Minister had not approved of the funding. I ask: Will the Minister now rectify the confusion by approving the promised Federal funding to enable the Shelter to pay the salary of the qualified child care welfare worker engaged because financial support had been previously promised? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to newspaper reports to the effect that trusts are paying the Medibank levy after people have died. Is it true that under section 99 of the Income Tax Assessment Act a trust must pay the Medibank levy? Is this because the person creating the trust cannot nominate a private health scheme? Will the Minister agree that beneficiaries of a trust who are already paying the Medibank levy or are contributing to a private health fund are paying twice for health insurance? Will the Minister ask the Treasurer to remedy this irregularity? 
I raise a matter which I think is more important than the debate on whether we should continue on the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill tomorrow or Tuesday. The matter I raise has had quite an amount of publicity in the South Australian Press. It relates to a family man who was sentenced to nine months' gaol by a magistrate in South Australia because he gave wrong information in obtaining unemployment benefits. I understand that as a result of the present Government's economic mismanagement he lost his job in August 1975. 
Employers knew what they were in for and started putting off employees in advance. 
-Anyhow, the man lost his job and applied for unemployment benefits for himself and his four dependent children. He was receiving unemployment benefits from August 1975 until June 1976 when his unemployment benefits were suspended because he would not accept employment under a scheme which meant that he would be separated from his family for a quite considerable time. When he had no income he applied again for unemployment benefits and told the Department of Social Security that at that time his wife was in employment. Officers of the Department of Social Security did not find this out; he told them that his wife was in employment. As a result of this inquiries were made. On the recommendation of the Department of Social Security the Crown Solicitor's Office in Adelaide prosecuted him because, it claimed, he gave wrong information in seeking benefits. 
During this period the man had been to three highly qualified South Australian specialists and had three X-rays to try to diagnose a serious complaint that he had for the whole of this time. Had the medical officers in South Australia been as efficient in their medical profession as they are at cheating Medibank they would have diagnosed his complaint during the time he was on unemployment benefits and he would have been entitled to sickness benefits. Under the Social Services Regulations a wife's income is not taken into account when a husband who has a medical certificate applies for sickness benefit. So for the whole period that this man was on unemployment benefits, including the short period when he did not disclose his wife's income, he was entitled to sickness benefit for himself and his four dependent children. He did not receive it only because the medical profession failed to diagnose a serious complaint that he had which eventually meant that he had to have a very major operation. 
At the time he advised the Department of Social Security that his wife was working, which caused the Department to carry on with a prosecution resulting in a sentence of nine months gaol being imposed, he had already agreed to repay the Department of Social Security any overpayments on the basis of $10 a week out of his sickness benefit. That was agreed and accepted. Nevertheless the Department of Social Security, through the Crown Solicitor's Office, prosecuted this person and he was given nine months gaol. To me this was a callous approach by the Government in trying to get some publicity out of a person who could not find employment, who was seriously sick, who should not have gone to gaol and who should have been on sickness benefit and not unemployment benefit. 
However, through his solicitors, the man appealed aganist the severity of the sentence. It was a much more severe sentence than that imposed on doctors who have cheated the Government of up to $150,000 in fraudulent claims under the Medibank scheme. They get let off with a bond. An unemployed worker who cannot find employment gets a severe sentence of nine months. He appealed to a higher court in South Australia. Before the appeal was heard I wrote to both the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Crown Solicitor's Office in Adelaide and requested that they support his appeal and not press for the nine months gaol sentence to be served because of his serious state of health following a major operation. I did not get a response from the Minister for Social Security, only a telegram from the DirectorGeneral who I understand has now been transferred. 
-Or he has been sacked. If he got the sack over this incident he deserved it. A representative of the Crown Solicitor's Office in Adelaide called at my office and delivered a letter saying that it would remain neutral during the hearing of the appeal. 
-He said that it would take a neutral stand and would not press for the charges to be continued and for the man to be forced to go to gaol; that it would let the court take whatever action it considered necessary. Since then, on my advice, the man has sought under the Social Services Act to transfer from unemployment benefit to sickness benefit because there was no doubt at all that during the whole of the period that he was on unemployment benefit he was entitled to sickness benefit. In support of his application to be transferred to sickness benefit he put in a medical certificate from his own medical practitioner and a medical certificate from a very eminent doctor,  Dr Richie  Gun. I have not been advised of the result of his application, but there is provision under the Social Services Act for such a transfer. Had the Department of Social Security accepted a transfer from unemployment benefit to sickness benefit the action in the court for wrong representation would not have stood up. I have no doubt that the Department of Social Security will reject his application for a transfer because it would be very happy to see this unemployed worker who is in receipt of sickness benefit forced to go to gaol, and to sacrifice his sickness benefit so that his wife and children would have no income and would be forced to apply for community welfare payments from the State. I think it is a disastrous, callous approach by the Government in its attempt to create an illusion in the minds of the people that there are people who are wrongly in receipt of unemployment benefit. I hope that even at this late stage the Minister for Social Security herself will take action to see that this case is treated more leniently, and rule that the person concerned was entitled to sickness benefit for the period agreed to and see that prosecution for any alleged overpayment is withdrawn and no further action is taken against this person. 
Question put: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Has there been any increase in the allowable income of pensioners and low income earners who are now exempt from paying the Medibank levy? If no adjustments have been made will the Minister undertake to discuss the matter with the Minister for Health to ensure that pensioners and low income earners are not required to pay the levy because of the effect of inflation on their incomes? 
I am not satisfied with that answer. The number of children not born in Australia would be very limited. Surely the children of supporting mothers or supporting fathers who would be excluded from this benefit under the provisions in the Bill would be very minimal. To me it does not require these qualifications to exclude them from the benefit. I think the answer the Minister has given to me is insufficient. 
I also raise a question about clause 3 regarding qualification for benefit. I cannot follow the reason why a woman cannot claim a supporting mother's benefit if the child is not born in Australia. For the same reason I cannot understand why a father cannot claim the benefit if the child is not born in Australia. Perhaps there is some explanation which the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  may be able to give. I cannot agree with the qualification which is set out in the Bill. It seems to me to be unjust. I would like to be told why the children have to be born in Australia before the parent qualifies to claim the benefit. 
I would like to follow up a question that was asked by  Senator McLaren.  Apparently, under the legislation school leavers will not be eligible to receive unemployment benefit for six weeks after they have completed their secondary school examinations. I ask the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle):  Will the parents of these school leavers still be entitled to the family allowance and the student allowance during that six weeks period when the school leavers will not be entitled to receive unemployment benefit? 
