1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Did the Government pay the fares of those persons who were invited to attend the 1970 Australian Citizenship Convention held in Canberra? If the Government did pay these fares, which Government department made the bookings with the airlines? What instructions were given to the department making the bookings with respect to which airline should be used. Were the bookings for persons invited from Western Australia to attend the Convention made only with Ansett Airlines of Australia? If bookings were made only with Ansett Airlines, can the Minister give any reason for the bias shown against TransAustralia Airlines? Did the same practice apply to persons invited from other States to attend the convention? 
Convention which is held'- 
 I will put the question on the notice paper. 1 will get an answer then. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has. the Government instituted an inquiry into the sinking of the 'Sedco Helen' in the area adjacent to the Northern Territory, when nine lives were lost? If an inquiry has been instituted, who is to conduct it? Will the Minister advise the Senate of the terms of reference of the inquiry? 
-I direct a question without notice to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Australian Government agreed to meet representatives of the Canadian Government to discuss ways and means of overcoming the huge surplus of wheat in storage in the developed countries of the world? Do the governments intend to discuss means of destroying this surplus? Do many millions of people die of starvation each year in the underdeveloped countries? Will the Government give consideration to distributing the surplus to the starving nations of the world, thus saving human lives? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Development aware that an exploration well in the off-shore area of the Northern Territory has been blowing gas since 4th August 1969? Can the Minister say whether this well is still blowing gas? If it is, what measures are being taken to control the well? Can he give any indication of the amount of gas that has been lost as a result of this well not being controlled? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Minister seen a report in the Melbourne 'Sun' of 10th March 1970 which states that when referring to the proposed Commonwealth legislation on the continental shelf  Sir Henry  Bolte is alleged to have said: 'They are a lot of pirates up in Canberra'? ls there any conflict between that statement and the statement of  Sir Henry  Bolte in 1967, when the off-shore oil agreement was signed, that the Stales had had their greatest victory over the Commonwealth since federation? Was  Sir Henry  Bolte speaking on behalf of Slate Liberal Party branches in 1967? In his statement of 10th March 1970 was he speaking on behalf of those branches? ls this a case of he who laughs last laughs longest? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that the Australian Medical Association, speaking on behalf of the medical profession, has determined that doctors will not co-operate with the present Government's plans for an improved medical service? I ask whether it is also a fact that members of the medical profession cannot be compelled to co-operate in any scheme of medical service because of the words of the Constitution: 
But not so as to authorise any form of civil conscription. 
Is this restriction binding on governments only or is the Constitution binding on all Australians so as to prevent all forms of compulsory service? Is the Government being compelled by the members of the medical profession to modify its proposed medical service scheme to satisfy the demands of the profession? Is this a form of civil conscription of the Australian people by members of the medical profession designed to impose upon the people a medical service that is not approved by their elected representatives? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Government instituted an inquiry into the sinking of the 'Sedco Helen' in the adjacent area of the Northern Territory when nine lives were lost. 
If an inquiry has been instituted who is  to  conduct it. 
Will the Minister advise the Senate of the terms of reference of the inquiry. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is it a fact that the governments concerned have agreed to the construction of a natural gas pipeline to transport natural gas from Bass Strait to New South Wales? Can the Minister advise the Senate of the price per therm which New South Wales has contracted to pay for the natural gas? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Minister seen a report that South African boats have been fishing for rock lobster in the Abrolhos Islands off the coast of Western Australia? Has the Commonwealth Government given permission for these boats to fish in these waters? If so, will their number reduce the number of Australian boats that can use these waters? Will these boats be subject to the conditions that apply to Australian boats? If the Commonwealth Government has not given permission for these boats to fish in this area, what action has the Government taken to have them removed? Are any patrol boats stationed in Western Australia to protect Australian waters and Australian fishermen and to enforce Australian conditions? If there are no patrol boats in this area, is it the intention of the Government to station some there? If so, when? 
asked the Minister for 
Air, upon notice: 
Is it the intention of the Government to proceed with the purchase of the F111 aircraft; if so, will the Minister give consideration to including the aircraft in the VIP flight, in order that those who have faith in its purchase may have the opportunity of using it. 
 Senator Prowse  made some amazing statements. He started by trying to convince the Senate that there has been no dramatic increase in acreage sown to wheat in Australia. He discounted the production of bushels per acre because this is governed by seasons. He went on to say that there had been no dramatic change in the amount of wheat that Australia has been able to sell each year. I ask him: What is wrong with the wheat industry? ls it the Australian Country Party that is wrong with the wheat industry? I do not know. There is something wrong somewhere, and that is a question that has to be answered.  Senator Prowse  also said that the $1.10 advance payment represents only 90c to the grower. In fact, there is a guaranteed price of 170c for home consumption wheat and 145c for 200 million bushels exported. He went on to say that in real terms of purchasing power this 90c meant about 15c. 
If the honourable senator were to go to the depths of the depression period to pick a base year he could probably get the value of the 90c down to almost nothing. In making comparisons it is necessary to pick a base year that is an average year and not the year when the wheat industry was down at its very lowest. All I say is: What is wrong with the wheat industry in terms of what the honourable senator has said? As far as he is concerned the wheat industry is in a good position.  I  do not believe that the wheat industry is in a good position. I do not believe that any of the Australian rural industries are in a good position. The purpose of the Bill is to raise a loan for the purpose of repaying an advance to the Australian Wheat Board by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank. The Bill deals with that and with nothing more. I do not want to digress very far from the purpose of the Bill because when legislation to amend the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act is introduced we will have an opportunity to discuss the ills of the wheat industry. We will be able to roam all over the field when discussing that legislation. 
This loan was made necessary because of the provision of the Reserve Bank Act which stipulates that the advance to the Australian Wheat Board must be repaid within 12 months. It is time that the Government studied this provision. We are not dealing with an industry in the terms of 1922; we are dealing with an industry in the terms of world over-production and in the terms of 1970. To expect the Australian Wheat Board to dispose of a huge crop of wheat such as that grown in 1968-69 and to repay this loan in 12 months is not to be realistic. The Government should study the requirement for the Wheat Board to repay loans within 12 months. Having to repay loans within 12 months has a lot of consequences which I  hope to be able to  talk about later, particularly as my colleague  Senator Wilkinson  referred to the interest rate, which is a further impost upon the grower; the grower will have to repay it in some way. The advance has to be repaid by the end of this month, that is, 31st March 1970. If action is not taken with some degree of haste, next year we will be faced with the same kind of situation again. 
The Government is the protector of the rural industries. It is not for me to lay on the line at this time the policy of the Australian Labor Party. 
I think that I have always tried to be constructive. I hope to be a little destructive later on. I think I should put some constructive propositions, although I do not know how one can be constructive when faced with the prospect of having to raise money to repay an advance. One can be critical of the Government for allowing the industry to get into the state in which it is, for not amending the Act to allow a longer term for repayment and for imposing an interest charge which, I think, is exorbitant. The Government can do the things I suggest within the terms of this legislation, but I hope to be able to say something about a constructive policy during the debate on the next wheat Bill, i think that what I will put forward will meet some of the wishes - not all of the wishes - of the farmers. It has taken 20 years of Liberal-Country Party government to put the farmers in the position they are in today, and the Labor Party or any other party will not be able to pick them up and pull them out of their position in one season. 
The Labor Party gave the wheat industry security when it introduced a stabilisation scheme. The honourable senator should ask the farmers about that. 
We did a lot of things, but over the years we gave the wheal farmers security, lt has taken the Government 20 years to destroy that security. 1 agree thai the Bill has to be supported. The Government has to keep face with the industry. The Labor Party does not oppose the Bill but it does draw attention to a situation which is arising and which probably will face this Parliament year in and year out if some action is not taken and if we continue with the system of regulating this industry which has been adopted by the Liberal-Country Party coalition over the years. Last year we guaranteed a first payment of SI. 10 a bushel on a crop of 357 million bushels. In storage at that time we had about 250 million bushels. To clear stocks we would have had to sell overseas approximately 550 million bushels. In the present state of world supply it is unlikely that we will be able to do this. Again this year we accept not the Government's recommendation but the Board's. The Government has nothing to do with this; it asked the Australian Wheat Board to tell it how much wheat we should grow this year. The Board fixed the Australian quota at 318 million bushels, again with an advance payment of $1.10 a bushel. 
As my colleague  Senator Wilkinson  said, the amazing thing is that the loan may not be for $300m. The loan will be for the amount required by the Board. The Bill provides lor $300m to take care of contingencies. The Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson),  in his second reading speech, said:  lt is also proposed that the Board be required to use for repayment of the loan all net receipts, after the date of Ihe loan, from export sales of wheat of the 1968-69 peo!. 
The Government has given the wheat industry a guaranteed home consumption price. We can forget about the home consumption price because the loan will be repaid from export sales. The Government has given the industry a guaranteed export price of $1.45 a bushel, but the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has said that the maximum that growers will get is $1.10 a bushel until they pay off the loan of $300m plus interest. When and how will the farmer be paid for the wheat he produced in 1968-69? It will be 4 or 5 years before he gets any second or third payment on the 1968-69 crop. During that time interest on the loan will build up. There is also the possibility of another loan again next year to assist the Australian Wheat Board. This is the kind of policy that the Government has put to relieve some of the ills of the wheat producers. 

 Senator Prowse said that over a period of 40 years the acreage sown to wheat did not increase dramatically nor did the amount of wheat that we were able to sell each year decline dramatically. In the years 1965-66 to 1967-68 we were able to sell 71% of our production, but in the year 1968-69 we were able to sell only 43% of our production. The honourable senator is not able to refute those figures which give a picture of the state into which this industry has been allowed to fall. As has been said in another place, it was known for 5 years that this position would arise. Personally I would contest that suggestion because I. think something which I will say in a little while will disprove that it was known 5 years ago. Nevertheless, there was some welcome news in the Press this morning when it was reported that Australia was able to make wheat sales to South America, Pakistan and India. Those sales will not relieve the position very greatly, but they are welcome sales. 1 hope the Wheat Board will be able to make more sales like that so that the position of the wheat producers will be relieved. Some measures have been taken lo try to control the situation, but they are having little effect. A muddle was created over quotas last year. ] cannot help but emphasise these words. A muddle was created over quotas last year. This Government cannot, be relieved of responsibility for the quotas, lt is of no use anyone standing up in this Parliament and saying that quotas are a matter for State Parliaments. After all, this Parliament set the national quota and the first advance payments, and then it passed the buck to the States to apply the quota to the individual growers. It is no good Australian Country Party members of this Parliament going out on to the hustings and saying - as I have heard them say - that it is not the responsibility of the Federal member but of the State member and that growers should look to the State member in respect of their quotas. This is not true, because the national quota was fixed in this Parliament and nothing else could be done. I say that there would have been fewer Country Party members returned to this Parliament at the last election had the announcement about the quotas not been held back until after the election day. 
In my State of Western Australia - everyone will admit this - there was the greatest racket in the world to keep the quota announcement back and post it on the day of the election so that the farmers received (heir quotas on the Monday following the Saturday election. Then Country Party members said: 'People must believe in the Australian Country Party, because we did not lose any seats'. 
 lt is no: false, and you know it. You are in the racket with your Stale leader. 
The  Suite Government did not do anything in connivance with the Federal Government. The State Government connived with the Australian Country ia, tv candidates t:i withhold the quotas until after the election.  The  growers in  the  industry received quite a shock when they found out what their quotas were. I am quite satisfied that many Country Party members would not have received the number of votes they did had the farmers known about the quota before the casting of the vote.  I  say that quite openly. If honourable senators opposite can prove otherwise, it is. up to them to do so. 
It is admitted,  Mr Deputy President,  that over the years the farmers did sell wheat to the Australian people at less than world prices. There is still an amount owing to the farmers for this wheat, so it cannot be said that we are making a charitable handout to the farmers when we keep faith with them to guarantee their prices. I do not know what the amount would be, but it would be somewhere between S300m and $400m. That amount will be practically wiped out by this loan. The books will  be  evened out, and next year if the growers come back for a further loan on advances you will be asking the taxpayers to put in an amount over and above what they should be putting in. The debt of the taxpayers, thai is the people of Australia, to the wheat industry will be substantially paid by this loan this year. 
So it is urgent that some action be taken to try lo reverse the situation. 3s it not lime that the parties which come to this Parliament and misrepresent the primary producers tried to work out a national plan to alleviate the hardship these people are going through? I think  Senator Prowse  will appreciate the difficulty in Western Australia, not only in regard to quotas but also to drought. 
 The Country Party takes credit for the good seasons anil it puts put figures on what Australia has been able to produce and what it has been able to sell. The Country Party takes the credit for all the good seasons. I give it the credit for the bad ones - and I take it quite a little bit further, lt has been the boast of the Liberal-Country Party Government in Western Australia that it has been bringing approximately  I  million acres of land into production each year over the past 10 years. 1 wonder how many of those people on those conditional purchase blocks will walk off their land this year, and not only walk off their land but leave a lot of savings behind, as well as a lot of debts? Many of the people who have invested in this industry and have borrowed from banks and stock firms in order to be rural producers will walk off their land this vear. Very little is being done to try to protect them,  f  have the greatest sympathy for them for many reasons,  f  do not like to see people in hardship and I do not want lo see these people flowing into the industrial areas in competition with the work force which is there, not for work, because there is work about for people to do, but for the facilities for them and their families; that is, the facilities to educate them, and the facilities for their health and welfare, which are sadly lacking at the present time. If these people are forced to come in numbers into the city areas there will be a breakdown in the facilities available to them. 
 I do not want them to stop out in the bush at all. I want the Austraiian Country Party to do what it boasts of doing, that is, to protect them. The Country Party has gone out with a pseudo policy of protection for the rural industries over the past 30 or 40 years; and what has it done? It has led the rural industries by policies of expediency into the worst mire they have ever been in in their lives. That is all the Country Party does. Every time something happens rural industries are given another subsidy but, boy oh boy, the Government is coming to the end of its subsidy run. The wool industry is not going to take it from you. You are not going to put the wool industry in chains the same as you put the rest of the rural industries in chains. 
I am not one who believes that the massive development of the mineral industries is a substitute for production from the land. I believe that Australia and the Australian people owe a lot to the rural producers. If the rural producers are in trouble it will not be very long before the industrial producers are in trouble. I want to see the rural industries placed on a fair and sound footing so that the farmers will be able to make a living out of their land. I want to see full benefit derived from our rural industries, which will in turn mean that our country is developed to its full capabilities. I think a viable rural industry in Australia is still of great significance to the Australian economy, but the Government has mishandled this industry by its policies of expediency. The Government now asks the Parliament to agree to a continuation of these policies without offering some plan which will relieve the situation. 
As we have not learned to control the seasons we do not know what the world's production will be next season nor do we know what Australia's production will be. Placing a restriction on production is not the answer to the problem, although it is generally the answer which the conservatives offer every time something crops up which interferes with the economy of an industry. The whole thing takes me back to the little horror Budget which was announced on 15th November 1960 by the late  Mr Harold  Holt, who was then the Treasurer, when restrictions were applied. All the conservative Party opposite could think about in order to solve the problem was to impose restrictions. If there is a failure in world crops next year or perhaps the year after we will be able to sell the wheat we have, but should we have a policy which is based upon the misfortunes of the growers in some other countries or our own country? Surely the industry is able to work out a plan which will alleviate the problems of the industry without relying on the seasonal conditions to solve the problems. 
 Is that so? I do not think restrictive policies solve the problem nor does over-production. There must be a balance between the two. 
 If I were at liberty do do so within the confines of this Bill I would explain it to the honourable senator. Most of the problems in the industry have been brought about by weather conditions. There is no doubt that the 1965-67 drought in New South Wales, which almost crippled the pastoral industry and forced the pastoralists in that State to turn to the quick cash crop of wheat which under the wheat stabilisation scheme guaranteed them an income, is the basic cause of the overproduction in Australia today. In order to save what they had built up over the years these people came into the wheat industry and, as far as I can see, they will stay in it for a considerable time. In order to go into the wheat industry they had to meet fairly heavy capitalisation expenses and they will not leave the industry until such time as the wool industry is flourishing and their capitalisation expenses are repaid. One has to live with these facts. As one of the measures lo overcome the problem 1 would apply quotas to those farmers who overproduce. 1 have said before that farms producing 10.000 bushels or less should not have a quota applied to them. 
it would guarantee a reasonable living for the small grower and the traditional grower. 
I must admit that 10,000 bushels may not be the correct figure in each State. There would be differences from State to State as to the number of bushels which provided a reasonable living for the farmer and his family. When the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill is debated in the Senate I will produce figures to show that such a quota system could have been applied last year. The quota for those farmers who produce in excess of 10,000 bushels would have been reduced by only 20% but we would have been producing on an average only the amount of wheat we budgeted for this year, which is the national quota of 3,507 million bushels. That is one way in which to balance it out. 1 know that one farmer in Western Australia has a quota of a quarter of a million bushels while others are producing 6,000 or 7,000 bushels. However, the farmers who are almost on the bread line - those with a production of 5,000 or 6,000 bushels- have a 20% quota applied to them. If it is carried right through how will the farmer get out of the debt he is in? How can he do so if he is not allowed to produce a quantity of wheat which will give him a living? I think it is time a policy of diversification is introduced. Many other crops can be grown on the same land as wheat. 
The honourable senator knows that there are plenty of crops which can be grown on the same land as wheat. When I was in Lima in 1968 I found that our rural industries could not provide the quantity of oats required by Peru. Australia has sent oats to Peru for many years. 
Oats are the staple diet of the Peruvian people. Yet we find that in 1968 Australia could not provide them with sufficient oats. Our rural industry should grow more oats. 
I obtained the pool price for oats this year and forwarded it to friends of the honourable senator in country areas who were asking me about it. The drought conditions in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia in 1967-68 altered the whole picture in relation to the production of wheat. The farmers who switched over to wheat production at that time are the ones who should have quotas applied to them. I offer that to the honourable senator as a constructive thought, f do not know whether he is capable of understanding it. 
The Bill provides for a (300m loan. Another way in which assistance could be given to the industry is a reduction in the interest rate which applies to the loan. The Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson),  who is in charge of the passage of this legislation through the Senate, said that forward predictions cannot be made but that the interest rate should be 5%. On 31st March it might be 6% or 7%. I believe that loans of this nature which are raised to help people who are in distress should not carry any more than a servicing amount in interest. I would think that this loan could be raised - 
At about 1% or 2%.  Senator Prowse  and his colleagues in the Australian Country Party agree that the rate of interest should be at least 5% and that it should not be the lowest which can be offered today. They agree with this policy of usary which says that profits should be made out of the distress of people on the land. It is a policy of usury to apply this rate of interest to a loan that is designed only to keep people out of trouble. I cannot repeat that too often. Let members of the Country Party go out and tell the people in country areas that they agree with that sort of policy and see how many votes they get. 
 I am saying that the Joan should not carry an interest rate higher than that required to service it. 
 I am not saying that it is Labor policy. I am saying that when Ben Chifley had this problem on his plate he did not increase the interest rate; he reduced it. But this Government will not even say that the interest rate will be 5%. It is only game to say that the interest rate will be whatever the ruling rate is at the time the loan is made. It is 5% today, but it might be 6% on 31st March. If that is so, that will be the rate of interest. That is the rate of usury interest with which members of the Country Party agree. 
I am not talking about promises. Had the Menzies and Fadden promise of 1949 to put value back into the £1 been carried out the wheat industry would not be in the trouble it is in today. So do not let honourable senators opposite talk about promises if they do not want to talk about putting value back into the £1. They have had to go back to the lowest year they could possibly find - 1931, in the depths of the depression-to try to support their argument. Had value been put back into the £1 the farmers would not be in any trouble today. 
If the anti-Labor parties had not spent £2m in 1949 to oppose the prices referendum, which was designed to give Labor the opportunity to get this country on its feet, the wheat industry would not be in trouble today. This free enterprise Government has brought the industry to the stage at which it is today. Honourable senators opposite support the free enterprise policy. Members of the Country Party support that policy because in their narrow range of thinking - let me emphasise those words - they evolve a policy of survival for the industry. 
The Country Party, which purports to represent the rural industries, supports the imposition of this interest charge, whatever it may be. It supports a policy of pushing the people in the industry further into debt, with all the consequences that flow from that. If a policy of this nature is pursued thousands of farmers will have to leave their land. I have already said where they will go. They will go into the industrial areas where there will be trouble providing all the services that are required for communities. In addition, in the country areas millions of dollars of public investment will become obsolete. Not only will the farmers leave the land, but for every farmer who leaves an area 3£ families also leave the area. We can multiply the figures and see what devastation the Country Party will cause in the country areas if it continues to pursue this policy. The waste involved in the public investment that will become obsolete is another tax on the community. 
I repeat that members of the Country Party support this sort of policy, provide no remedies for the situation and go along with everything which is proposed and which will only lead the industry into greater troubles. They do not attempt at any time to provide any of the answers that are required. It is time the rural producers took stock of the people who misrepresent them in this Parliament and chose someone better who would be able to represent them. 
I rise to speak in this debate because of my concern about what is happening with respect to the Aboriginals in Australia. I do not doubt for one moment the assistance figures which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack gave to the Senate today. 1 would like to know a little more about how the money is being disbursed; perhaps in a debate at a later time I will try to expose some of that. The honourable senator in making apologies for what had not been done said that the power granted in 1967 was a concurrent power with the power of the States. He completely overlooked the provisions of section 109 of the Constitution which allows the laws of the Commonwealth to supersede the laws of a State where there is inconsistency. Therefore the Commonwealth can pass laws for the benefit of Aboriginal people irrespective of the fact that this is a concurrent power, and the Commonwealth laws will be supreme. 
The honourable senator also said that the Aboriginals wanted to retain their own reservations. I take it that he was speaking about the Aboriginals in Victoria because 1 do not think that this is the position throughout Australia. The subjects that I want to talk about in this debate are the reservations and the culture and the protection of Aboriginals on reservations. This year we celebrate 200 years of white supremacy in Australia. As I said by way of interjection to the honourable senator a little while ago, we have had in Australia 2 nations for 200 years. There has been white intrusion into a land peopled by those whom we have been pleased of late to call Aboriginals. In the past we have called them all sorts of things but today these have been refined to the term Aboriginals. 
The honourable senator may not be the only one. I do not think he can claim any privilege on that score. We may well ask what rights these people have in the land of their origin. This is important when one speaks about reservations. Those Aboriginals whom we did not kill directly were pushed out into the less hospitable parts of this country to exist as best they could. They were pushed on to reservations. The white people took the best of the land, the land that provided for the Aboriginals their food and all sorts of things. We pushed them on to reservations and we took the best of the land where the game and water were. We went further than that. We prostituted their women and introduced all manner of diseases amongst them. We degraded the dignity of the Aboriginal males. We destroyed their tribal lands, their myths and their sacred sites. We are continuing to destroy their sacred sites. We herded them on to reservations, areas of land set aside for the exclusive use of the Aboriginal people. I say 'for the exclusive use of the Aboriginal people' because under the law in Western Australia no-one is permitted to go on to an Aboriginal reserve without the permission of the Western Australian Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
It may have been for that reason. We pushed them on to these places and we forbade anyone else to go there. I will illustrate shortly the way in which we did not keep this up. We having created these reservations for them and forbidden anyone else to go on to them, I suggest that the natives were then entitled to consider at least that part of Australia as their land. Events of the past few years have exposed the fact that these areas can be invaded at will. The wealth that exists in those areas is immediately taken by the white people. I refer to the mining companies that invade Aboriginal reserves and take all the wealth of those reserves. There is no Aboriginal participation in the wealth that is on the reserves. The Aboriginals are not invited to take part in any mining venture. In Bougainville we set aside 20% of the copper shares to be purchased by the Administration of Papua and New Guinea at par, not at a premium, for the benefit of the indigenes of Papua and New Guinea. But we cannot do the same thing in respect of our own Aboriginals whom we pushed on to reservations, telling them that the reservations were theirs. In many cases not only were white people not permitted to go on to the reserves but the Aboriginals were not allowed to leave the reserves. 
One slight deviation from this has occurred in the case of the Yirrkala tribe at Gove where massive bauxite deposits have been discovered. The mining company concerned was eventually persuaded to pay the Aboriginals a royalty for the extraction of the bauxite, but what a miserable royalty it is. It is spread out over all the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory and it amounts to about $3 per annum for each Aboriginal. This is the sort of royalty that we get for these people for the immense riches that will be taken from their land, and in the process we have of course destroyed many of their sacred sites. We have heard squeals about this in the past but no-one has done anything about it. The Minister will stand in this place and describe it as vandalism, but once a site is destroyed nothing more can be done about it. Yet these mining companies are permitted to destroy the sacred sites of the Aboriginal people. 
I want to refer to the nickel ventures and in particular to the nickel areas at Wingellina on the border of Western Australia, South Australia and the Northern Territory. The Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  in another place the other day made the amazing statement that he would do everything he could within the limited constitutional power that he had to see that the interests of Aboriginals were properly preserved. What has been done to preserve the interests of Aboriginals? It is some years now since parts of the Aboriginal reserve in this area were excised for mining exploration. Nothing has been done by the Minister. Ever since  Mr Wentworth  became the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs the interests of the Aboriginals have not been protected. The hue and cry arose out of a Press report, which states: 
A Melbourne anthropologist said today that one of Australia's last mie Aboriginal tribes had asked him to get protection for its sacred sites from nickel seekers in the Western Desert area of W.A. 
I do not want to read all the report, lt continues: 
It was an Aboriginal reserve but a few years ago part containing the sacred sites was excised from the reserve by the W.A. Government to allow mineral exploration. One site had been bulldozed. 
That site can never be restored. The report continues: 
The tribe is most upset and if we are not careful it. will be the Gove Peninsula all over again, only this lime a lot bigger 
Any damage to places of worship is sacrilege and is regarded as a crime. Desecration of sacred sites in Jerusalem would cause horror round the world. 
Yet we can destroy the tribal people's sites and religion without giving the matter a second thought. 
Our National Trust gives an 'A' classification to places of few hundred years old but the places I am talking about are perhaps 30,000 years old. Yet we want to destroy them at all costs to get at the nickel. 
The area could have large nickel deposits. lt is on an Aboriginal reserve, part of which has been excised. The Government has not attempted to ensure that the Aboriginals get some equity in the wealth to be derived from the mining on the reserve, lt is time the Government gave thought to awarding compensation to the Aboriginals. They have been pui on these reserves. The reserve is the last bastion of the land that they have; it belongs to them. At present in the Northern Territory a case as to ownership of land is proceeding. The actions of the Government have brought about the excision of part of the reserve. If the land is to be exploited for the wealth that is in it, the people should be given some recompense. 
The Minister went further when he was making his statement about the Wingellina nickel site and said:  lt was difficult to delineate the areas to satisfy the requirements of the Aborigines and the mining company. 
Who comes first? Of course, under a free enterprise government, we know who will come first; it will not be the Aboriginals. I move on to what 1 suppose has been the greatest scandal on the stock exchange in the history of Australia. I refer to the Tasminex scandal. The Tasminex people entered a native reserve at Mount Venn and either made millions or robbed hundreds of people of large sums by exploiting the stock market in the interests of profit. What did the Aboriginals at Mount Venn get out of this venture? They got nothing. Yet these people were allowed to enter the reserve. Mining companies are allowed to enter any land in Australia. Thev can enter even freehold land and peg it. In Western Australia, apart from the metropolitan area, they can peg all land. Even parts of the metropolitan area have been pegged for mineral exploration. 
Yes, but when someone wanted to peg out the Australian War Memorial that person was not allowed to do so. When will the Government take some action to protect the interests of the Aboriginals? Another case which I cite relates to a request for permission to remove building stone from a place called Weebo which is near Leonora. The stone was to be removed from an Aboriginal sacred site. No-one took notice of that fact. The exploiters wanted to remove the building stone and to sell it for profit. A committee was set up to examine the request for permission to remove the stone and to see whether the site was a sacred one and whether it should be protected in the interests of the Aboriginals. The final conclusion of the Committee was: 
Accordingly, the Committee recommends the total protection of the whole of the area enclosed in the boundaries shown on the accompanying map from all mining, except the removal of small amounts of stone by traditionally oriented Aborigines for sacred purposes. 
That is an amazing statement. I think I should acquaint the Senate of the preliminary remarks leading up to that statement. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Does the Government pay the fares of these persons who are invited to attend the Citizenship Convention in Canberra; if so, what Department makes the bookings with the airlines. 
What instructions are given to the Department making the bookings with regard to the airline with which bookings are to be made. 
Were the bookings for persons invited from Western Australia to attend the 1970 Convention made only with Ansett Airlines of Australia; if so, is there any reason for the bias against TransAustralia Airlines. 
Is the same practice applied to persons invited to the Convention from other States. 
The Department of Immigration is responsible for making travel arrangements and for meeting the cost of fares of delegates invited to attend the Citizenship Convention. 
It is the practice of the Department to apportion the travel equally between the two airlines so far as this is practical. The majority of delegates are carried on special flights or in block bookings on scheduled flights. For reasons of economy therefore, each airline is allotted the traffic from specified States. Western Australian and Queensland traffic is regarded as 'long-haul' and each company is allotted the traffic from one of these two States. The traffic from other States is divided on a State basis, equally so far as possible between the two companies. For the 1970 Convention, the tentative bookings provided for 180 delegates to be carried by one company and 177 by the other. 
and (4) For the 1970 Citizenship Convention the traffic from Western Australia was allotted to Ansett Airlines of Australia. At the preceding Convention in January 1968, Western Australian traffic was allotted to Trans-Australia Airlines. The converse situation applied with respect to the other long-haul' State, Queensland, with traffic from that State being allotted to Trans-Australia Airlines for the 1970 Convention and to Ansett Airlines of Australia for the 1968 Convention. As to other 
States for the 1970 Convention, Ansett Airlines of Australia was allotted traffic from Victoria and South Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines, traffic from New South Wales, Tasmania and the Northern Territory. However, each delegate when being informed of his proposed travel arrangements was asked to state alternative arrangements if these should be desired. With only one or two exceptions all delegates accepted the travel arrangements made for them. 
I wish to speak to the amendment to the motion. In his major speech the other night  Senator Prowse  saw fit to go into the depths of the depression to get a datum on the value of money. Now he goes to the depths of the depression to use the leadership of the Australian Labor Party as an example. I remind the honourable senator that the Labor Party was in office from 1929 to 1931. lt took over from a conservative government whose rule from 1917 resulted in the formation of the Australian Country Party in 1919 - a party formed in the hope that it could take over the politics of the Australian Labor Party. I notice that the honourable senator has left the chamber. 
 1 wish people would pick a better time to call him away. The honourable senator also failed to inform the Senate of the economic conditions which applied in 1930-31 as a result of the mishandling of the economy of Australia in the previous 13 years by the Conservatives, of the same political colour as his Party. For the honourable senator to compare the Australian Labor Party not giving a lead at a time when he was in the industry with the present type of leadership of the Government in relation to the wheat industry is like 'Give-away' Charlie Court in Western Australia trying to compare the so-called boom towns of today with towns in the depths of the depression in 1930-31. I have nothing but contempt for the honourable senator's statement that the Australian Labor Party failed to give leadership in times of world economic crisis. 
Can the Minister for Air advise whether there was an agreement between the Department of Air and the Western Australian Government to provide jointly a water supply for the RAAF base at Pearce and for the town of Pearce? Is it a fact that the water supply has been provided for the Air Force base and not for the town? If this is so, can the Minister advise why the agreement was not carried out and which of the parties to the agreement failed to do so? Is there any intention on the part of the parties to the agreement to provide the town of Pearce with a water supply? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Is  it a fact that the several Governments concerned have agreed to the construction of a natural gas pipe-line to transport natural gas from Bass Strait to New South Wales. 
What price per therm has the New South Wales Government contracted to pay for the natural gas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
What is the total number of Australian soldiers killed and wounded, accidentally and otherwise, since the first Australian commitment to Vietnam; and how many of these were conscripts. 
How many of the wounded arc permanently and totally disabled, either physically or mentally. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
As an ally of the Americans in Vietnam, has the Australian Government protested to the American Government about the My Lai massacre. 
Has the Government taken any steps to dissociate Australia from this horrible war crime in order to protect our international reputation, already suffering from our involvement in Vietnam. 
Can the Government assure the Australian people that Australian troops have never been associated with other Allied troops in atrocities of (his nature. 
What instructions are given to Australian troops operating in so called 'free-fire' zones to prevent the slaughter of peaceful Vietnamese civilians . 
Idirect a question to  the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Commonwealth Bank increased to 6.75% the interest rate on loans to home buyers? Are these loans made from savings bank deposits? ls it a fact that the interest rate paid on savings bank deposits has been increased to 5% on deposits of §4,000 or more and that deposits of less than $4,000 have not been the subject of an interest rate increase? Will loans made to home buyers from deposits of less than $4,000 attract the interest rate of 6.75%? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government agreed to meet representatives of the Canadian Government to discuss ways and means of overcoming the huge surplus of wheat in storage in the developed countries of the world. 
Does the Government intend, as part of any such discussions, to discuss means of destroying this surplus. 
Do many millions of people . die from starvation in the underdeveloped countries of the world each year. 
Will the Government give consideration to distributing the surplus to the starving nations of the world thereby saving human lives. 
For a start I- want to join issue with  Senator Prowse,  who commenced by saying: 'I believe in the Senate' but then went on to say that the Opposition wants to equate the Senate with the Parliament. I do not know whether  Senator Prowse  believes in the bicameral system of government or not or whether this Senate is part of the Government, but to me it is part of the Government. 
The honourable senator would be better off having a look al peas and beans in Tasmania than talking here about government because I du not think he understands what it is all about.  Senator Prowse  went on to say that because the ban on the export of merino rams was imposed by a ministerial statement there is a right for the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  to lift that ban partially by ministerial action and I do not deny the Minister the right to do that. But I do say that whatever action the Minister takes within his portfolio he is responsible to the Parliament for it. There is such a thing in this Parliament as ministerial responsibility and if this Senate supports a motion that is contrary *to the actions of the Minister, then the Minister must pay due regard to the motion that is passed here because otherwise there is no justification for the existence of this chamber. One cannot have it both ways. Either this chamber demands the respect that is its due or it does not. It is part of the system of government or it is not. If the Government wants to bypass it in the way it has been doing over the past 18 months or 2 years it is time that this chamber did not exist. It is of no use for Government supporters to come here and support motions which instruct Ministers and are designed to ensure that Ministers carry out their responsibilities if the Ministers are allowed completely to ignore the decisions we make. 
They are not doing what the honourable senator wants them to do at all because the motion carried in this place in regard to the embargo was carried by a majority. The honourable senator has been party to a government that has been a great believer in numbers. It has railroaded things through this chamber and the Other chamber with the force of numbers for the past 20 years but the boot is getting to be on the other foot at the present ime. Within the next 12 months there will be a majority on this side of the Senate. Honourable senators opposite should not forget that. They have played on their arrogant majority for just about the last time. This year will be the last time, anyhow. I do not want to argue that with the honourable snator, but I want to say that this Government is completely arrogant. The Minister is responsible to this chamber for the action that has been taken to lift partially the ban on the export of merino rams. What the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry, had to say was very interesting. He cited figures to show that of 393 rams offered for sale, 243 were sold and only 43 were purchased by overseas buyers. He went on to say that there would be approximately 500,000 rams available for sale in Australia and that the partial lifting of the embargo to sell 300 rams overseas would have little effect on the wool industry. This is the first time that a responsible Minister has stood in his place in this chamber and indicated that next year there will be not 300 rams but 3,000 rams exported. This is the inference to be drawn from what the Minister has said, that the number of rams to be exported each year will increase. It is all very well to talk about there being only 300 rams exported today. If we let them get away with 300 rams today there will be 3,000 next year and 10,000 the year after. 
They have not bought them because they cannot get them out of the country while the ban is on. If there was no embargo there would be more rams shipped overseas. I do not think that the Minister understood this problem when he talked about the Australian Wool Industry Conference. He stated that Western Australia had 5 representatives from the Farmers Union on the AWIC. I contest that with him. I say that it has not. I know that one of his colleagues in the person of  Mr Reg  Sewell has been taken to task by the Farmers Union in Western Australia for not supporting the decisions of the Farmers Union oh the AWIC and he has told them straight out: T do not represent you on the AWIC. I represent the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation.' The Minister completely misleads this chamber when he makes statements of that nature. I want to impress on the chamber that this is only the thin edge of the wedge and that very many more rams will be exported in the near future if the Minister is allowed to get away with it on this occasion. Why does the Minister want to export rams? He said he wants to build up the quality of wool throughout the world in order that wool will be able to maintain its place in the market against synthetics. 
The Minister tonight said that it is utter hogwash because he talked about the importation of fine wool rams into Western Australia from Tasmania and said that the fine wool sheep could not be reproduced in Western Australia because of the environment. He went on to say that it followed therefore that this pattern would be reproduced in other countries and therefore exports represented no threat to the Australian wool industry. In an issue of 'Muster' dated Wednesday, 21st January, the Minister had this to say: 
But the Government says geneticists and wool experts are convinced that other nations like South Africa and Argentina will not be able to build up flocks as good as the Australian flocks with the new blood. 
So that seems to explode the theory that the Minister put forward to justify the export of merino rams - that it would build up the quality of wool so that it could compete with other textile fibres. 
I do not agree with the Minister. That is what the Minister said in one statement, but in another statement he completely contradicted his first statement. His argument does not add up. It does not hold water. 
I am entitled to any interpretation that 1 wish to apply, just as the Minister has that entitlement. But he is supporting the Minister for Primary Industry and letting down the people who sent him here, the members of the Farmers Union in Western Australia. They are the greatest supporters of the Country Party in Western Australia and they are opposed to the lifting of the embargo on the export of merino rams, just as the members of the Victorian Farmers Union and of the Graziers Council of New South Wales are opposed to it. It is of no use for any honourable senator to say that the action of the Minister is supported by wool growers throughout Australia, lt is not. 
It is supported by the AWIC, which is not representative of the industry. 
I suppose that a lot of people will thank me for a lot of things when I pass on. lt is interesting to note that another reason the Minister gives in support of the export of merino rams is that he gave a cooling off period' to allow organisations and individuals opposed to the lifting of the embargo an opportunity to convey their thinking to the AWIC. But what does  Mr Coventry  say? 
He is  Chairman  of the Committee for the Retention of the Embargo on the Export of Merino Rams. In Muster' of 4th February. 1970  Mr Coventry  is reported to have said: 
This Committeeis particularly incensed over the sudden decision to allow merino rams lo leave the country in view of an assurance given to its members by  Mr McEwen  at Dubbo last June. Urging that the embargo question should not be allowed to become an election issue,  Mr McEwen  promised that the Government would not act to remove the embargo until an adequate opportunity was given to opponents of the move to place their views before the Australian Wool Industry Conference. Although we have tried to arrange to meet the AWIC we have not yet succeeded in doing so. 
The AWIC will not consult these people because it wishes to stand on its previous attitude. Growers of merino wool who want to protect their vested interest are not given a voice to say whether the embargo should be lifted, despite what the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  has said. I remember what  Mr McEwen  said after the Gwydir by-election last year. He got such a terrible fright when the Country Party candidate was almost defeated that he said: 'We will have to reconsider our decision on the export of merino rams'. He waited until the general election was over. Then  Mr Anthony,  his  Deputy  Leader and the Minister for Primary Industry, decided that the time was ripe to lift the embargo as another 3 years would elapse before the next general election would be held. 
I believe that a vote should be taken on this issue tonight. The Government should not be permitted to display the contempt for the Senate that it has shown on this issue. Last week a meeting of the New South Wales Graziers Association was held.  Senator Bull  attended part of that meeting. A motion by  Mr M.  M. Clark, calling on the Association to seek reintroduction of the embargo on the export of merino rams, was carried by a majority of 62 to 32. 
There are more motions, but that is the important one which concerns the lifting of the embargo.  Senator Milliner  read most of the article to which I am referring. He certainly referred to what  Mr A.  P. Connell had to say about the DLP, the Communists and the unions. They make strange bedfellows for farmers, but I have seen such strange groupings before when farmers have sought something to which they have thought they were entitled. 1 have in mind the farmers and graziers of Western Australia who have had conferences with the Trades and Labour Council on the difficulties within primary industries. I appreciate that I am referring to an offshoot of the Farmers Union, the organisation to which the Minister for Air belongs. Nevertheless, it is a body that is uniting the farmers and graziers. It has over 1,000 members in Western Australia and will have many more if the primary industries keep going the way they are going now. 
I have read cut the only important motion carried at the meeting that is relevant to the matter we are debating at the moment; that is the motion supporting the continuance of the embargo on the export of merino rams. 
I have not marked it and I do not have time to go through the article and pick it up now. I do not have time to read all the article. This motion should be voted on tonight. The Minister for Air should appreciate that he is responsible not only to the other place but also to the Senate. If that is not so it might be as well to abandon the Senate and say that you do not believe in the bicameral system of Government. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Has the Court of Marine Inquiry appointed to inquire into the sinking of the 'Sedco Helen' with the loss of 9 lives completed its inquiry? If so, when can the Senate expect to receive a copy of the report? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth Savings Bank increased the interest rate on loans to home buyers to 6.75%. 
Are loans to home buyers made from savings bank deposits. 
Is il a fact that the interest rale paid on savings bank deposits has been increased to 5%, on deposits of S4.000 or more, but that deposits of less than $4,000 have not had the interest rate increased. 
Will loans made to home buyers wilh deposits of less than $4,000 attract the interest rate of 6.75%. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
ls the Minister aware that an exploration well in the off-shore area of the Northern Territory has been blowing gas since 4th August 1969. 
Can the Minister inform the Senate whether this well is still blowing gas; if so, what measures ure being taken io control the well. 
Can the Minister give any indication of the amount of gas that has been lost as a result of this well not being controlled. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Has Hematite Petroleum been granted a licence to export liquid petroleum gas (L.P.G.) worth $10Om from its off-shore petroleum licence areas in Bass Strait. 
What is the quantity of L.P.G. involved in this export licence. 
What is the price per barrel, or other unit of measurement, thai this L.P.G. is being sold for, and to which countries is it being sold. 
Is L.P.G. exempt from the embargo on the export of petroleum gas. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. If it is a fact that Esso-BHP has contracted to sell quantities of liquid petroleum gas overseas and that the price of that gas has not been revealed can the Minister say what method will be used to calculate the royalties to be paid on the gas produced? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the average amount of deposits in the Commonwealth Savings Bank is approximately $500? Is it a fact that the interest rate payable on savings bank deposits of less than $4,000 is still 3.75%? Are the interest rates on loans for homes from savings bank deposits being increased to 6.25% and 6.75%? Will savings bank deposits that do not attract the increased savings bank deposit rate  of  interest be lent at the increased loan rate  of  interest? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister tor Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Court of Marine Inquiry appointed to inquire into the sinking of the 'Sedco Helen', with the loss of 9 lives, completed its inquiry: if so, when will a copy of the report be made available to the Senate. 
 I rise to discuss a matter which I commenced to discuss at the beginning of the proceedings this morning. I raised the question of procedure this morning based on a resolution which was carried on Wednesday night by the Senate. My procedure this morning was based on the wording of a resolution. 
No  Senator shall  digress from the subjectmatter of any Question under discussion; nor anticipate the discussion of any subject which appears on the Notice Paper. 
May I support my point of order by saying that  Sir Richard  Baker gave his ruling in Rulings of the  President  of the Senate' on page 4 paragraph 15: 
The subject-matter of an order of the day cannot be discussed on the motion to adjourn the Senate, as so doing would anticipate the discussion of the order of the day. 
It is my understanding that your ruling was dissented from and the debate on it is to be an order of the day for next Tuesday. I believe the honourable senator is out of order. 
My remarks were only a preamble. This is not the substance of what I want to talk about. I want to talk about the records and the Journals of the Senate. They are the records and they must be corrected if I am to proceed on Tuesday with the motion of dissent from your ruling. I am not discussing the subject matter of what was discussed this morning. My opening remarks tonight are a preamble into what I want to discuss. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I will go straight in to what I want to talk about. I question the Journal of the Senate based on the resolution carried this morning, based on the wording that appears in the Journal. There are 2 records of the proceedings of the Senate, One is the official record, that is the Journal, and there is the record in Hansard which is not an official record. 
I support what I say about the Journal by referring to the work prepared by the  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr Odgers,  'Australian Senate Practice'. On page 134 he says: 
All proceedings are noted by the  Clerk,  and constitute the Journals of the Senate. The Journals, which arc signed bythe  Clerk,  arethe official record of the proceedings of the Senate. They include no record of the debates, the reporting of which is the function of Hansard. 
This record is very important,  Mr President. 
Further down on that page we find: 
By Section 7 of the Evidence Act 1905-64, it is providedthat: (2.) A document that purports - 
to be a copy of a motion, resolution or proposed law moved in, agreed to by or introduced in a House of the Parliament, or a particular committee of a House of the Parliament, on a date specified in the document; . . . is admissible in all Courts as evidence that a motion, resolution or proposed law in the terms set out in the document was moved-- 
The resolution which was circulated and moved by  Senator Greenwood  said: 'That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till tomorrow at 9.55 a.m. for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency'. What does the Journal say? The Journal says: 
MOTION FOR ADJOURNMENT, TO DEBATE MATTER OF URGENCY: 

 Senator Greenwood, in order to debate a matter of urgency-- 
The words of Standing Order 64 are clear. Standing Order 64.(1). provides: 
A motion without Notice, that the Senate at its rising adjourn to any day or hour other than that fixed for the next ordinary meeting of the Senate, for the purpose of debating-- 
The Journal does not use the phraseology that is contained in the Standing Orders. 
 I say the Journal is wrong. It is the official record and it should record the proceedings that take place in the Senate. Because of its importance as evidence under the Evidence Act it should be a correct report. It should be a correct record of the proceedings that take place in this Senate. Later 1 will be asking for a correction in the record of the words used. The Journal which we have before us is only a proof copy and it is open to correction. Page 81 of the 'Australian Senate Practice' says: 
Hansard is a report of the Parliamentary Debates: it is not the official record of the proceedings of Parliament-- 
NeverthelessI did go to Hansard to find out whether the resolution that had been carried by the Senate was recorded in Hansard. I found that it is not, because you,  Sir, at  the end of question time said: 
I have received from  Senator Greenwood  an intimation that he desires to move the adjournment of the Senate for the purpose of discussing a matter of urgency. 
It was not'debating a matter of urgency' but 'discussing a matter of urgency'. Then the subject matter of urgency was set out.  Senator Greenwood  then proceeded to debate the question which he had put forward. You,  Sir, called  him to order and told him that he was required to move his motion.  Senator Greenwood  said: 
I am delighted to do so,  Mr President.  I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till tomorrow at 9.55 a.m. 
That is what  Senator Greenwood  moved. If my memory serves me correctly  Senator Greenwood  read out the whole of the subject matter that he wished to discuss before the Senate. It does not appear in Hansard. My case is weak because Hansard is not the official record. But neither is the Journal an official record of the proceedings that took place yesterday in this Senate. 
If this matter proceeds I have to proceed with a motion for dissent from your ruling on Tuesday. My dissent from your ruling this morning was based on the use of the words: For the purpose of. These words do not appear in the official record of the proceedings of the Senate, nor do they appear in Hansard. I will be in great difficulty if the record of the Senate is not corrected. I therefore request that the record be corrected in accordance with the Standing Orders. I am not concerned with a practice that has taken place in this Senate over a good few years. This morning an attempt was made to get away from practice. I know that this question has not been brought forward before. No resolution has been passed about the matter which I raised this morning. I have now placed it on the record for a ruling from you,  Mr President,  and perhaps an interpretation of Standing Orders could bring this matter out into the open. 
I am particularly concerned about this because it seems to me to be quite an innocuous way for the Senate to be discussing matters of urgency.  Senator Greenwood  thought that the matter he was discussing was of such importance that he had raised it on 3 previous occasions on the  motion for the adjournment of the Senate and then brought it in here as a matter of urgency. What satisfaction could  Senator Greenwood  get? He could get no more satisfaction than to adjourn the Senate until 9.55 this morning. Is that the way that the Senate wants matters of urgency discussed? Surely if people bring matters of public interest into this place to be discussed and debated they are entitled to get a resolution for or against the matter that they present to the Senate. Under the Standing Orders at the present time this cannot bo done. I will be suggesting.  Mr President,  that there should be a standing order to provide for this kind of thing. 
I also question Standing Order 64 (2.) because it presupposes that the only motions for the adjournment of the Senate of the nature that I have been discussing will be presented from the Opposition side. It presupposes that because, in the first instance, it gives the mover of the motion 30 minutes in which to present his case and the Minister first rising also 30 minutes. This seems to me to be quite illogical. It cropped up yesterday when  Senator Willesee  was granted an extension of time because 2 speakers on the other side were to take up 1 hour of the 3 hours allowed for this debate yet the leading  speaker  for the Opposition in reply was entitled under the standing order to only 15 minutes. I might say that the method of granting  Senator Willesee  an extension of time was completely out of order. Even though the Senate gave leave for the extention of time, the correct method for granting the extension of time was to suspend standing order 64. At no time was standing order 64 suspended to allow  Senator Willesee  to continue. 
These are the kinds of weaknesses that one finds in standing order 64(1) and (2). They should be corrected. I think that this matter should be sent to the Standing Orders Committee for investigation. I request that the journal of the record of proceedings of yesterday be amended to conform with the motion which was moved by  Senator Greenwood. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for National Development lay upon the table of the Senate correspondence between the Minister for National Development and the State Mines Ministers, together with transcripts of the proceedings of meetings of the Australian Minerals Council in 1969 connected with off-shore minerals other than petroleum? 
 I rise to order.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you have asked  Senator Webster  whether he will withdraw the words to which  Senator McClelland  has referred. There has been no answer to your question. I submit that you should have an answer to that question before  Senator Webster  is permitted to proceed. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! When 1 put the question to  Senator Webster  he asked whether he might speak to the point of order. It was my view that he was entitled to speak to it. The honourable senator will recall that I asked him to confine his remarks to the point of order and not to canvass the argument. I have just drawn  Senator Webster's  attention to the fact that he is perhaps straying from the area of the point of order and I have asked him to keep his remarks to the point of order if he wishes to continue. At this point of time it is my view that  Senator Webster  is still speaking to the point of order. If he wishes to continue his remarks I ask him to keep them within the area covered by the point of order. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - As  I  recall your remarks.  Senator Webster,  you referred to  Senator Cavanagh  or any other subversive senator.  I  would like to know whether you are using the word 'subversive' in relation to any particular senator or whether you are using the word directly in relation to  Senator Cavanagh. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - I gathered from  Senator Webster's  remarks a few moments ago that he said if the word 'subversive' offended, he was prepared to withdraw it. He used the word 'withdraw'.  I  call  Senator Webster. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - You said that if the word 'subversive' offended, you would be prepared to withdraw it. I accept this withdrawal and ask you to continue your remarks. 
I make one other point. I ask that the attention of honourable senators be directed to further insidious activities in the community.I ask whether any honourable senator happened to view the 'Four Corners' programme on Saturday night? If I may place on that programme the interpretation which I and others placed on it, there was an intention by those responsible for the programme perhaps to compare the Moratorium Campaign and the activities of those who stood behind it with the activities of the Returned Services League. The comperes of the 'Four Corners' programme introduced some lad in the programme in order to instil into the minds of the viewing public the fact that he compared Anzac Day marches with all the glorification of war, although he certainly did not support that attitude. If that person holds the view that Anzac Day marches and the activities of the RSL are a glorification of war, then surely he must be the one person in the community who holds that view. I am pleased to hear that honourable senators opposite do not come in on such a comment. 
Although such action is, perhaps, considered comical when it is taken in the grounds of a university, it certainly is a most serious matter if we, as a government, allow such subversive action as the raising of the standard of an enemy power and the carrying of it down the main streets of Australia when we arc directing lads to war under the National Service Act and when we are spending so much of this country's resources$1,100m in the last Budget in an attempt to preserve the defence of this country. I ask the Government to take some action, pretty swiftly, to see that this activity is prohibited. If the Government takes any notice of my comments at all, I believe that in the future it should ensure that the community is not divided by some who suggest that their respect for the honour of Australia is so great that they have forgotten to bring an Australian flag to a march, and that instead they have brought the North Vietnamese or Vietcong flag. This was not a peace march; it was a march of war, and it will divide the Australian community. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Have 2 South African boats been fishing for rock lobster at the Abrolhos Islands off the coast of Western Australia. 
Has the Commonwealth Government given permission for these boats to fish in these waters; if so, will their number reduce the number of Australian boats that can use these waters and will these boats be subject to the conditions that apply to Australian boats. 
If the Government has not given permission for these boats to fish in this area, what action has it taken to have them removed. 
Are there any patrol boats based in Western Australia to protect Australian waters and Australian fishermen and to enforce applicable Australian fishing provisions; if not, is it the intention of the Government to station some there and, if so, when. 
 Standing order 429 provides: 
If any objection is taken to the ruling or decision of the  President,  such objection must be taken at once, and in writing, and motion made, which, if seconded, shall be proposed to the Senate, and debate thereon forthwith adjourned to the next sitting day, unless the Senate decides on motion, without debate, that the question requires immediate determination. 

 Mr President, a few days ago I challenged a ruling you gave concerning a debate on a matter of urgency. It was moved that the matter was required to be determined immediately. That motion was defeated and the motion of dissent then became the subject of an order of the day for the next day of sitting. The substance of the motion that has just been moved by  Senator Wright  is to suspend standing order 429, which I have just quoted. 
But I wish to remind you,  Mr President,  that your ruling as  President  of the Senate is under challenge. I find that the Senate, unlike any other body of which I am aware when placed in a similar position, continues with business as usual. This happened all day yesterday following a similar motion moved by  Senator Anderson  to suspend so much of the Standing Orders as would prevent a Bill being dealt with without delay. A full day's debate ensued. It is stated at page 172 of 'Australian Senate Practice' by  Mr Odgers: 
When objection is taken to the ruling of the  President  and no order is made that the question requires immediate determination, the well established practice of the Senate is for the order for the consideration of the motion for dissent from the ruling to be placed first on the notice paper for the next sitting day as an order of the day. 

 Mr Odgers then referred to precedents in the Journals. On the notice paper the ruling of the  President  objected to appeared first on the printed paper. But we have also to consider the roneoed sheet. I understand that this is issued as a convenient means of advice of the formal business that will be conducted by the Senate. On that sheet the dissent from your ruling,  Mr President,  is listed as item No. 10, not No. 1. I now draw the attention of honourable senators to standing order 66, which provides: 
The Senate shall, unless otherwise ordered, proceed each day with its ordinary business, in the following routine: 1. Presentation of petitions. 2. Giving notices, and questions without notice. 3. Questions on notice. 4. Formal motions. 5. Postponement of business. 6 Motions and orders of the day . . . 
I do not know whether we should look to the roneoed sheet or to the printed sheet, but in any event, there is no reference in standing order 66 to messages before the Chair. Neither is there reference to the bringing on of Bills for debate at the first or second reading stage prior to dealing with a motion of dissent from a ruling of the  President.  I am aware that a practice has grown up in the Senate under standing order 337, which states: 
Every Message from the House of Representatives shall be received, if the Senate is sitting, at the Bar by a  Clerk  at the Table, and, if the Senate is not sitting, by the  Clerk  of the Senate, and shall be reported by the  President  as . early as convenient, and a future time named for its consideration; or it may by leave be dealt with at once. 
The practice which has grown up has been to use this standing order for the purpose of introducing Bills prior to some other matter being dealt with. But there is a dissent motion on the business paper and if the Standing Orders are suspended, as proposed by  Senator Wright,  then the standing order that gives the motion for dissent from your ruling precedence over other than formal matters does not apply and the motion for dissent cannot be brought on. Therefore I oppose the suspension of Standing Orders on this occasion. 
I do not know whether it is necessary for me to move my motion again, but I do so. 1 move: 
That the rulingof the  President  be dissented from, to the effect that he did not propose to change established precedent regarding the interpretation of standing order 64 and that the passing on 6th May of the motion moved by  Senator Greenwood  under that standing order did not mean that the Senate at its next meeting should proceed to debate the matter of urgency. 

 Mr President, 1 had the advantage of having a look at your statement prior to your reading it. I point out to you,  Sir, that  in paragraph 3 you say: 
A somewhat similar form is used in the House of Representatives in the consideration of the Estimates, i.e., a motion is proposed - 
That the amount of the proposed vote be reduced by $1 . . . 
On several occasions the Australian Labor Party has been accused, when it has moved that the defence vote be reduced by £1 - as it used to be - of wanting to spend less money ondefence. In your paragraph 4 you state: 

 Senator Greenwood, when revising the duplicate of his speech, did not ask Hansard to reproduce the terms of the matter of urgency. 
That is a matter for  Senator Greenwood  and I submit, with all respect, that Hansard is required to reproduce all that is said in debate in this place. 
All that I say to the honourable senator is that I want to discuss this thing as calmly as possible. It is a rather serious matter when there is a motion of dissent from the President's ruling. If the honourable senator wants to join this debate I suggest that he does so after [ have spoken. The motion moved by  Senator Greenwood  on 6th May was: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till tomorrow at 9.55 a.m. for the purpose . . . 
And I repeat 'for the purpose' - of debating a matter of urgency, namely . . . 
So as not to weary honourable senators I will not proceed with the substance of the matter that  Senator Greenwood  considered of sufficient urgency to seek to use the forms of the Senate to debate it. But it is clear that the proposal was for the adjournment of the Senate for the purpose of discussing a matter of urgency. That was what the adjournment was for. Despite what the practice is and despite what the Standing Orders say, this is the motion that was accepted in this Senate and I just want to say,  Mr President,  that in your statement - which 1 do not criticise - you refer to the practice since 1908 with respect to the Journals and to the practice of Hansard since 1901. Might I, with respect, say that perhaps the practices of some 60-odd years ago do not fit the circumstances of today, and 1 accept your sincerity,  Sir, in  your statement that you will have this matter referred to the Standing Orders Committee at a later time. 1 submit that standing order 64 is capable of the interpretation that I place upon it. lt states:  (1.) A motion without Notice, that the Senate al its rising adjourn to any day or hour other than that fixed for the next ordinary meeting of the Senate, for the purpose of debating some matter of urgency. . . . The  Senator so  moving must make in writing, and hand it to the  President  before the time fixed for the meeting of the Senate, a statement of the matter of urgency. Such motion must be supported by 4 Senators rising in their places as indicating their approval thereof. . . . 1 do not think  I  need read the next sentence. 1 submit that on a reading of the standing order in that matter it is capable of being interpreted in the manner in which  I  have interpreted it. There was in a later debate on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate last Thursday evening some dispute as to what  Senator Greenwood  had in fact moved. Despite the appearance in Hansard only of the motion: 'That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till tomorrow at 9.55 a.m.',  Senator Greenwood  asked for the letter that he had written to you,  Mr President,  to be incorporated. But during his remarks he said: 
All I say is that insofar as the question has been raised as to what did occur in the Senate yesterday when this motion was moved, I have a positive recollection that, contrary to what does appear at page 1135 of Hansard, I read in full the notice of motion which I had given. 
Later he said:  1 have a very positive recollection that I did read it in full. 
I rely on the Hansard record of the motion that was moved. I do not rely on the journal record. Probably at some later stage 1 will give notice of motion for an amendment of the journal in terms of the motion that was used. Let me refer to page 199 of the book 'Australian Senate Practice' on which the following appears: 
By the very nature of an urgency motion, no issue can be determined, but opportunity is afforded to spotlight some specific matter which, in the opinion of those senators supporting the motion, is of sufficient urge'ncy to warrant the immediate consideration of the Senate. 
That is a re-statement of the practice which has grown up in the Senate. 1 submit that it is an unsatisfactory practice to perpetuate in the Senate. Honourable senators come here to discuss matters that they consider to be of sufficient urgency to warrant suspending the operations of the Senate for 3 hours but there is no possibility of their getting a decision on the matter in relation to which they consider there is urgency. I submit that that should not be so. I submit that there should be provision within the Standing Orders for senators to be able to get decisions on the substance of matters that they want to discuss. 1 will not weary the Senate any further. I state to you plainly,  Mr President,  that the standing order is capable of the interpretation - I am not saying that it is not capable of some other interpretation - that I place upon it. The motion that  Senator Greenwood  moved is in line with the interpretation that I place upon the standing order and, in the face of that interpretation of the standing order and the motion moved by  Senator Greenwood,  I submit that your ruling,  Sir, is  contrary to the standing order and the motion. 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is the Minister aware that the Liberal Party Rural Industries Committee is recommending to the Government the establishment by statute of a rural industries board to advise the Government on rural matters? ls this an indication that the Liberal Party is endeavouring to capitalise on the disaffection that exists between members of the Australian Country Party and rural producers? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Will the Minister have laid upon the Table of the Senate correspondence between the Minister for National Development and Slate Mines Ministers regarding offshore minerals, other than petroleum, together with the transcript of proceedings of meetings of the Australian Minerals Council in 1969. 
 I have perused the business paper of the other place. I have found that 17 Bills were introduced there during March. We have not yet received those Bills. Some of them are controversial, some are not. Because of the brawls that are going on within the Government Parties over controversial Bills relating to the proposed Industry Development Corporation, territorial waters and the national health scheme, the business is not flowing through to us. I cannot accept that as a valid reason for suspending the opportunities that honourable senators have to place General Business on the notice paper and to have it debated. I appreciate that there are other ways and means of dealing with business, but General Business covers matters with which the Parties are particularly concerned. They hope to obtain resolutions of the Senate on those matters and I do not think it is right that at this time we should suspend debates on General Business. 
We have been sitting in this session for 8 weeks and we have not dealt with any really affective business (o date. If the Government Parties are unable to resolve their differences as to what the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  wants to do and the Parties want to do on some of these controversial Bills, that is no reason why the privileges of the Senate should be ceded in favour of Government Business. I remind the Senate that this is something that happens every year. We get into this bottleneck because Bills, are held over in the other place. They have no consideration for the times at which we might be required to sis. What might be called the pot boiler Bills which come into the Other p/ace are held up there instead of being sen: on to us in this place. 1 do not know how long we will have to sit in June. We have only 1 week more to sit in May and we have yet to deal with the whole of the programme which is at present on the notice paper in the House of Representatives, in addition to which there are very important ministerial statements which have been made and which we of the Opposition will want to debate fairly extensively. I should say that these things will have to be dealt with before the Senate rises. 
It is of little use people saying that because a debate is based on a ministerial statement it can stand over until the Budget session. We find quite frequently in this place that we are debating ministerial statements that are completely out of context in time. If a Minister makes a statement it should be debated within a few days of it being made. I have seen ministerial statements on the notice paper for as long as 2 years, standing over and waiting until there is no other business to be dealt with in this place, at which time they are brought on. Circumstances might have changed completely in that time. When ministerial statements are made and the Opposition indicates that it wants to debate them they should be brought on fairly quickly. Despite all the business in front of us we have 1 week only in May and whatever time we sit in June to be able to complete the business. It is not a fair thing to ask us to give up our general business day because of the laxity of the Government in bringing forward business. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Anderson)  adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Commonwealth Savings Bank adopted a policy of lending amounts in excess of $8,000 for home building and purchase at the interest rate of 8%? Is there any limit on the amount that the Bank is willing to lend under this policy? Is lending under this policy restricted to home building or home purchase? 
I want to follow on from what  Senator Turnbull  has said. With all due respect to what  Senator Anderson  has said, I think that perhaps what is said at this time might have some bearing upon what the Government will do when it is bringing down the papers for the Budget session. I am very conscious of what happens with -flights to and from Western Australia, lt is common knowledge that the aircraft used on the service from Western Australia operate at times that are convenient to the airlines and fit in with the curfew which is imposed on aircraft in eastern Australia. The people of Western Australia have to put up with that. I propose to put a specific case to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton). 
On 31st October 1969 I was booked to travel from Melbourne to Perth on direct flight 516, the scheduled departure time from Melbourne being 7.45 p.m. At 8 p.m. there had been no announcement about whether the flight would be going and all the passengers were sitting about the airport waiting for an announcement of some sort. Finally I went over to the information counter to find out what had happened to the flight. I was told that no aircraft was available to operate the flight to Perth at that time. A direct flight from Melbourne to Perth can be done with one aircraft only, that is, the 727. I was out in front of the airport terminal at 7.55 p.m. and two 727s were on the tarmac at that time. Yet 1 was told that no aircraft was available for this flight. Bearing in mind that the scheduled flight time from Melbourne was 7.45 p.m., I inform the Committee that the actual departure time of the aircraft was 11.38 p.m. Also on that day Trans-Australia Airlines flight 514, according to the flight schedule, was due to leave Melbourne at 8.30 p.m. That aircraft started to load at 10 p.m. and left at about 10.30 p.m. Yet the travelling public, the people who keep these aircraft in the air. are not told one word about what is going on. lt is not true to say that aircraft of the airlines follow each other through the air, that they leave at the same time and land at the same time, because on this night Ansett Airlines of Australia had flight 222 Hying direct from Melbourne to Perth and scheduled to leave Melbourne at 7.45 p.m. That aircraft left at 7.45 p.m. Also it had flight 210 scheduled to leave for Perth via Adelaide at 8.30 p.m. and the aircraft left at 8.30 p.m. Although I think I know the answer to this, 1 submit to the Minister that the explanation is that Trans-Australia Airlines has not sufficient aircraft to be able to fulfil its programme, and associated with this is the curfew which applies in eastern Australia but which affects Western Australia. Also I submit to the Minister that the 2-airline agreement hampers TAA in being able to have sufficient aircraft. Under the 2-airline agreement each airline must fly the same types of aircraft and have the same number of aircraft. So if Ansett is unable to provide the number of aircraft that are required, TAA cannot acquire that number. 
In this way TAA is prohibited from having sufficient aircraft to be able to carry out its scheduled flights. TAA is limited in its intrastate traffic by the Constitution, but Ansett Transport Industries is not limited in that way. Therefore for short flights on fill-in operations the Ansett organisation has various aircraft to call upon. TAA does not have such aircraft because it is not equipped for intrastate flights. I suggest to the Minister that that position should be examined. If the people's airline is to fulfil the function for which it was designed it needs sufficient aircraft and should not be hampered by the 2-airline agreement. At this stage I am not opposing the 2-airline agreement. All 1 am saying is that if TAA is to fulfil the role it was allotted the Government must ensure that it has the necessary tools to do mat job. 
 Senator Webster  commenced his remarks bv congratulating the Government on implementing a major recommendation of the Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance - 'the Nimmo Committee. 
The honourable senator used the words 'major recommendation'. We all have our own ideas of what the major recommendation is. To my mind, the major recommendation of the Nimmo Committee concerned the list of common fees. The medical profession were to be bound to inform their patients of the list of common fees and of the fee that they proposed to charge for the treatment. That is not to be found anywhere in the Bill. Those who charged in excess of the common fee would not be within the scheme. To me, this is the major recommendation of the Nimmo Committee. It is the very foundation of what I want to talk about tonight because the doctors have stated already that they will not adhere to the common fee formula. The cost of medical treatment to the patient will be much greater than $5. Advocates in favour of this legislation have been saying constantly that the patient will not be required to pay more than $5  whether he  goes to a specialist or to a genera] practitioner. It is quite wrong for people to stand in this place as legislators and endeavour to mislead the public in this way. The $5 that the patients will be required to pay under this scheme will apply only if the medical profession operates on the list of common fees. Everyone here knows full well that many medical practitioners charge in excess of the list of common fees. 
The only power that the patient has to find out the common fee that is to be charged is the 4.5 million pamphlets that the Government will publish, using public funds and distribute throughout Australia in an effort to bolster its own scheme which has no foundation. The 4.5 million pamphlets which will be published with public money and which will have the postage on them paid by public money will go into every household so that the occupant can ascertain what the common fees are. The Government's policy was stated quite clearly by  Sir William  Refshauge when he said that the Government would encourage but certainly not compel adherence to the list of common fees. That is the basic weakness in the scheme that the Government presents to Parliament for approval. That is only the start of the mess that this legislation proposes because the list of common fees is not only a list of common fees for medical practitioners, be they GPs or specialists, but also a list showing the common fees applicable in the 6 States. In some States the list of common fees is higher than it is in other Stales. This means that the charges of the medical practitioners in the States in which a lesser fee is charged than that charged in other States will attract a lesser benefit. This has its disadvantages, lt may be said that in some States the lower fees were justified because of the difference in the cost of living and in the cost of maintaining a practice and a family. 
At this stage I speak only of my home State where over the years the common fees have been somewhat lower than the common fees in the eastern States. This was based mainly upon the lower cost of living in Western Australia, but the days of the lower cost of living in Western Australia have gone. The cost of living figures for that State are about the highest of any of the States. Under this legislation the medical practitioners practising in that State will be bound to a list of common' fees which are below the common fees in the eastern States. Can the Government justify a national health scheme which provides different benefits  -  I emphasise the words national health scheme' - according to (he residence of the Australian citizen? I say that the Government cannot justify such a scheme. At any lime the labourer is worthy of his hire. The ultimate result of having different sets of common fees in the different Stales must eventually be to erode all the medical services in the States with the lower common fees. It will inevitably mean that medical practitioners in the States where the lower fees are charged will endeavour to lift their fees. The difference between what a person pays and what he receives in benefits will increase beyond the $5 now provided A person will pay very much more for the medical service he receives. 
If the fees are higher in one Slate than they are in another State, is it not obvious that the medical practitioners will tend to migrate to the State where the highest fees are paid? In this case that means New South Wales: All members of the medical profession will want 10 practise in New South Wales because they will be receiving a higher payment for the services they render. Not all of them will be successful. Only the best of them will be able to work up a sufficient practice to be able to carry on. We all know that in all professions and in all walks of life some people excel at their work and others do not. Those members of the medical profession who are unable 10 establish themselves in the States where the higher fees are paid will go back to the States where the lower fees are paid. What does this mean? With respect to the medical profession, I say it means that a second rate service will be provided in the Stales where lower fees are paid. It is inevitable that this will result from a scheme of this nature. 1 ask the Government whether it has made any preparation for adjustment of the fees. One of the problems which faced the medical profession in the original concept was that there was no provision for an adjustment periodically in the list of common fees in accordance with increases or decreases in the cost of living. I ask the Government whether there is any consideration given in the legislation to adjusting the common fees as between the States. In order that this second rate service - as I call it - will not be allowed to develop and operate in the States where lesser fees are paid some escalating clause should be inserted in the legislation to allow States which are presently able to operate on a lesser fee to bring their fees, as their costs increase, up to the fees which are charged in other States. I must repeat that doctors will tend to migrate to the places where they can obtain the greatest remuneration for their services. I am unable to contemplate a national scheme which provides benefits that differ on a geographical basis as to Australian citizens. When schemes of this nature are introduced the Australian people are divided. The Government, by the introduction of this scheme, has divided the medical profession. Today no-one has any faith in the Australian Medical Association except the specialists. Under this legislation the specialists just sit pretty and collect the fees as they come along. But the general practitioners will be endeavouring to hold their patients rather than send them to specialists for treatment. The patients will want to go to specialists for treatment 
I ask the Government: What is in the best interests of the patient? What is in the best interests of the medical profession? If the patient wants to go to a specialist and the general practitioner quite rightly considers (hat he has sufficient skill to treat the patient adequately and wants to retain that patient, is that patient going to be satisfied? What has happened to the great myth of 1949 of patient-doctor relationships which we heard from the present Parties when they opposed the Australian Labor Party's health scheme? What does this Bill do to doctor-patient relationships? It almost destroys any confidence which the patient has in the doctor. Then as the expertise of the medical profession in the States where the highest fees are paid is built up the patients from the lesser paid States - those in the States which have a second class service - will want to go to the other States to obtain expert attention. In this way the cost of health to the patient will be increased. The Bill does nothing to try to avert this development. The maintenance of good health becomes more expensive every day. It has been proved throughout the world that medical costs are highly inflationary. The Government is not making any attempt in this legislation to hold costs down. Costs will increase and as they increase over and. above the list of common fees the patient will bear more of the costs. 
Government advocates are being completely dishonest when they stand in their places in the Senate and say that the patient will pay no more than $5 whether it be to a general practitioner or to a specialist. That position will operate only if the specialists adhere to the list of common fees and it cannot operate in any other way. But, of course, this scheme was conceived in panic when it was put to the Australian people during the election campaign. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  Had no idea of what it was going to cost gr how it was going to work out and this is borne out by the escalation of the costs of the scheme. In various ways it has risen now by S65m and this is part of another burden that the people will have to pay for their health. They will pay greater contributions to the proliferation of funds. It just seems to me that the whole scheme does not work out. 
The Bill throws up so many anomalies that neither the patients nor the doctors will understand where they are. I think this is inherent in the amendment moved by  Senator McManus  on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party seeking more time to come to an agreement with the members qf the medical profession. I do not agree, of course, with giving them more time. They have had since last September, when the Prime Minister made his announcement, o work out some compromise on this and the inability of the doctor of philosophy to work out an agreement with the doctors of medicine has led to the shambles that the medical profession is in today. The confusion within the medical profession is revealed in the amount of correspondence that we have all received from the Australian Medical Association and the general practitioners. If honourable senators sit down and study that they will find just how confused the whole of the medical profession is. It clearly points up the divisions in the ranks of the profession but, of course, this is the old conservative approach - to divide and conquer - and in this instance the Government has set put to divide and conquer the medical profession. If it has done nothing else it has done that. I say that this can only reflect upon the patients. 
The specialist does not have to worry very much because the patients will be anxious to get to the specialist and they will be demanding that the general practitioner refer them to the specialist. It is not sufficient to say, as  Senator Webster  said, that they can only go to the specialist if they are referred by the family doctor. This is the position with the legislation of today. The Commonwealth pays 2 fees. One goes to one's general practitioner and he refers one to a specialist. I do not know any general practitioner who has refused to refer a patient on the patient's request. Of course that will happen under this legislation, too. The patient will make a request for specialist treatment and the general practitioner will have no option but to refer that patient to the specialist. Of course, the specialists will be centred in our cities and larger towns. These are the only places where specialists can operate, where the facilities are available for them to carry out their specialist treatment and it means an exodus to the cities and the larger towns from the smaller country towns. 
The result of this, of course, will be that there will have to be some subsidisation of general practitioners to enable them to continue to practise in the smaller country towns. It will not be the Commonwealth which will be paying the subsidy to the general practitioner in the country town. This will become another burden on State finances. The problem of CommonwealthState financial relations has not yet been resolved but I believe that this legislation will increase the financial burdens of the States. I know that it has happened over the years in my own State. The State Government has had to pay subsidies to medical practitioners to operate in the small gold mining towns and in the north west part of the State the State Government has paid the air fares to the cities of patients requiring specialist treatment. There will be much more of this as this legislation starts to work through and it will be a greater burden on the States. With no guarantee from the medical profession that the list of common fees will be adhered to, has the Government given any consideration to the burden that it is building up for the public to bear for health? Surely the medical practitioners are not going to be the only ones in the community who will not require or take - whichever way one likes to put it - an increase in their remuneration, and there is no provision in this Bill for an escalation of the benefits that are provided by it to catch up with the increase in medical charges. 
I will be surprised if the medical practitioners leave their fees as they are today for any lengthy period. Like everyone else in this community under this inflationary spiral that this Government loves so well they will be wanting an increase in their fees. It will be the public who will pay, and not the Government. The Government, of course, made one other promise during the election campaign last year. It also agreed to ease the burden of income tax upon the low and middle income group. Those who are able to pay for medical services at present will not be in greater difficulties under this Bill than they have been in the past, but those in the low and middle income groups will be in greater difficulty. If ever the Government gets round to implementing its policy of reducing taxation on those in the low and middle income groups it will give with one hand and take away with the other. That is exactly what this legislation proposes to do. 
I can do little more at this stage than to commend the amendment moved by  Senator McClelland.  It is designed to ease the burden on those in our community who are most in need of help. It is designed to make those who can afford it pay and to contribute a little for those who cannot afford to pay. I commend this proposal to the Government and ask that honourable senators agree to it. Many honourable senators will say that they cannot agree to this because it is Socialist legislation, but as 1 have watched the political scene in Australia over the last few years I have noticed that it has not been the Australian Labor Party that has been turning more to the right but the Liberal Party of Australia which has been turning more to the left. This is inherent in the squabbles that have been going on in the Liberal Party at the moment over the Industrial Development Corporation, off-shore oil and this type of legislation.  Senator Greenwood  laughs.. I know that a few years ago the Menzies Government implemented compulsory loans. When we tried to nationalise the banks the people were told that we were going to seize their savings, but the Menzies Government seized the people's savings out of their insurance accounts and out of their superannuation funds. Not a word was said about that. So let us not talk about where the Conservative Parties  aTe  going. They know that for their very survival they have fo adopt Socialist measures. 
I say to the Senate that within a very few years the Government will have to adopt this policy of compulsory contributions and it will have to adopt a policy of compulsory common fees. This is the only way in which a national health scheme can be made to work. The writing is on the wall. When we examine schemes in other parts of the world - I do not stand up for any particular scheme - we see that the so-called free enterprise schemes that operate in other nations are falling down and that the people are crying out for something better. This Government has an opportunity at this stage to provide something better at little cost to itself. The cost will be very great if it allows the opportunity to slip away. It should be implementing the scheme now. 
Why does the Government try to shore up this scheme which is without foundations? It knows that it is without foundations. The Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry on Health Insurance, known as the Nimmo Committee, told us that it was without foundation, and the Senate Select Com'mittee on Medical and Hospital Costs told us that it was without foundation, yet the Government, in pursuit of its so called free-enterprise policy - it is free only sometimes, not always - will persist in wasting millions and millions of dollars of the taxpayers' funds in shoring up a scheme of  thin  nature. I commend to the Senate the amendment moved by  Senator McClelland.  It is the only sensible way out. I would have wished that the amendment went a good deal further and covered many more of the things that should be covered. However, the amendment will relieve the burden of payment by the people and 1 commend it to the Senate. 
In speaking to clause J I wish to raise a protest about the way in which the legislation has been brought before the Committee, lt is most difficult to understand a Bill of this size when it is brought in. Admittedly much of the document that we have before us is made up of schedules, but the Bill does contain 55 clauses which extend over 35 pages. We are supposed to be able to read these amendments into a roneoed consolidation of the National Health Act up to 1965 with 4 sets of amendments which have not been consolidated. These are 2 pages of Act No. 14 of 1967, 29 pages of Act No. 100 of 1967, 15 pages of Act No. 102 of 1969 and 33 pages of Act No. 44 of 1966. To complicate things a little further, we have a consolidation of the legislation which includes the amendments to the Act which are proposed by this Bill but which has no regard for the amendments that have been accepted in the other place. This is not the way that legislation should be presented and I think it is time that the Government studied this matter. 1 appreciate the difficulties involved in getting parliamentary draftsmen so that legislation can be consolidated, but 1 point out that in this instance, with an important Bill of this nature, the last consolidation was in 1965. 1 do not think it is good enough for the Government to present legislation in this way to the Senate and expect to get an intelligent debate upon it. 
am sure ail honourable senators are interested in the national health scheme. I have discovered that iti the documents wc have- received there are references not only to the National Health Act but also to the Social Services Act. lt is necessary to chase up the Social Services Act in order to understand the references. 1 urge the Government to ensure that in future when introducing major legislation of this nature consolidations are effected so that the people who have to deal with the legislation will be able to do so intelligently. 
I support the amendment. I believe that its operative words are 'in a form that is designed to influence public opinion'. We have no objection at all to the Government distributing information that is designed to assist the people to know what the Government is doing. But we do object to public funds being expended on political propaganda, with all the machinery of government available to the Government to enable it to enter homes and disseminate this propaganda, whereas no opportunity is given to any other political party to do that.  Senator Gair  is very experienced in this field, having been the Premier of a State. He said that a government had a responsibility to give an account of its stewardship. With that I agree. But 1 do not agree that any government is entitled to expend public moneys on disseminating information in a form that is designed to influence public opinion. 
I ask the Minister: ls the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  prepared to distribute to each elector in Australia, at government expense, a copy of the Nimmo Committee report. I am not asking whether he can do that. I am asking whether he is prepared to do it. 
Because it is a condemnation of the scheme that (he Government is now intending to prop up by this legislation. The report and recommendations of the Nimmo Committee reveal that. If 4J million copies of that report were published and distributed as, according to the Minister for Health, the Government intends to distribute to the public information on the common fees and the operations of the National Health Act, 1 believe that the public would be equally informed as to the benefits or lack of benefits of a contributory scheme. I suggest that members of the public should be given the opportunity to read and analyse the Nimmo Committee report. 
I am not making a similar request in respect of the report of the Senate Select 
Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs. That is an interim report and it contains 2 points of view. A dissenting point of view was expressed by the 2 Labor senators on that Committee. But I am asking whether the Government is prepared to distribute to each householder in Australia a copy of the report of an independent committee set up by the Government to analyse its contributory health benefits scheme. In my opinion, that would be designed to influence public opinion just as much as the distribution of the 4£ million copies of the booklet which the Minister says is in type but not yet printed is designed to influence public opinion. In my opinion, that is what it is for. 
Government moneys are spent in all sorts of directions. I have here a booklet issued by the Department of Primary Industry and printed for the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia by W. G. Murray, Government Printer, Canberra. Its purpose is to advise primary producers on their taxation concessions. 
I would not say that it is improper. I say that if the Government is prepared to do this for one section of the community it should do it for all sections of the community. 
It is advising them on their taxation rights and disabilities. If the Government can do this for one section of the community it can do it for other sections of the community. I am not objecting to this being done for the primary producers. But all sections of the community pay taxation and all sections of the community  are  entitled to have the expert advice of the Taxation Branch, which this booklet contains in respect of primary producers. Why should not the wage workers and the professional men have the benefit of the expert advice of the Taxation Branch? If the Government wants to distribute to the public, in the form of information, literature that is related to health and limited to the prevention of disease, I have no quarrel at all with that. I believe that the people should be fully informed on matters of health and the prevention of disease. But, if literature that is designed to influence public opinion is to be distributed at public expense, I believe that it is quite wrong for public funds to be used for that purpose. 
I take it that the fees referred to for adjustment are those in the scale of basic Commonwealth benefits in the First Schedule, the fund medical benefit in the Third Schedule and the specified excesses in the Third Schedule. Those are the components which go to make up the list of common fees, lt is important to have some provision in the legislation for an adjustment of the fees. I am not particularly wedded to a period of 2 years but my Party has agreed on an amendment providing for a period of 2 years and it thinks that that is reasonable. Therefore I support the amendment. 
Last night I spoke extensively on the concept of common fees, more particularly the differential geographical common fees, lt will be necessary as time goes on for the differentials between the various States to have the common fee adjusted lt may not be 2 years before this requires adjustment. Adjustment may be required in a lesser period or adjustment may not be required for a greater period, lt is not sufficient to accept what the Minister has said, namely, that there will be some periodic adjustment of the common fees in consultation, I take it, with the medical profession. I must ask the Minister which branch of the medical profession will be involved, ls it the organisation which represents the general practitioners or is it the Australian Medical Association? 
lt seems to me that the AMA does not represent the medical profession in Australia at present. It is something like the Australian Wool Industry Council, which is supposed to represent the wool growers. The Government will finish up consulting a body which does not represent the medical profession. 
Well, if one can believe the news media and the correspondence which one receives from the AMA and the general practitioners, it would appear that there is a considerable area of difference between the two of them. This afternoon  Senator McManus  said that, after consultation with one branch of the medical profession, he agreed with it having its case put to him by the AMA, but when he received submissions from the AMA that particular branch of the profession was not even mentioned. Therefore, it could not be said that the AMA was at that stage representing the views of that branch of the profession. 1 think something more will have to be said here as to whom the Government will negotiate with. 1 would like to know why this branch of the Australian work force is placed in the privileged position of being able to negotiate with the Government on a matter such as the income of its members but other branches of the Australian work force have to submit to an independent tribunal their cases for an improvement of their working conditions and wage levels. Until now, and 1 suppose it will be so in the future, the medical profession has engaged accountants to study the costs of operating the practices of its members, the increase in the cost of living and other matters which the medical profession believes to be charges upon the conduct of the practices of its members. As a result, the medical profession has arbitrarily increased the fees which it charges lo the public. We know from experience that the charges imposed by the medical profession have got completely out of hand. I am not saying for one moment that the members of the medical profession who provide professional services are overcharging or anything of that nature. All I am saying is that they have been able to increase the fees charged for their services at a quicker rate than the Government has been prepared to amend the National Health Act to ensure that a reasonable scale of charges is imposed upon the patients of these professional people. 
What will happen if the matter of common fees is left to negotiations between the Government and whoever are the representatives of the medical profession? I do not accept that the AMA represents the medical profession. But what will happen if we leave it to these 2 parties to negotiate? We have had practically 9 months of disagreement between the Government and the medical profession prior to the introduction of this legislation. Are we to have months or even years of disagreement between the Government and the medical profession as to how the fees should be adjusted? And no doubt in the meantime the charges imposed on parties requiring medical services would be continually increasing. 
After all, when one wants the services of a doctor one cannot just wait around until some adjustment has been made in his charges. Generally, if one wants the services of a medical practitioner one wants to go and see him straight away and not wait until such time as the haggling which is going on in regard to the benefits provided is concluded. If the common fees are adjusted 1 take it that the Commonwealth's contribution towards the patient's expenses will also be adjusted and the contribution by the registered fund will also be adjusted. There is in effect a 3-part programme here and negotiation is required on each adjustment. When this has been concluded the matter has to come back to the Parliament for approval. lt seems to me that if the provision which is outlined in the amendment of  Senator McClelland  is not included in this Bill we will be in a very short period of time faced with the same situation as the Government was faced with when it appointed the Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance - the Nimmo Committee - and the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs. The national health scheme had got out of hand and the Government - and I do not expect the members of the Government to be experts on all of these subjects - required advice on how the position could be rectified. It got advice from the Nimmo Committee, which was its own independent committee, on how the position could be rectified. Unfortunately it has not acted on all of the Nimmo Committee's advice. I drew attention to some of the advice which the Government has not acted cn but which 1 thought it would have been fundamental to accept. The Nimmo Committee recommended that there should be adjustments from time to time in the scale of common fees. We know that in its interim report the Senate Select Committee also recommended action of this nature. The Labor Party, which is the Party which is closest to the people of Australia, now seeks to have something mandatory written into the legislation so that a similar position will not arise again. Therefore, I must support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator McClelland.  I am sorry that the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party cannot see the position in the same way as I do. 
It is unfortunate that they are not present in the chamber because they are constantly complaining about the work force wanting increased monetary benefits or improved conditions. The members of the DLP are constantly critical of the work force when it goes on strike. We had an example of this today when  Senator McManus  raised this subject in a debate on the disallowance of a regulation. But when the Labor Party seeks to provide measures whereby a very valuable arm of the work force in Australia will have its wages and remunerations adjusted periodically - we have proposed it be done once every 2 years at least - the members of the DLP fail to support this. I often wonder what would happen if the medical profession were to go on strike, lt is quite likely that in the near future we will have a strike by a branch of the medical services over wages and working conditions. I refer to the nurses. Such a strike would completely disrupt the health services of Australia. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting 1 was talking about the amendment moved by  Senator McClelland  which states: 
The schedule of fees shall be reviewed at least once every 2 years. 
I said that the nurses may be taking industrial action aud it would not be hard to imagine some form of industrial action taken by the medical profession within the terms of its oath. Unless the Government is prepared to include in this legislation some form of escalation clause it is sowing the seeds of the destruction of the national health scheme. Unless the scheme is required to be adjusted from time to time it can quite easily get into the mess which the national health scheme has got into over the past couple of years. In the inflationary spiral which we are going through at the present time it is quite easy to envisage this scheme collapsing unless there is some provision for making adjustments. It is necessary that the adjustments be made at fairly short intervals so that the geographical effects of the common fee concept may be coped with. I cannot see the doctors of Western Australia continuing to give a medical consultation for a fee of $2.80 whilst the general practitioners- 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Bull)Order!  The honourable senators time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Is the Petrel No. 1 off-shore exploration oil well still blowing gas, and has this well been blowing gas since August 1969. 
How much gas is estimated to have been lost as a result of this blowout and when is it likely that the blowout will be controlled. 
Has die Minister representing the Minister for National Development seen a statement to the effect that Esso Standard Oil (Aust) Pty Ltd has contracted to sell 500,000 tons of liquid petroleum gas overseas? If the statement is correct can the Minister advise the price at which the LPG will be sold overseas? If he docs not know the price at which it will be sold overseas, is the Government prepared to issue an export licence for this LPG without disclosure of the price? 
 I enter this debate because of what has been said over the years, and subscribed to by the medical profession, about the Australian Labor Party's health policy, namely, that the Labor Party intended, if it won government, to introduce a compulsory scheme. The scheme that the Labor Party proposed to introduce was one of imposing taxation which would be graduated according to the ability to pay. The Government's so-called voluntary scheme has no regard for the ability to pay. A person pays a flat amount, whatever he wants to insure for. This provision in the legislation makes it compulsory. Do not let us argue that a person has a choice. In this country there may be a few millionaires who have a choice, but the general Australian citizen has no choice but to belong to one of these funds if he is to receive adequate medical treatment in the event of suffering ill health. 
I have to pay more than that and I receive less benefit than a person receives in the honourable senator's State. In addition, the Government says that a person has to belong to a fund and it persists with a multitude of funds, all of which are taking part of the contributors' money for their operation and administration. This is the sort of scheme that the Government wants to force the Australian people to join in order that they may receive the Commonwealth benefit. The funds of this Government belong to the people. They do not belong to the Government. They should be distributed equally amongst the people. To say that people will receive a Commonwealth benefit only if they join a voluntary scheme is the worst form of compulsion because the people are forced to take out of their pockets money which in many cases they can ill afford to pay, in order to attract a Commonwealth benefit. 
The Minister probably will reply that the Government has set up a scheme whereby people within our community will not have to pay into a medical benefits scheme. When you consider a wage of $42.50 it is apparent that it is impossible for people to pay into a scheme. But let us take it one step further to $43. A man on that wage with 4 or 5 children still has to insure with the fund to get benefits. Is the Government saying that because he receives 50c a week more than the other man he can afford to join one of the funds to protect himself and his dependants and to get a Commonwealth benefit? It is wrong for the Government, whether it has a Labor Party philosophy or a Liberal Party philosophy, to set a means test upon the payment of a Commonwealth benefit to which all citizens of Australia should be entitled. For that reason I support the amendment moved by  Senator McClelland. 
We have sat in this chamber this morning and listened to a discourse on the political philosophies of the various parties. Might I analyse it in this way: With all respect to the doubts which  Senator Gair  has expressed, he does not consider that the amendment moved by  Senator McClelland  should be accepted because people who can afford not to become  members of a fund and do not Join a fund should not be entitled to a Commonwealth benefit. My interpretation of what honourable senators on the Government side have said is substantially this: They believe that there should be a measure of responsibility from the citizens in order to qualify for the receipt of the Commonwealth benefit. In other words, they are saying that people who can afford to stay outside a fund should not receive the Commonwealth benefit. 
In the face of the enunciation of political philosophies,I should have expected that there would be some consistency from the Government and the Australian Democratic Labor Party. We have ranged over a wide area in this debate. Some honourable senators have referred to the trade union movement and others have spoken about subsidies paid to rural producers. I wonder what the Government and DLP have to say about providing State aid to wealthy schools? Do they object to subsidising schools like the Geelong Grammar School and several other schools that do not require Commonwealth assistance? Honourable senators on the Government side also subscribe to this policy. So where is the consistency in this matter? Where are the political philosophies? All the political philosophies go down the drain on these occasions. At least, the Australian Labor Party is consistent in its policy. It believes in granting state aid on the basis of need. But the Government and the DLP do not agree with this policy. They think that every school should receive State aid, without any qualifications being applied. If honourable senators opposite are going to speak about their political philosophies, let them be consistent. Let them come out and say: 'People cannot get Commonwealth benefit if they can afford to stay outside the scheme'. 
Many people outside the scheme are not people who can afford to be outside it; they are people who are outside it because of economic necessity. But the Government objects to paying the Commonwealth benefit to those people who stay outside the scheme because they are able to do so, despite the argument on taxation put by  Senator McClelland  and despite the DLP's argument that the Commonwealth should not pay a benefit to those people because they can afford to stay outside the scheme or will not accept the responsibility for joining a scheme which is designed to induce people to join it. Let us be consistent about the matter. The next time the 
Government proposes something on State aid, let us see honourablesenators opposite being consistent and saying: 'We will not give any aid to schools that do not need it.' Even in politics there is a little bit of honesty. The Labor Party believes that there is a little bit of honesty in politics. But the political philosophies which have been enunciated in this chamber today are not honest. They have been conceived to support a philosophy on a certain basis today, but on another occasion when something is brought before the Senate it will be a different matter. I said the other day that the lawyers were like acrobats. I do not know what the people who are opposing this amendment are like - that would be difficult to explain. 
Question put: 
That the request  (Senator McClelland's)  be agreed to. 
I rise to support the . amendment moved by  Senator McClelland.  First of all, I want to have a look at section 32 (1.) of the Act which provides that the Minister may, on behalf of the Commonwealth, enter into an agreement with the Australian Medical Association. Can the Minister give the Senate any assurance that the Australian Medical Association represents the medical profession. If the AMA does not represent the medical profession, is it entitled to come to an agreement with the Minister on the terms and conditions that shall apply to pensioners? 
They do not represent it. The Minister knows, what has been going on ever since Christmas. She knows of the wrangling that has been going on between the AMA and the general practitioners. The general practitioners have said that the AMA does not represent them or has misrepresented them and one of my colleagues in another place, who' is a medical man, has stated clearly that the AMA does not represent the medical profession. Why should the AMA in these circumstances be permitted to come to an agreement that I suspect would be binding upon those medical practitioners who give services to pensioners when the' terms and conditions are not agreed upon by a party which represents them? I think the Minister has to take note of that position. I am informed by some of the medical practitioners that the conference that is to be held very shortly will change the whole set up of the AMA. lt may be that after that the AMA will represent the medical profession but at the present time I say that on information that is available to the public the AMA does not represent the medical profession. If the Minister's advisers axe telling her that it does, I think they are giving her the wrong advice. 
The amendment proposed by  Senator McClelland  states:  and the conditions of the agreement shall be reviewed at least once every 2 years. 
I listened to what the Minister had to say in reply a little while ago. She would have convinced the Senate, I think, that there are reviews of the fees payable to medical practitioners for these services. But the agreement does not only concern fees. It concerns all the other associated services that the medical profession gives to the pensioners. I ask the Minister: Has there been any review of the services? If there have been reviews of the services, at what intervals have they been reviewed? I think it is quite unreasonable of the Government, even insofar as fees are concerned, to resist the inclusion of the words that  Senator McClelland  wants to add. The Government already admits that there are reviews of the fees. The words do not bind the Government not to review them for 2 years but it says that they must be reviewed at least once every 2 years. It may be that they would not require any adjustment within the 2-year period. It would not be necessary for them to be reviewed but at the end of 2 years they must be reviewed. It does not necessarily follow that there will be any adjustment. But they will be reviewed in the light of changes in the cost of living and then they will be adjusted, if necessary, at the end of that time. 
I think that there are 2 propositions here. The first is the unreasonableness of the Government to accept a statutory provision for the review of the conditions of the agreement which go further than fees, and secondly there is the provision as to who is to negotiate with the Minister on behalf of the medical profession. I want to say further that the pensioners under this scheme are not entitled to specialist treatment; they are entitled only to general practitioner services and it is the general practitioners who are dissatisfied with the representation of the AMA. So it is quite clear that, insofar as the services that the 
Government intends to provide and has been providing for the pensioners are concerned, the body of medical practitioners who perform those services and who are parties to this agreement will not be represented by. the AMA because, as I understand the position, the. general practitioners have repudiated the AMA as a representative body of general practitioners. 1 think serious consideration has to be given to this at this point of time. I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
asked the Minister representingthe Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the average deposit in the Commonwealth SavingsBank approximately $500. 
Does the interest payable on savings bank deposits of less than $4,000 still remain at 3.75%. 
Are loans for homes from savings banks deposits being increased to  6.25%  and  6.75%. 
Will the savings bank deposits that do not attract an increased rate of interest be loaned at the increased' rate of loan interest. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth Savings Bank adopted a policy of lending amounts in excess of $8,000 for home building and purchase, at the interest rate of 8%. 
Is there any limit on the amount that the Bank is willing to lend under this policy. 
Is the lending under this policy restricted to home building or purchase. 
I direct the attention of the Committee, in dealing with the amendment proposed by  Senator McClelland,  to sub-section (2.) of section 69 of the principal Act and the information detailed therein; that is, particulars relating to the affairs, finances, rules and conduct of an organisation. These are vital matters in a contributory scheme, a so-called voluntary contributory scheme. Contributors to a fund should know all the facts of those funds, many as they are. A person who wishes to examine the rules of a fund should bc able lo obtain a copy of them. The Minister said thai certain details ace available. 1 applied for  a  copy of the rules crf the Hospital Benefits Fund of Western Australia, but 1 have not been able to get it. Copies of the rules are not available to the general public. They may be available to other people, but they should be available to all contributors to the fund.. 
We ali are aware of the disgraceful position of the various funds throughout Australia in that huge amounts have been built up as reserves over the years on the pretext that it is necessary to provide for emergencies that might arise at a time of an epidemic. If ever an epidemic breaks out in Australia requiring the expenditure of sums of money as large as the funds wish to hold as reverves, it will be a lime of national emergency to be dealt with by this Government, and not a time for the funds to deal with the people affected by such an emergency. The word 'shall' should apply to the finances of the funds handled on behalf of their contributors. No discretion should be provided in sub-section (1.) of section 69 in that the regulations may provide for these matters. I direct the attention of the Committee to the proposed new section 76a, which provides: 
The Director-General shall, as soon as practicable after the thirtieth day of June in each year, commencing wilh the year one thousand nine hundred and seventy-one. furnish lo the Minister a report of the operations of registered organisations during the year ending on that date. 
That provision is that a report shall be furnished to the Minister, ls the report of the Director-Genera? of Health to be confidential to the Minister? ls it to be tabled in this Parliament so that the elected representative of the people will be able to examine it? Where do we go? Proposed section 76a(2.) states: 
The report shall include, in respect of each medical benefits fund or hospital benefits fund conducted by the registered organisation during the year to which the report relates, the following information in respect of the fund or, if he fund includes a special account, in respect of the part nf the fund other than the special account: 
contributions payable lo the fund; 
other amounts payable to the fund: 
medical fund benefits or hospital fund benefits payable out of the fund; 
other  benefits payable out of the fund; 
management expenses; 
other  amounts payable out of the fund; 
the balance of the fund  as  at the end of that year;  ami 
such other information  as  the Minister requires to be included. 
That is a shall' to the Minister, but by section 69 the Government wants to make it permissive. We say that the word 'shall' should be included and that the amendment should be carried because we think that this information should be made available when the organisations are reporting. To make regulations that may provide for these things is all right. The regulations that provide for these things may not be made. We think that there should be no discretion with respect to this. We think that unless the full facts of the affairs, finances, rules and conduct of the organisation are made available to the Director-General of Health the organisation should not bc registered. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [4.27] - I confirm what. 1 have said already. The Government feels that the Act as it stands is best for what is required. We have to realise that this section deals purely with the application of an organisation for registration. It is not thought that the section should be unnecessarily rigid. I again inform the Senate that the Government opposes the amendment. 
I have heard some extraordinary speeches from the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who has just resumed his seat, but his speech tonight was one of the most extraordinary. I believe that he set out not to argue what was in the Bill but to belittle what  Senator Cavanagh  had said. It is the Australian Labor Party's proposition that these things should be done by regulation as they apply to the registration of organisations. There is little difference between the amendment and what is contained in sub-section (1.) of section 73 of the principal Act. Sub-section (1.) states: 
The Minister may, after taking into account the report of the Committee, register the organisation subject to such terms and conditions (if any) as he thinks fit or refuse to register the organisation. 
There is little difference between that and what is proposed in the amendment, except that he shall register the organisation accordingly. We think that in what is perhaps a minor field of administration, as it was referred to by the Leader of the Government (Sena:or Anderson), we should proceed by regulation. This should be not merely a matter of administration - simply the registration of organisations based on the advice of a committee that has been set up. The Minister is not bound to accept the advice but the advice is available to him. It is known that under the old section the Minister has exercised his discretion in the registration of organisations where the rules of the organisations have varied greatly. For instance, in Western Australia we have organisations to which people pay contributions but under the Workers Compensation Act the medical and hospital benefits are limited. When people exhaust their entitlements under the Workers Compensation Act if they are members of benefit organisations they can then start to receive benefits from those organisations. But there are 2 funds in the State that have been registered by the Minister despite the fact that they refuse to pay benefits after the exhaustion of the benefits under the Workers Compensation Act, so people pay into these funds and do not get benefits out of them. 
These are the sorts of things that we do not want to occur. We say that this should be done by regulation so that provisions are somewhat uniform- I do not want everything to be restricted - and the Minister does not have discretion to register funds which will be able to take benefits from people in circumstances so very greatly different from the circumstances under which people receive benefits from other funds. 
 This is the regulation, though. 
 Is the Minister going to have a regulation for every benefit fund? 
 This is what the Minister is proposing when she says that it is subject to such terms and conditions.  I  want to move on to the proposed amendment to sub-section (4.) which states that  a  register shall be open for public inspection. Why should it not be? 
 The Act provides that the register shall not be open for inspection except by a person authorised in writing by the Minister. 
-I am  looking at section 73. We will probably get to section 81. We say that proposed section 73 should be amended by making provision in subsection (4.) that a register shall be open for public inspection. What is there to hide? Why should not these things be open for public inspection? The Government constantly talks about this being a public benefit, that the people should belong to the funds, that it is public insurance. Are the people only to have the interest of paying contributions and taking out benefits, whatever benefits the funds might pay out to them and whatever benefits the Government might pay out to them? Are they not entitled to examine the register? Are they not entitled to know that the fund that is encouraging them to join it is a registered fund? Surely they are entitled to examine the register. I support the amendment. 

 Senator GREENWOOD (Victoria) 8.23 -I am quite unrepentant in my very firm support for this amendment. 1 regret very much that I cannot see this regulation or this amendment in the way in which the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  and the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  see them. When one looks at the National Health Act one finds that an organisation, which is the body with which we are concerned in the amendment which is before the Committee, is defined as meaning a society, body or group of persons, whether corporate or unincorporate, which conducts a medical benefits or hospitals benefits fund. It may be in the traditional sense a proprietary body. It may be an aggregation of individuals and in that sense a voluntary body, but it is nevertheless a legal entity which is concerned to become an organisation under this Act. It makes an application to the Director-General with a view to being accepted as an organisation. By the amendment which the Committee has earlier passed it must comply with certain provisions which are contained in regulations. The organisation does what it is required to do and when the application is received everything connected with that organisation is examined by a commitee. The committee then reports to the Minister and the Minister, under what the Government proposes, is then given a power to grant, subject to such terms and conditions, if any. as he thinks fit, the application which has been made. On the other hand the Minister is given the power to refuse the application. 
The section which is proposed by the Government says that if be grants the application he shall register the organisation accordingly and what one has therefore is an application accepted and a registration made, and an organisation is registered subject to such conditions as the Minister determines.I would have thought that that situation, even if it is called an administrative act, has with it all the elements which can work justice or injustice according to the way the Minister looks at it. This organisation may find itself subjected to conditions which the Minister imposes which are different from the conditions which are imposed by the Minister on a similar organisation. There is scope for discrimination; there is scope for injustice. 
Amongst other things the amendment moved by  Senator McClelland  asks for details of how the reserve funds have been invested. With respect to the Minister. I think ibis is a very pertinent question. These are sums of money paid by the contributors to the fund. They do not belong to the Government; they do not belong to the fund. They belong to the contributors. Whilst it is practical for any fund which is operating in a risk industry to have some reserves, it is not a practical proposition that the reserves of the various funds operating throughout Australia should be running at the rate of S63m. The schedule in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs shows that the free reserves, as they are referred to, have increased from $1,658,894 in 1951-52 to §63,723,467 in 1967-68, which is the latest figure I imagine the Committee was able to obtain. This is an enormous amount of money which belongs to the contributors to the fund. Whilst funds are allowed to build up such enormous reserves the payments by the contributors to the funds must be increased continuously to maintain those reserves. I cannot accept as valid the reasons given by the funds for maintaining reserves at their present level. The Senate Select Committee recommended: 
That the reserves held by health insurance organisations should be limited to an amount equal to 3 months' contribution income, in addition to provisions', as clearly defined. 
lt is page 34. The Committee recommended: 
That all reserves in excess of 'provisions' and an amount equal to 3 months' contribution income, held by 'open' health insurance organisations, should be transferred to a special health insurance stabilisation account, established and controlled by the Commonwealth Government. 
When one looks at the schedule which, for the information of  Senator Greenwood,  is on page 136, one sees that $63,723,467 represents 7.1 months reserves, lt is obvious from the report by the Senate Select Committee that the reserves are excessive. We have heard nothing in these debates yet - and I have been in the Senate chamber for most of them - to indicate whether the Government intends to have any control over the reserves of these funds. I think it is essential that Parliament should know the details of how the reserve funds have been invested. 
Again I say that these funds belong to the contributors - the shareholders in the registered organisations..  The shareholders in the registered organisations, like the shareholders in most organisations, have little control over finances and how they shall be invested. The so called reserve funds could be invested in any sort of wild cat scheme. That sometimes happens. That has been happening recently in the stock markets. These funds could be lost. This has not only happened in wild cat schemes; the blue chip industries have fallen remarkably over the past few weeks. I say that it is valid for the Labor Party to ask that the reserve funds be included among those things which should be reported. It is not unreasonable, I think, to ask for the names of the shareholders in the fund, the equity held by each shareholder in the fund and the names of all directors of that fund. This is not an unreasonable thing for the Parliament to know and for the report to show. Remembering all the time that this report is made to the Minister, section 76a(1.) provides that the Director-General shall report these matters to the Minister. It does not necessarily mean that the Minister will report to the Parliament. I would have liked an amendment that the Minister be bound to report to the Parliament once each year. 
If the information is to be made available to the Parliament I apologise for what I have just said. I think the matters put forward by  Senator McClelland  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party are valid matters for this Parliament, with particular reference to the reserves. We think we should know about these reserves. We should know how much they are and where they are located. It is interesting to note that the Senate Select Committee debunked the proposition of the funds with respect to holding reserves for emergency, epidemics or catastrophes. 
I want to raise a couple of aspects of the amendment proposed by  Senator McClelland.  The subsidy on the medical contribution is not payable in respect of a person receiving benefits under the Tuberculosis Act, the Act relating to sheltered workshops and the Act relating to the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service. As the Minister has said, in most of those cases the people concerned would be receiving some form of medical service. I raise with the Minister the case of the male, the head of the family, who is receiving treatment and benefits under the Tuberculosis Act and whose dependants may require medical or hospital treatment. The onus then would be on the person receiving assistance under the Tuberculosis Act to take out insurance to protect his dependants. 
I do not know what benefits are payable at present under the Tuberculosis Act. I know that over the years they have been rather generous when considered in relation to other social service benefits although not extremely generous. They were set down as an encouragement to persons to go into hospital and be treated for tuberculosis knowing that there was sufficient income for the family to live on while the treatment was being received. So the benefits under the Tuberculosis Act were much better than the benefits under the Social Services Act but they were never more than  the minimum wage. A person receiving benefits under the Tuberculosis Act would also be receiving free medical treatment for his condition but his dependants would not receive free medical treatment and out of the meagre income, if I might so term it, that the tuberculosis patient would be receiving he still would have to pay for some form of medical insurance to protect his dependants. 
Much the same position would apply to the person working in a sheltered workshop and to the person in a Commonwealth rehabilitation centre subject, of course, to the fact that a very strict means test is applied to persons in Commonwealth rehabilitation centres. They have to comply with certain requirements of the Department of Social Services and their remuneration is not very great in relation to benefits under the Social Services Act. Nevertheless they would have to take out some form of medical and hospital insurance to protect their dependants. For this reason we say that this Part should not be included in the Act, that the restrictions contained in it are much greater than those in the Social Services Act and that it would be better to delete the words as proposed by  Senator McClelland. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing)[ 1 0.7.] - I am informed that the dependants of the people who have been mentioned - those working in sheltered workshops, the tuberculosis patients and the others - are covered by the pensioner medical service. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause agreed to subject to a request. 
Clause 42.  42.- (I.) Sections 82R 82s and 82r of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections inserted in their stead; - "82r.  . . .  "82s.-  (1.)  Where- 
a contributor to a medical benefits fund lodges with the organization that conducts the fund a claim in respect of a professional service that has been rendered (whether before or after the contributor became a contributor) to himself or to one of his dependants; 
the professional service was rendered on or after the proclaimed date, and during a period in relation to which this section -applies in respect of the contributor; 
under a provision included in the pules ofthe organization for the purpose of enablingthis section and the next succeeding section to apply in relation  to  the organization, contributions were not payable by the contributor  to  the fund in respect of that period or the payment of contributions by the. contributor  to  the fund in respect of that period has been waived; and 
the organization pays to, or to a person on behalf of. the contributor fund benefit in respect of the professional service, there is payable to the organization by the Common wealth an amount equal to the fund benefit referred to in paragraph (d) ofthis sub-section. " (2.) Where- 
a contributor to a hospital benefits fund lodges with the organization that conducts the fund a claim in respect of hospital treatment that has been received (whether before or after the contributor became a contributor) by himself or by one of his dependants; 
the hospital treatment was received on or afterthe proclaimed date and during a period in relation to which this section applies in respect of the contributor; 
the contributor is a contributor forthe approved scale of benefits in relation to the fund or for a scale of benefits greater than those provided by the approved scale of benefits; 
under a provision included in the rules of the organisation for the purpose of enabling this section and the next succeeding section to apply in relation to the organisation, contributions where not payable by the contributor to the fund in respect of that period or the payment of contributions by the contributor to the fundin respect of that period has been waived; and 
the organisation pays to, or to a person on behalf of, the contributor, as fund benefit in respect of that hospital treatment - 
the amount of fund benefit in accordance with the scale of benefits for which the contributor is a contributor; or 
if that amount exceeds the prescribed amount, an amount equal to (he prescribed amount, and no more, there is payableto the organisation bythe Commonwealth -  (0  if the contributor is a contributor for the approved scale of benefits - an amount equal tothe amount paid as fund benefit in accordance with paragraph (e) of this sub-section: or 
in any other case - an amount equalto the amount that would have been paid as fund benefit in accordance with paragraph (c) of this sub-section if the contributor had been, when the hospital treatment was received, a contributor for the approved scale of benefits.  "82t.- (l.) . . . "(2.) Where- 
a contributor to a medical benefits fund lodges with the organisation that conducts the fund a claim in respect of a professional service that has been rendered to himself or to one of his dependants (including, where the determination is a Class A determination, a professional service rendered before the contributor became a contributor); 
where the determination is a Class A determination - the fund benefit referred to in paragraph (d) of this section; 
where the determination is a Class B determination - two thirds of the fund benefit referred to in paragraph (d) of this subsection; or 
where the determination is a Class C determination - one-third of the fund benefit referred to in paragraph (d) of this sub-section. "(5.) In sub-section (3.) of this section, 'the prescribed amount' means the amount (if any) by which the sum of the gross fees and extra charges incurred in respect of the hospital treatment concerned is greater than the amount of Commonwealth and miscellaneous fund benefit payable in respect of the hospital treatment.". 
I  congratulate the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  for bringing this Bill before the Parliament. I have closely read his second reading speech. It is not a speech I would have expected from a member of the Government, even though I appreciate that  Mr McEwen  has for a number of years been disturbed about the amount of overseas investment in Australia and the loss of control of Australian industries. One calls to mind, for example, his famous statement to a Country Party conference in Victoria in 1963. Despite the views expressed in that statement it has taken until now in 1970 to launch this Bill and b!ing it before the Parliament. I can appreciate some of  Mr McEwen's  difficulties in a previous government when he was having trouble with the Treasurer of that time and out of which arose the Australian Resources Development Bank. 
This Bill seeks to set up a corporation that has for its purpose the borrowing of moneys overseas and within Australia to finance development projects in Australia - the development of resources, manufacturing or what have you. Some limitations are placed on the finance that the Corporation will have at its disposal, lt is a little disappointing at a time when overseas investment is running at about SI20(!m that the Corporation will have available to it $200m. Nevertheless, this measure will fill some of the gap if it is not hamstrung by conservative directors or other people wishing to sabotage the scheme. 
For this reason the Australian Labor Party supports the Bill, although we realise that it is not the type of legislation we would introduce if we were on the treasury bench. We would wish to see a much more virile sort of legislation brought into the Parliament because we have for a large number of years been disturbed by the amount of overseas investment in Australia and the loss of control of Australian industries. I do not want anyone to accuse me or my Party of being opposed to overseas investment. We realise that for Australia as a developing country overseas investment is necessary. We are concerned when those overseas funds enter into monopoly arrangements because that is the way that we lose control of our industries and resources. We do not think that that is the right result. 
We think there should be joint ventures in this country, that Australians should be participants in the development of our resources and manufacturing industries. Australians should be given an opportunity to become partners in the development of this land.  I  will have something to say later on about guidelines, but at present  I  want to say that, whilst guidelines have been laid down at various times for overseas investment in Australia and the raising of funds in Australia for foreign companies or corporations, guidelines are of little use unless they are adhered to and policed. The tragedy that has befallen various Prime Ministers who have been in charge of the government of Australia is that constantly they have issued guidelines and principles for overseas investment and for the raising of funds in Australia. Having issued the statements, they have forgotten completely about what happens from there on. 
One other point I make - and I will develop it later - with respect to overseas investment concerns the tendency towards monopoly control, particularly when the investment comes from multi-national corporations which do not want their funds distributed all over the world without having some kind of control. Also, I say that we should have regard to the value of the assets that we sell to attract overseas investment. I think very few people have really looked at this position in the context of overseas investment. This Bill is one of the bright lights of 20 years of conservative government in Australia. The bright lights in this 20-year period have been very few. 1 have always claimed that the long-term problem for Australia would be the problem of overseas investment. This is the first real attempt that has been made to try to get some Australian equity in Australian industries. 
One other reason why we welcome this legislation into the statute books is that when we become the government we will amend this legislation in a form that is more in line with the policies of the Australian Labor Party. We will become the government after the next election, whenever it is held. It may be earlier than the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  thinks because things are moving to somewhat of a crisis. It might require a little courage to take both chambers to the country within the next 6 months. Whenever the election is, I am confident that the Australian people will elect an Australian Labor Party government. 
I propose to be critical of overseas investment. 1 propose to give an indication of the position in Australia at present, as far as one is able to ascertain it. I am hopeful that this legislation will cure that position. From 1948-49 to 1968-69 there have been only 4 years in those 21 years when we have had a favourable balance on current account. Generally the deficit on current account has been matched by the overseas inflow of funds. When one looks at the accounts generally, one sees another similarity in that the export and import accounts have been in balance. 
The main danger to the Australian economy is the invisibles. One of the big items in the invisibles is freight rates on exports and imports. About 18 months ago one had hopes that the imbalance might be reversed somewhat. The Minister for Trade and Industry announced that the Australian National Line would charter ships to enter into the overseas trade. That has all gone by the board now because the Australian National Line has joined the overseas consortium. It will be subject to the rules of the overseas consortium and we will not get the relief we would have got through having our own shipping line. If the invisibles for the period about which I have spoken are looked at, it will be seen that there has been an enormous increase in the deficit on invisibles and that this increase has been accelerated over the past 8 to 10 years. This has been brought about mainly by the repatriation of funds and dividend?' overseas. The inevitable result of overseas investment is that dividends have to be paid overseas and we have to finance the paying of the dividends overseas. 
The present position has been brought about also by the actions of overseas governments over which we have no control. The 2 main investors in Australia are the United Kingdom and the United States of America. Both countries have placed restrictions on the expatriation of their funds. In America about 4 years ago  President  Johnson asked companies which had overseas investments to repatriate as much of their funds as they possibly could because the United States was running into balance of payments difficulties. We all know the difficulties that the money moguls caused for  Mr Wilson  in England almost from the day that he took office in 1963.  Mr Wilson's  first action was to go to the International Bank for a loan of £stg3,7O0m to put the British economy into some kind of workable order. The 7 years since then have seen a battle by the British Labour Government to try to stabilise the economy of that country, with all the forces of international finance opposed to it. Decisions are taken by overseas governments over which we have no control. One of the disturbing features of having too much overseas investment in a country is that the Government cannot control the investment. Its economy is placed in such a position that the Government cannot say from day to day what its financial position will be. 
The funds flowing out of Australia at present are running at about S600m a year. Even though we have had on the average during recent years about$1, 200m coming into the country, approximately 50% is going out to service investments that have been made in this country in previous years. If the current position is allowed to continue, before the end of the decade the outgoings will exceed the inflow. The Australian Labor Party welcomes this legislation because it will arrest that position to some extent. This is not the first time the Australian Labor Party has been critical of overseas investment. On several occasions in this chamber I have spoken on overseas investment. Colleagues in another place have been advocating some control of overseas investment for a good number of years. My Party will continue to be critical of uncontrolled overseas investment even though this legislation is on the statute book. I said earlierthat this measure is a very bright light in 20 years of conservative government, but the light is dimmed when one looks at it in perspective and against the position which it set out to cure. Nevertheless the Australian Labor Party believes that the legislation will serve a useful purpose. I am not persuaded by the arguments put forward by defenders of overseas investment who say that 85% to 90% of investment funds generated for Australian development are generated internally. This is a statement that is made only to avoid facing up to the problems of what overseas investment and control are doing. 
One should be looking not so much at the amount of overseas investment but at the area of overseas investment. Just where do the funds which come into this country go? How are they invested? The pharmaceutical industry is 93% overseas owned. This Government has continually shirked the responsibility of having any form of price control with the result that the manufacturers of pharmaceutical goods are able to charge whatever prices they like for their products. The taxpayers pay the price. That is all it amounts to. The companies fix whatever profit margin they want for the goods they have to sell. Under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act, Consolidated Revenue pays the price the manufacturers require. 
I think the word demand' would be stronger. This industry is a key industry in the national health scheme, which has occupied this Senate for the last week. Yet we allow one of the key industries in our national health scheme to be in the hands of overseas monopolists. The industry not only demands profits - and in many cases the profits are exorbitant - but it adds to the price of the goods they sell today provision for future development. Those who are buying the goods today are paying for the developments which may take place in the future. Those developments may not even be within Australia. These are international companies which are developing all over the world. They often operate on an international basis, and they gather their moneys wherever it is easiest for developmental activity in other countries. 
The petroleum refining and distribution industry is 96% overseas owned. This industry is the key to the Australian transport industry yet decisions can be made in this industry by boards of directors in the United States or London. We have no control over them. The lifelines of Australia depend upon the goodwill of these overseas investors. Our trains, ships, aircraft and road transport all depend upon the profits of the petroleum refining and distribution industry. But it goes a little further than that. We find that some of our own crude  oil  is substantially overseas owned. We have a 20% interest in the Queensland oil and gas fields. The rest is overseas owned. We have a 141/2% interest in the Western Australian oil and gas fields. It is likely that the percentage is not even that high because we do not know what overseas shareholdings there are in Ampol Exploration Pty Ltd. Ampol Exploration Pry Ltd, as a company, has a one-seventh interest in Western Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd. As to Victoria. we are told constantly that the Australian people have a 50% interest in the Bass Strait oil and gas fields. It is completely wrong for people to say that because Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is a half partner with Esso Exploration and Production Australia Incorporated in these fields that Australia has a 50% share. When one looks at BHP one finds that 16% of BHP shares are owned overseas. One finds that in addition to the 50% interestthat Esso has in this Bass Strait field it is the operating company and it takes 6% of production for operating expenses. Then one finds that  Mr Lewis 
Weeks lakes another 2i% as royalty for being a good boy and putting BHP on to the offshore areas. 
If one examines the Australian holding in Bass Strait one finds that the approximate interest of the Australian people through the BHP shareholding is 35% and not 50%. In fact, if one examines the oil exploration and production industry in Australia one finds that it is 85% overseas owned. Honourable senators can see how vulnerable we are to the oil monopolies who are quite ruthless people. Anyone who likes to read their history over the years will notice that they have made and broken more governments than one can throw a stick at. They will continue to do so in the interests of profit. Through laxity the Government has allowed the refining and distribution of oil to be 96% overseas owned and exploration and production to be 85% overseas owned. That is not a very pretty picture for the Australian people to look at. 
It was mooted in the Press a few days ago that the Post Office will show a loss of $19m this year and that it is likely that there will have to be increases in some postal charges. Yet the telecommunications industry is 83% overseas owned. The companies in this industry, being in this monopoly position, are able to make the charges they want to make for the goods they sell, and the Post Office has to buy them and the people have to pay for them. So again it is the Australian consumer who pays all along the line. 
Australia is a fairly rich country. It has been said that Australia is a lucky country. I believe that it is a lucky country to have survived the way it has under the type of government it has had for the past 20 years. 
 I hope the honourable senator goes and tells the farmers that it has taken 20 years for the Government to ruin them. We put them on the boards. Everyone wanted to get into the farming industry when we were in government. It has taken this Government 20 years to ruin them. 
And very successfully, too. Nevertheless I say that Australia is a lucky country to be in the position in which it is today, considering the type of government we have had and the fact that the Government has paid so little attention to the way overseas funds have been allowed to come into the country. In fact  Mr McEwen,  in his second reading speech, drew attention to the laxity of control. 
The bauxite and aluminium industry is 75% overseas owned. We have perhaps the largest bauxite resources in the world. We are mining bauxite in large quantities. But how much processing are we doing? This is the field that we have to get into - the processing of our raw materials. Little labour is employed in working a great quarry with mechanical implements. All such industries today are becoming capital intensive. They are no longer labour intensive. The result is that little labour is employed, a whole heap of goods is taken out and all we are left with is a hole in the ground. 
Actually, we do take bauxite to the first stage of processing by producing alumina; but that is as far as we go. The result of that is that we are selling a raw material overseas at a very low price, whereas if we were selling the finished article we would have employment for thousands of people in this country and the goods that we were selling overseas would be bringing a very much higher price, which would make our trade balances very much more in our favour. We have the Weipa deposit, which is supposed to be the biggest deposit of bauxite in the world. I might dispute that with some of my Queensland colleagues. 1 do not know how much we have in Western Australia but I know that people are destroying jarrah forests to get the bauxite out. Jarrah forests take hundreds of years to generate, but these people just go on ripping out the forests in order to get the bauxite out. I do not know which is the more valuable - 'the timber or the bauxite. However, the overseas investors are there and they are taking the bauxite out. 
We have large deposits of bauxite at Gove. We also have a large deposit of bauxite at a place called Admiralty Gulf on the north-west coast of Western Australia. A consortium proposes to develop it with an investment of $294m. There has been a lot of talk about it by various people, particularly by 'Give-away Charlie'. I refer to Charlie Court, the Minister for 
Industrial Development in Western Australia. He would give it all away. I do not know what he is getting for it but the Australian people are not getting very much. This consortium made provision for a 25% Australian equity interest in this deposit, but Australian investors have failed to take up their 25% interest. Of course,  Mr Court  says that the project will go ahead even if Australians do not take up their 25% interest. But I believe that the article to which I am about to refer may reveal why the Australian people are a little reluctant to invest in this project, lt says: 
However, the real deterrent for Australian participants must be the make-up of the Amax consortium. 
These are Amax itself - a sizeable aluminium producer in the US - Sumitomo Chemical and Shown Denko KK of Japan - also aluminium producers and Holland Aluminium NV and  Vereinigte Aluminium-Werke  AG, two of Europe's larger producers. 
Since each of the five members of the consortium are aluminium producers (and therefore large alumina consumers), production economics dictate that they obtain their alumina al the cheapest possible price. 
And this in turn suggests that the  Amax-led  alumina refinery project may be run more as a service industry catering to ils shareholders rather than as  a  potential high profit earner. 
I simply ask  Senator Anderson,  as the Minister in charge of the Bill and the Minister representing the Treasurer, this question: What will the Commissioner of Taxation say about that? If we cannot obtain an Australian equity and if we allow these people to produce alumina at the lowest possible price as a service to their aluminium industries overseas so that no profits are made here, what will the Commissioner of Taxation say about that and what will the Government say about the issue of an export licence? 
The soap and detergent industry is 80% overseas owned. This is an essential industry with not only guaranteed profits for the companies in it but also guaranteed profits for the television industry. If the advertisements for soaps, detergents and cosmetics were taken off the televisions screens, every television station in Australia would go broke. Yet it is the people of Australia, the consumers of the soaps, detergents and cosmetics, who pay for the advertising on the television screens. These products are constantly advertised on television. 
Then we have the chemical industry, which is 60% overseas owned. Many of its products are subsidised. In fact, the industry gobbles up the whole of the superphosphate subsidy. That subsidy is no longer passed on to the farmers. In fact, it is less of a subsidy and more of a support price for the manufacturers of superphosphate. The rest of the chemical industry operates behind high tariff barriers. The inevitable result of high tariff barriers is, of course, increased prices. Once again the Australian consumer has to meet the increase. 
The motor vehicle manufacturing industry is 95% overseas owned. 1 cannot growl too much about this because it was a Labor government which persuaded General Motors to begin vehicle manufacture in Australia. In view of the anticipated growth of motor traffic it was decided that Australia needed a motor vehicle manufacturing industry. But what has happened? The Australian industry is not allowed lo produce the latest models made by the parent company because these would be sold in world competition with the parent company. lt is also not allowed to export to certain areas of the world. The industry is being dictated to by the boards of directors in Detroit. This is something that the Government should have been looking at a lot sooner. 
When one comes to the essentials of life one finds that the food production industry in Australia is 50% overseas owned. But there is no form of price control. The people of Australia can be and are being exploited by overseas investors. One has only to question housewives in the various cities of Australia to find out just how price rises are accelerating. There is no control over prices. The companies in this industry can do what they like because people must cat. Because of low wages some people may have to eat substandard food, but they still have to eat. 
I said earlier that I would have something to say about the assets which we sell overseas. I want to talk about the Mount Tom Price project and the Hamersley organisation in Western Australia. Hamersley started the mining of iron ore in that State. The story has been falsely spread all over Australia that Australians would not invest in the risk industry of iron ore. 1 wonder what chance the Australian people were given to invest in this industry and what was the extent of the risk money required to be invested. My information is that the amount of risk capital required was $2.5m and not the £120m which Hamersley claimed was needed to develop the industry. That is the figure which is constantly stated, but my information is that the amount of risk capital required was only $2.5m. I understand that the S2.5m was used to carry out a feasibility study of a railway line and port and conduct an examination and analysis of the ore deposits. This was done by a joint venture between the Kaiser Steel Corporation and Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd in the ratio of 40% to 60%. Having found out the value of the deposit and the cost of the installations which were required they went to Japan and sold 62.5 million tons of iron ore at £4.9s.6d a ton. This provided them with all the asset backing they wanted to go on to the international market and raise the £120m for the development of the project. 
We were told in this country that we had an iron ore deposit which was attracting to Australia an investment of £120m. Nothing could have been further from the truth. The amount of investment in Australia was £70m. The balance of the money was invested in Japanese steel to build a railway line and a port. The machinery for loading the ore and the heavy earth moving equipment to mine the ore came from the United States of America. All Australia got out of it was the labour involved and the cost of the housebuilding material and the jarrah sleepers to construct the railway line. We had then an investment in Australia of some $140m. But what did we give these people for their investment? We gave them 645 million tons of high grade ore at an average price overseas of $8.50 a ton. The asset which we sold for SI 40m is valued at $5, 282. 5m. If honourable senators are not satisfied with this evaluation they have only to look at the shares of these companies. Hamersley's shares rose to $16 each on the Sydney Stock Exchange. Today they are $8 each. The value of the shareholding at $16 a share was $1.600m. The value today is $800m. This is the asset which the Government sold for an investment of $140m in Australia. 
The story starts to sting a little bit more as one progresses. Having got this sort of investment and this industry afloat someone persuaded the joint venture of Kaiser and 
CRA to give the Australian people an equity shareholding in this industry. In order to find out what goes on in this respect one has to look at the capitalisation of the joint venture. It was floated with 100 million shares at 50c each, which would give the joint venture a capital of $50m. Eventually, the joint venture agreed to give the Australian people a 10% shareholding. The Kaiser shareholding was dropped to 36% and the CRA shareholding was dropped to 54%. Ten million shares were sold to the Australian people for $25m, which represents $2.50 a share. So we find that, in relation to this huge asset which the Government has given away, for S25m the Kaiser Steel Corporation and CRA will retain a 90% interest and for $25m the Australian people will have a 10% interest. Is this the sort of joint venture and the sort of Australian equity that the Government is satisfied for the Australian people to have? I have explained already what the risk capital was and what risk the people took to get into this industry. But we find that it goes a little farther. Last September a new set of guidelines on overseas investment was brought down. I propose to quote only a couple of passages from what the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said. At page 1383 of Hansard of 16th September 1969 the Prime Minister said: 
Companies wholly overseas-owned and established in Australia for periods of less than  4  years will be allowed local borrowings of up to  2i%  of the increase in funds employed for each year that they have been established. Such companies will henceforth have  a  new base and  a  new percentage applied each year until they have been established here  4  years. From that time onwards they will be allowed local borrowings of up to  10%  of subsequent increases in funds employed. For companies in which Australians have a share of the equity, additional borrowings to those set out above will be allowed. The extent of the additional borrowings will be determined by the share of the total equity in the company held by Australians. 
Within a month of that announcement I picked up a newspaper and found that Hamersley Holdings Ltd had gone onto the Australian market to raise a $50m debenture issue in Australia. That company has a 10% shareholding only in an Australian enterprise and is not reinvesting $500m. This is why I say the guidelines announced by the Prime Minister do not count for anything unless the Government is prepared to police them and see that what if says is the pattern is adhered to. I should like now to quote from an article which was written not by a Socialist but by a member of the Liberal Party. The man to whom I refer is an economist who has paid a great deal of attention to the way that Australia is being sold. 
No. I think he was writing the article long before this Bill was introduced. He was being critical of the Government's handling of the economic policy of Australia. 
I am talking about a Bill thatI hope the honourable senator will have the intestinal fortitude to oppose, if he does not agree with it. 1 am talking about a position which has arisen in Australia and whichI hope this Bill will cure. However, I do not think it will cure the situation because it is not strong enough and the Corporation's finances will not be strong enough. Nevertheless, I think it will go some of the way towards curing a position that I have been complaining about. This article which was written not by me but by an economist, who is a member of the Liberal Party, states: 
Having regard to the various limitations implicit in Government statistics, the table below sets out, in millions of dollars, Australia's loss of assets and increases in debts to overseas countries: 

<graphic href="044232197006045_45_0.jpg"></graphic>

This assumes some $1,900 will be lost from 30.6.68 to 31.12.1969. Recent figures for Australia's loss of assets to overseas plus increases in debts are: 

<graphic href="044232197006045_45_1.jpg"></graphic>

The deteriorationlast year meantthat each family in Australia sold out assets and raised debts overseas of more than $500. This position is not generally realised, because this over expenditure is done via the Government. It is explained away by that magical item which balances Australia's 
Balance  of  Payments, namely Capital  Inflow. 
Debts,  however, plus sales of assets overseas can  only rise to a  certain level before credit is exhausted and  there  is nothing much  more  to sell.  In 1950  Australia's overseas currency reserves equalled  14  months imports, now they  are  three  or four  months imports (plus  some  drawing rights). This is the position as this economist sees it. 
 Mr Ian  Sykes of XL Petroleum Pty Limited. He is a man who is prepared to buck the big petrol consortiums and international combines. One other case to which I want to draw attention concerns Bass Strait oil. When  Mr Weeks  put the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd on to the off-shore areas of Victoria the company carried out its aeromagnetic and seismic surveys and considered that the area had prospects, but it did not think that the company had the necessary finance or technical know-how to be able to carry out exploration in this area. Consequently it looked about the world for a partner and eventually made a deal with Esso Standard Oil (New Jersey) Limited to spend$10m and sink 5 wells in the company's permit areas in Bass Strait. For doing that, if they struck anything they were to have a 50% interest in whatever they struck. They are getting much more than that, of. course, as 1 explained earlier. 
It is important to remember the name Esso Standard Oil (New Jersey) Limited, which is the company with which BHP contracted to perform this work and to earn this interest. Esso Standard Oil (New Jersey) Limited did not come to Australia; it formed an operating company in Australia. As I understand it, the operating company has no assets in its own right in Hemetite Petroleum Pty Limited, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of BHP and which operates in conjunction with Esso in this area. It was lucky - and all good fortune to it - to find oil and gas in Bass Strait. It wanted to exploit its discovery, and it was given permission by the then Treasurer,  Mr William  McMahon, and the Reserve Bank of Australia to go to the Australian people for a $30m debenture issue. But it is important to note who raised the debenture issue in Australia. It was not Esso Standard (New Jersey): it was Esso Standard (Australia) Ltd. It would be interesting to ascertain, if one were able to do so. the backing for that S30m debenture issue, because it is my opinion that Esso Standard (Australia) Ltd does not own anything; yet it was able to go on to the market in Australia and raise a S30m debenture issue. For the sake of a good name 1 do not doubt that it would be backed by Esso Standard (New Jersey), but the position is that a company without assets was allowed to go onto the market in Australia and raise a. debenture issue. 
These are the sorts of practices that this Government has allowed to develop in Australia over the years. Many millions of dollars are invested in Australia at the present time, which will earn profits probably for the next 50 years. We will continue to pay out. I welcome the measure that is before the chamber today, limited though it is. I disagree with  Senator Gair  when he says that things happen in the evolution of time. This Corporation should have been established 10 years ago. Then we would have had some share in all these big developments that are taking place in Australia today. 1 hope the Bill is passed by the Senate. 
asked the Minister for 
Air, upon notice: 
Was an agreement made between the Commonwealth Government and the Western Australian Government jointly to provide a water supply for the Royal Australian Air Force base at Pearce and the town of Pearce. 
Is it a fact that a water supply has been provided for the RAAF base and not for the town of Pearce; if so, why was the agreement not carried out, and which of the parties to the agreement failed to carry out the terms of the agreement 
Does either the Commonwealth Government or the Western Australian Government intend to provide the town of Pearce with a water supply. 
1 do not want to delay the Senate for very long. J was rather interested to hear  Senator Byrne  refer to the growth of the Japanese economy. [ remind him that Japan has few raw resources, particularly in the field of steel making. It imports all its raw resources. Most of ils coal and iron ore is imported from Australia. At the same time a monopoly creation, Broken Hill Pty Company Ltd, exists in Australia but we are an importer of steel. Australia is an importer of steel because BHP constantly under-estimates the growth of the Australian market so that it will be able to sell all its products. If we do not want to see this sort of thing growing up in this country then it is time there was a change of government so that we had one which would see thai the resources of Australia were used for the benefit of Australians. Australia is extremely rich in mineral resources. These mineral resources are being exploited not by Australians but by overseas companies, not for the benefit of Australia but lo benefit themselves and their shareholders. 1 do not want to go into all that  Senator Keeffe, Senator Milliner  and  Senator Georges  said about shareholdings today. I think it is a public disgrace that what they have mentioned should have happened. 1  leave it at that. I commend the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  for advising his Ministers not to have anything to do with such a shady deal. 
These resources are of little value unless they are exploited economically. When I use the term 'economically' I do not talk about profits to companies, and shareholders; I talk about the development being economic lo the State, to the Commonwealth and to the exploiter. I think the State and the Commonwealth are the most important of the 3, because they are the 2 bodies which represent the people of Australia. This powerhouse is to be built to allow the exploitation of the raw resources which are found at Weipa. This project is highly commended by Queensland members of the Australian Country Party and the Australian Democratic Labor Party in the Senate.  Senator Byrne  spoke about the interest rate that will be charged on the advance of $80m. He said that he did not want to go into the terms of the agreement. In my opinion, the terms of the agreement are most important and should be inquired into. Despite the fact that the agreement was signed previously, it provides that it does not come into force until the Bill is passed by this Parliament. This Parliament has a responsibility to see that such agreements are made in the interests of the Australian people. I disagree with  Senator Byrne  when he said that terms of the agreement should not be inquired into. I think that they should be inquired into. 
When we talk about an interest rate on a loan of $80m repayable over 30 years we are talking about the fundamentals and not just the by-product of CommonwealthState financial relationships. The Commonwealth Government does nothing to earn its money other than to employ a few people in the Taxation Branch and in the Department of Customs and Excise. The Bill states specifically that the money will come out of Consolidated Revenue.. The Commonwealth has not had to borrow the money from overseas and therefore does not have to charge an interest rate plus a service charge, lt is money that the Commonwealth Government has obtained for only a collection fee. My opinion is that when money is lent to the States out of Consolidated Revenue it should not attract an interest rate which is greater than the service charge. Honourable senators have spoken about the great developmental project in Queensland. 1 want to see Queensland progress. I am a centralist. I believe in the Commonwealth of Australia, not in any particular part of it. 1 think Queensland is as important as any other part of Australia. 1 want to see it advance. 
A lot of the money that was expended on the Snowy Mountains scheme was borrowed money. 
A lot of it came out of Consolidated Revenue. 1 will tell the honourable senator a little story about money in a few moments if he will give me an opportunity. The Bill stales specifically that mC money will come out of Consolidated Revenue. Yet we find that the loan attracts an interest rate, of 6.4%. In my opinion, it is usury for the Commonwealth to do this. We talk about a great developmental project in Queensland and how Queensland must be developed. The Commonwealth Government, by charging an interest rate on the amount that it advances to the Slates to carry out the developmental works, makes a profit out of every developmental .project that is initiated in this country. The Commonwealth Government will get out of the developmental works- 
I think the honourable senator is trying lo anticipate me. He should have made a speech. The Commonwealth Government will receive income tax and company tax. As I said before, the project must be economically satisfactory to the State. The States have to get some profit out of these projects. I do not sec the profits going 10 the State. Large profits will flow to the Commonwealth, but very little will flow to the States. There will be employment and money earned by the State railways to cart goods backwards and forwards. The Australian National Line will freight cargo there by sea. The Commonwealth will make profits out of that, but not the State. Yet honourable senators have said what a great national project this is and will be. I think it is crazy for people to talk in that way. 
The honourable senator would not know what this is all about. He might know something about shares, but that is all he would know. I think it would bc advisable ' for him lo keep out of the debate. I will give the Senate an illustration of what these interest rates mean. Only a few years ago, at the behest of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the Commonwealth Government decided that a standard gauge railway from Kalgoorlie to Kwinana should bc constructed, lt did not follow the general route that the. ordinary railway from Kalgoorlie to Perth followed because BHP wanted to take if through Koolyanobbing to Kwinana so that the iron ore from Koolyanobbing could be taken to the Kwinana works. Not all the railway that was to be constructed was to be constructed under the standard gauge agreement between the States and the Commonwealth under which the Commonwealth provides 70% and the State provides 30%). That part of it that was deemed to a standardisation project attracted that division of money between the States and the Commonwealth. The State had to pay for that which was regarded as capital works. I have not found out yet what the whole project cost, but the amount to be advanced originally for the project was £42m, part of which was to bc repaid over a period of 20 years and part of which was to be repaid over a period of 50 years. All of the loan attracted the long term bond interest rate. I took out some figures on this and examined them. Out of the £42m that the project was (o cost - bearing in mind that the Commonwealth was paying for 70% of the standard gauge and thai the State was paying for only 30% - the State was paying £38m and the Commonwealth was paying £4m. This is the vicious aspect of charging interest on money advanced to the Slates. 
The matter goes a little further than that. At this point of time the Queensland project, not allowing for any increases in cost is estimated to cost $155m. Not only docs the Commonwealth, after the construction is finished and the project is producing, start to -claim repayments on the $80m that it advanced plus the interest rate at 6.4% but it also ties up the balance of $75ra of Queensland's own money. Money that the Queensland Government should have free to invest in schools, hospitals, railways, roads or any other project that it wants to develop is tied up. These conditional grants that the Commonwealth makes to the States control the finances of the States. Honourable senators can not find anything more centralised than that. That is the policy of this Government. lt was not initiated by  Mr Gorton. 
It was initiated long, before he was in office. This is the central factor of control from Canberra. The Commonwealth is able to control the finances of the States by conditional grants, by charging interest on money advanced to the States and by making profits out of developmental projects. 1 could go on for weeks giving illustrations, but it is fundamental that conditional grants and interest on loans raised from Consolidated Revenue are the very centre of the bad financial relationships that exist between the Commonwealth and the States. It is remarkable that when we examine the proposition we find that the Commonwealth's indebtedness is decreasing constantly while the States' indebtedness is increasing constantly - to the extent that the Prime Minister has now told the States that in the next financial agreement that he makes with them some time this month, if ever Parliament rises - and I do not know when it will- 
 I am doing my best to keep the Senate here. I hope to do a little more towards keeping it here. I am not afraid of the cold. The Prime Minister has already informed the Premiers that he is prepared to take over part of their debts in an attempt to relieve them of some of these problems. Honourable senators represent the States. Some of them call themselves State Rightists, but they are prepared to support a policy that embraces all the features that inhibit the growth of the States and constantly stimulate the trend to Commonwealth centralisation. 
 I am, yes. 
I indicate at the outset that the Australian Labor Party does not oppose the Bill. The purpose of the Bill is to provide 
Australia with first and second line reserves of about 52,000m which will put us in a fairly secure position with our balance of payments, lt will also give us strength in our position in the international monetary market. We need that because of the fluctuations of our economy. There is no doubt that in the past strains have been placed on the balance of payments of many countries, particularly the United States of America. Only a few years ago an equalisation lax was introduced in the United States in an endeavour to conserve internal funds by preventing outgoings. American nationals who had investments overseas were requested to repatriate as much of their funds as was possible in order to give io that giant of private enterprise more security and strength within ils own economy. 
When the Wilson Government came io power in Great Britain the coffers were almost empty and very severe economic restrictions had to be imposed to try to get the country into a favourable balance of trade position. Although it has taken a long time, Great Britain now is in that, position. In recent years the position in France became so desperate that she was compelled to devalue her currency in order to put her balance of payments in better order. In 1960-61 Australia was in a desperate position wilh her balance of payments. We all remember the credit squeeze which was imposed in this country. We had lo fall back on our second line of reserves to preserve our balance of payments. This second line of defence in our balance of payments means a great deal to us because wc cannot always rely on having sufficient inflow of overseas capital to balance our payments. Invariably we are in deficit on current accoun.it and we rely on overseas investment to straighten the position. 
The International Monetary Fund has been able lo stabilise the currencies of various countries which have run into balance of payments difficulties, but the Fund itself is running short of international liquidity and a move has been made io remedy the situation. This Bill is part of the scheme to do that. The fact thai we can fall back  on  the Fund when we run into balance of payments difficulties is of particular importance to Australia because our balance of payments fluctuates as a result of our great reliance on our rural industries. At present they are in a very depressed condition on world markets, unfortunately for those engaged in them. We hope that Australia will be able to come out of the position although we would not like to do that at the expense of other countries which might be suffering drought conditions or some such difficulty. 
This Fund may help under-developed countries to purchase more of our goods, therefore there will be greater sales of our rural products. I am not one who believes that because we have a mining boom at present and are able to export large amounts of minerals we can discard our rural industries. We should not be replacing one export with another export; we should be building up both exports so that we would not have to rely so much upon the importation of funds from overseas, something of which I have been critical at other times. Because of the depressed condition of our rural industries and because we rely very heavily on them, we could require assistance from the Fund at very short notice. Unless we could obtain that assistance we would be in serious difficulties while our export earnings were depressed and while there was a fall off in overseas investment, which could happen at any time. Therefore we require this second line of defence to give security to our economy, to our standard of living and to our women and children so that the good life that we enjoy may continue. We do not oppose the Bill. 
 We have not copies. 
 There was no copy on my table this morning. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Request No.  6. 
In clause 41, after paragraph (b), insert the following paragraph: (ba) by omitting from paragraph (e) of subsection (2) all words after "Social Services Act 1947-1969"; and'. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Shipping and Transport,  upon  notice: 
Is it a fact that the marine inquiry into the sinking of the 'Sedco Helen' has been adjourned sine die. 
Was this inquiry conducted in camera? If so, why. 
When is the inquiry likely to be resumed. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has seen a heading in this morning's Melbourne Sun* which states: 
Senate is a farce, scrap it: Bolle. 
If he has seen the report, has he taken notice of this statement by  Sir Henry  Bolte with respect to Senate select committees: 
They come out with profound recommendations that have been fed to them by State authorities. They know only whatwe tellthem. 
Does the Minister believe that witnesses from the State of Victoria who come before Senate select committees to give evidence on oath are instructed by the Victorian Government not to disclose the whole truth? 
I point out to the Committee that even though this may be an appeal .from a medical tribunal and as the Government thinks it is not appropriate to allow a legal appeal from a medical tribunal, under section  34(1.)  provision is made for the disallowance of the claim in whole or in part. It may be that the disallowance will be for the whole. It may be that the doctor may recognise that he has exceeded in some part by giving too many services and part of his claim may be disallowable but he may not agree that the whole of his claim should be disallowed. Surely this gets a little further away from a medical determination. There should be some body to which the medical practitioner can go to obtain redress from what might be termed an excessive disallowance of his claim. The Australian Labor Party seeks to give the medical practitioner an opportunity to obtain justice in these circumstances. I do not think we should let these things go through without giving the medical practitioner an opportunity to obtain justice. We should all take the opportunity to obtain ' justice in our society. If we are going to deny justice to the medical profession in circumstances which may be oppressive, then we are not carrying out the duties which we should carry out in this place; that is, the protection of the citizen's rights. 
Question put: 
That the Committee does not insist on amendment No. 8 to which the House of Representatives has disagreed. 
I enter into this debate only because I believe that some legislation is deliberately delayed. I invite the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  to the fate of the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill. The Bill was introduced into the House of Representatives in March and into the Senate on 10th June but it has not yet been dealt with here. The 
Opposition wishes to move some amendments to the Bill. However, it is unlikely that these amendments will be accepted as the members of the other place will have gone home by the time the Senate gets around to considering the Bill I can visualise what will happen if we are successful and the amendments that we propose are carried. The legislation will be held over until August. Yet the rural industries are relying on this Parliament so that they may know what to do. The States are waiting to act in respect of the imposition of quotas. The wool growers are anxious to know whether they will be able to buy wheat at a lower rate for sheep feed. That is why I object to this practice. I am not speaking on the same matter as  Senator Murphy  has spoken, although I agree that 13 measures should not have come into the Senate today. 1 am speaking of other matters. 
The Queensland Grant (Bundaberg Irrigation Works) Bill that was in the other House might well be held over. We have amendments to move to that legislation. We wish to propose amendments to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Bill. That has been in the other place for a long time. We will be proposing amendments to the Wool industry Bill that the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  has just introduced. These are all important measures. My quarrel with the Government is that although some of these measures were introduced into the House of Representatives more than 3 months ago they have not yet been dealt with by the Senate. I say that that result has been sought deliberately by Ministers and public servants who do not want inquiries made into their legislation. 
It is all very well for the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  to say that we are not inhibited. We are inhibited psychologically once the members leave the other place. I respect the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I know that he does not inhibit us. Nevertheless, once the members of the House of Representatives leave here a psychological effect is felt by honourable senators that we should be out of this place, too. It is true that on one occasion we brought the other House back, but I doubt that the measures we are to consider are of sufficient importance for us to do that again. The result would simply be that the measures would be stood over. The Opposition would then be accused of holding up legislation that affects the community. 
We came here on 3rd March. On Sth May, 8 weeks after the Parliament was opened, we had 9 matters on our business paper, 3 of which were ministerial statements. Is that a proper way to run this place? That is all I want to know. Surely some order can be put into this sort of business. I appreciate what the Leader of the Government in the Senate has said. We must wait for the Bills to come over and inevitably there will be a lag. But there does not have to be the sort of lag which results in 13 measures coming into the Senate at once, as has happened today. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I refer to clause 8 which reads in part: 
After section 27 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: - "27a.  -  (1.) Notwithstanding the last preceding section, the Board may, in a Territory, sell wheat for use in Australia otherwise than in the manufacture of substances for human consumption at such prices as the Board determines, being prices less than the prices that would be applicable under that section, but no such sale shall be made at a price less than the minimum price applicable in accordance with this section. "(2.) The minimum price in respect of a wholesale sale of bulk wheat of fair average quality free on rails at a port of export is the price per bushel  for  such a sale that corresponds with a free on board price equal to the guaranteed price of wheat of the season that was current at the beginning of the year in which the sale is made. "(3.) The minimum price in respect of a sale other than a sale referred to in the last preceding sub-section is a price per bushel ascertained by adding to or deducting from the minimum price per bushel referred to in that sub-section an amount that makes a proper allowance for the quality of the wheat, the conditions of sale and the place of delivery. 
I move: in proposed section 27a  - 
leave out all words after "determines" in sub-section (1.); and 
leave out sub-sections (2.) and (3.). 
There is no obligation upon the Minister to accept a minority report or a majority report. A committee with a membership oE 4 or 6 is to be set up to advise the Minister. The Minister does not have to accept that advice. Anyone can stand out and the Minister could accept the advice of one person. Why is a consultative committee necessary? Why not consult just anyone at all on this matter? 1 think it is quite crazy to have such a provision in the Bill. I support the amendment that the clause should be opposed. I believe that the clause should be deleted and not proceeded with. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the Senate is to amend the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act 1968 in 2 ways. Firstly, it makes provision for quotas. Secondly, it will allow wheat to be sold internally at less than the home consumption price provided that it is not for human consumption. These 2 amendments are of very great importance to wheat producers and wool producers. They merit the earnest consideration of the Senate. These 2 rural industries are the backbone of our export earnings. Their earnings of foreign exchange provide the necessary amounts of money to allow capital imports for secondary industries. 
It is common for members of the Australian Country Party to claim all the credit for the recent prosperity of the rural industries, whereas in fact the advances were made as the result of good seasons following severe droughts. In December 1968 the Treasurer of the day was putting it about that there was an  8%  increase in the gross national product. In fact, it was an 8% increase in the gross national product in a drought year. So, it was not a normal year that was taken for the purposes of comparison. After taking all the credit for nature's bounty, in 1968-69 the Government became alarmed because a record wheat crop of 540 million bushels was delivered. The Government became further alarmed in 1969-70 when it looked as though there would be a further large crop. 
It is no good the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  saying that he warned the industry about these things in March 1969, because without any preparations the Government instituted a system of quotas. I want no-one to be under any illusion as to where quotas originated. They originated right here in this Parliament, lt is no good the Government saying to the outside world that it was the States that imposed the quotas. The fact is that the Government provided sufficient money for the first advance payment of SI. 10 a bushel on a total wheat crop of 357 million bushels, and the States had to regulate the supplies within that national quota. So, the blame for quotas falls fairly in the laps of members of the Commonwealth Government and in particular in the laps of members of the Country Party. 
One of the most damaging aspects of the quota system was that the individual quotas were not made known until almost the end of the growing season. They were part of the reason for the early election last year. The Government did not want the quotas issued before the election took place. There is no question that, had the quotas come out the day before the election instead of being sent out on the day of the election and being received by the farmers on the Monday following the election, the Australian Labor Party would have won 2 more seats in Western Australia and the Coutry Party would have been eliminated in that State. But that is the way things were managed. The quotas were held back in order that the farmers would not know what their fate was until after the election. 
I turn lo the 1969-70 crop. Prospects were for a crop of 450 million bushels. Again, the Government was thrown into panic. Despite the fact that quotas were fixed, they were not fixed in time. The growers planted the same amount of acreage as they had planted in other years. The Government saw facing it a crop of some 450 million bushels. It had nowhere to store it. This again threw the Government into panic. So much of this wheat was over-quota wheat that it was doubtful whether the Australian Wheat Board would take delivery of it. In this instance, it would be necessary for the farmers themselves to provide their own storage facilities. The Government did make some moves to create more storage. The programme established by the Government was for a storage of an extra 170 million bushels. But. of course, fortune favours the brave. Droughts occurred in both Western Australia and Queensland and, in New South Wales, severe frosts were experienced just at flowering time. These factors let the Government off the hook considerably even though they were to the detriment of the growers. 
The difficulty with the quota system as instituted by the various governments, with perhaps the exception of the Government of New South Wales, is that the quotas established are across the board quotas. That is to say, the quotas apply equally to the small grower and the large grower. They are not graduated quotas so that the burden falls most heavily on those who are producing wheat as a business and not as a livelihood. The small grower - the traditional wheat grower - was placed in a position where he did not have a cut in his business production but he did not have a cut in his standard of living. In most cases, he suffered a 20% cut in his quota. This meant, for the small farmer, a 20% cut in his standard of living. 
The wheat growers became desperate in this situation. They became so desperate that, for the first time that I can remember - or for the first time that I can remember being recorded - farmers were on the march. In Victoria 10,000 farmers marched through the streets of Melbourne. In Western Australia, approximately 3,500 farmers marched through the streets of Perth. In Perth, the march was organised by the wife of a farmer. The march was organised for farmers' wives despite the fact that many farmers joined in it. 
We will talk about that later senator. The reason why this march was organised by the wife of a farmer was that insufficient income was available on farms and the husbands of the wives who took part in that march were out working in order to supplement the farm income. They were unable to knock off and take part in this organised demonstration to expose their position to the people of Australia. 
Sena:or CANT - I refer to the march in Perth, the march organised by  Mrs Row. 
If  Senator Prowse  would wake up now and again instead of being asleep all the time he would know what is going on in the Senate. That was the position with respect to the farmers. Still the Government did nothing to relieve their position. 
The quotas for the 1969-70 season are again across the board quotas. Because this represents a further reduction in the total quota, the small farmer will be hit hardest again. Garatti will still have his quota of a quarter of a million bushels but the small farmer will have his quota cut down again. How can the grower who is producing only a living from his farm continue to live on that farm when his rate of production is being reduced continually? The only answer is for that farmer to leave his farm. Is that what the Government wants? There is complete silence from the Government side. The Government neither admits nor denies that this is what it wants. 
Again, 1 ask: ls the Government wedded to the policy of 'get big or get out'? Is that the policy of the Government? I heard it said this morning during the discussion of legislation related to a dairying equalisation scheme that that scheme was designed to buy out the uneconomic small grower and that this should be done in all other rural industries. So, here we go: The Government does believe in the policy of get big or get out'. These remarks apply particularly to members of the Country Party. The Country Party is the highest paid lobbying body in Australia. It is paid by Australian taxpayers to lobby on behalf of rural industries. What are members of the Country Party doing for rural industries? They have forgotten about rural industries now that those industries are in difficulties. 
The results of the recent Victorian election expose the disaffection that exists between the Country Party and rural voters. More especially is this so when we consider that country electorates are loaded in favour of the Country Party vote. Members of the Country Party have forgotten all about country people. But they are still being paid for lobbying. I suppose they are lobbying now on behalf of mineral industries to see whether there is any dough amongst them. This is what the policy of the Government means - get big or get out. That is the policy which is fostered by the Government. No room will exist in the wheat industry for the small grower. In the past, the small grower has been the backbone of the industry. Now he is not wanted. Why has the Country Party walked out on those who have supported it over these many years? 
In Western Australia farmers are faced with other problems. For the past 12 years, Western Australia has been governed by a Liberal Party and Country Party coalition. For the past 10 years, that Government has boasted of a policy of bringing 1 million acres of land into production each year. What is to happen to the farmers who are on this new land and who are working on these quotas? I refer to the farmer who has sunk some $20,000 of his own money and who has accumulated debts to stock firms of another $20,000. Now he faces a cut in quota.  His  new quota will not allow him to expand his farm so that he will be able to pay his debts. He will walk off his farm. He will not walk off that farm, as he walked onto it, with $20,000 in the bank. He will walk off with a loss of $20,000 and a debt of $20,000 around his neck. That is the result of the policy that is subscribed to by the Liberal Party and Country Party coalition in Western Australia. So, not only do members of the Country Party walk out on farmers in the Commonwealth Parliament but also they walk out on farmers in the State parliaments. 
It is well known to anyone who visits farmers on new land holdings that they are in desperate straits and that they are walking off their farms every day. Even if they enjoy a good season, they have no hope of recovery because the across the board quotas which have been instituted will not allow them to produce sufficient to recover their losses. These are the farms in marginal areas. Western Australia is a wonderful State which seldom has bad seasons. Last year was the first bad season for about 25 years. Nevertheless these farmers are in marginal areas and if there is any difficulty with the seasons they are the first to suffer, if one puts together drought conditions, quota restrictions and the cost price squeeze the picture reveals almost an impossible position for the small grower. If restrictions are necessary  -  I believe they are in view of the present state of the industry which the Government has allowed to develop- 
1 am not supporting quotas at all. I believe that there must be restrictions on production because the Government has allowed the big people to move in - the big people who have moved from stock to wheat in order to get a guaranteed price. These big people are given the same cut in quota as the small grower receives. Because the big man has been allowed to develop, the small man has had to have his quota cut. As I have said here before, there should be no quotas on production of 10,000 bushels or less. Let the big grower who produces more than 10,000 bushels carry the burden. The Government does not think about the small grower. All it thinks about is the big grower and of course the superphosphate firms. These are the people that the Government wants to protect. It is essential to have a quota system because the Government has allowed the present situation to develop but surely the quotas could be rationalised so that the burdens fall least heavily on those least able to bear them. Statistics of wheat production show that there was a big expansion of the industry following the 1965-67 drought in New South Wales. In that period the pastoralists who had lost their sheep turned to a cash crop. They will remain in the wheat industry because of the high amount of capital they expended in the purchase of machinery for the production of wheat. They will remain in the wheat industry so long as the price of wool is as low as it is at the present time. 
The Government proposes to allow the selling of wheat internally at $1.45 per bushel. At the Committee stage I will move an amendment along different lines. Over quota wheat presents 2 problems. First, it takes up storage space which is expensive and in short supply. If the wheat is to be kept in storage for any length of time the costs increase. The object should be to clear this wheat as soon as possible but because of the policy of this Government the wheat cannot be sold in Australia at less than $1.71 a bushel, although 1 understand that the Wheat Board has allowed certain sales. In defiance of the Act the Board has permitted sales to be made at $1.45 per bushel and the Government allows this to go on. This legislation will have no retrospective effect. What does the Government do? It passes legislation and then allows the Wheat Board to breach the law. There should not be a restriction on the disposal of over quota wheat. At least it should earn something for its producers. 
The Board is the body best able to judge whether the storage space should be cleared and whether the price offered for the wheat is economic in the circumstances. We have lo look at all the circumstances and not only those of the wheat industry. The silos are full of wheat, yet the paddocks surrounding them are littered with dying sheep and cattle. The farmers do not have the money to buy the wheat for their stock. We have had the spectacle in Western Australia of bins full of wheat being broken into by farmers who could not afford to pay the price set by the Wheat Board and by this Government under its legislation. Their stock is starving. 
No I would not. I will move an amendment that will reduce the price. Farmers cannot be blamed . for taking this sort of action. Are they to stand by and see their life's work fall apart and their stock dying when there are bins full of wheat in the surrounding paddocks? Any man with red blood in him would be trying to get the wheat out of the bins the best way he could, lo making a judgment on the price of over quota wheat the Board has to consider whether it should fix a price that will enable the grower to clear his storages and just to cover his costs for the year, or whether it should allow stock to starve. Ail factors should be taken into consideration. The value of the sheep that will starve and the value of the loss of wool production should be considered. Whether wool is worth producing at this stage is another matter but the Board should assess its value. This requires the judgment of experienced men. The Board consists of experienced rural producers and it is the body best able to make a judgment. 
Another matter 1 wish to refer to is the impossible position of the International Grains Arrangement. The Arrangement purports to create a world stabilisation scheme for wheat. But how can it produce such a scheme when some of the biggest growers in the world are not a party to it? How can the scheme be successful when the price agreed on under the Arrangement is too high? This only encourages other countries to under sell the arranged price. And this has happened. The parties to the Arrangement were forced to cut the arranged price in order to compete with outside exporters, lt is all very well for the Minister to say that the integrity of the International Grains Arrangement has been retained. But how can it be retained when the United States of America and Canada are selling wheat at 10c a bushel below the arranged price? Australia used every trick it could think of, particularly in regard to freights, so that it could sell wheat at below the arranged price. Although the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  denied that Australia was selling wheat below the agreed price he finally admitted that it was so. The end result was that he had to advise the people of Australia that the Wool Board would cease its activities on the international market in order that Canada and the United States could retain their traditional markets. What I want to know is: What are traditional markets? In the world of free enterprise you find markets where you can get them. In order to satisfy those people that the Government had deceived over our marketing scheme, it agreed to withdraw our activity on the international markets. All of these conditions are reflected back to the farmers and, under the policy adopted by the Government, are reflected overheavily on the small growers. 
I do not want to speak for too long although I could speak for a long time about this Bill. In view of the present circumstances of the sittings of the Senate 1 propose to wind up by moving: 
Al end of motion add - but the Senate is of opinion that the Bill should' provide for a one-price scheme for home consumption and export wheal, being a price which will return to the grower $1.48 f.o.r. per bushel which is equivalent to a guaranteed price of $1.5 li f.o.b. per bushel for exports up to a maximum of 200 million bushels from the crop of any season, to apply from the commencement of the current stabilisation scheme'. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - ls the amendment seconded? 
 I ask a question of the Acting Minister for Immigration. Is it a fact that  Mrs Biggs  is an illegal immigrant? ls it the Government's intention to deport  Mrs Biggs  or to keep her and her innocent children in Australia in the hope that they will remain gaol bait for their father? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Western Australian Government made an application to the Commonwealth Government for financial assistance to establish a LASH shipping service to service the Northwest pons: if so when was it made. 
What stage have the negotiations reached. 
When will the Western Australian Government receive a firm answer as to whether assistance will be granted. 
Yes, April 1969. 
The matter is still under active consideration by the Commonwealth. 
At this stage I arn unable to answer this part of the question except to say that every effort is being made to bring this matter to finality. 
Attention  is drawn to the reply by the Minister for Shipping and Transport lo a question without notice on this matter on 14th May 1970 (Hansard, page 2123). 
The Senate is dealing with the Wool Industry Bill. Wool is one of the most important industries which exists in Australia. The Bill has 3 main principles contained in it. The first principle is to decrease the amount of levy paid by wool growers and increase the amount paid by the Commonwealth towards wool promotion and research. The second is to alter the method of appointment of the  Chairman  and some members of the Australian Wool Board. The third is to allow the Board to borrow money for the purpose of providing or encouraging the provision of wool selling centres. The reduction of the amount of levy on wool producers from  2%  to 1% is esimated in the second reading speech by the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  to be a saving of $1.20 a bale. Put in this context that sounds a substantial saving to the grower. While any saving in this industry which is suffering a cost price squeeze must be welcomed the saving, on examination, seems to me to be approximately one third of one cent a lb. What effect this is going to have overall on the cost price squeeze is debatable. 
With wool selling at prices approximating 1948 and with 1970 costs of production, a far greater saving than this is needed to have any marked effect upon the wool producers. What is required to save this industry is massive savings in costs of production and fair and equitable prices for the products. Perhaps the overriding feature we should be looking at now is fair and equitable prices for the products. In the case of wool, those fair and equitable prices are not being obtained. It may be that the establishment of these wool selling centres, wool villages or wool complexes as they are variously named may have some effect on reducing costs. Personally, I do not think they will. I think we will run into the same problem we are running into with shipping. Consortiums came here and introduced what is known as 'container shipping'. Never at any time were the consortiums prepared to say that container shipping would reduce freight rates. They did say that the introduction of container shipping would stabilise freight rates. If one looks at this morning's Australian' one will see that the shipping freight rates from England to Australia have already been increased by 12±% and the shippers are now asking for a 12±% increase in shipping freight rates from Australia to the United Kingdom. Yet this is within a very short time of the introduction of container shipping which was to stabilise freight rates. 1 believe the same thing will happen with respect to the establishment of these wool selling centres. I say this because the Bill provides that after the construction of these wool selling centres they may be leased to the brokers. 
The brokers have been the evil people in this industry over many years. They are the middle people who produce nothing. In many cases they do not provide a service. But at all times they skim off some of the money which passes between the producer and the consumer. Generally the consumer has to pay the broker's expenses because the producer has no way of passing on his costs, lt is the middle man who has been reaping the cream of the industry. He will continue to remain in this position of being able to exploit any saving which may be made. 
Nothing in the Bill provides that any cost savings which are made as a result of the Board establishing these wool centres will be passed on to the grower. The Australian Labor Party believes that until ways are found to reduce the effect of the middleman and give the grower more effective control or voice in the sale of the products of his industry it will be in a state of depression. Later on 1 hope to give some quotations which I think will convince the Senate that some sort of collusion is going on at the present time. 
I think that what is required to remedy some of the evil effects of the cost price squeeze within the industry is the establishment of a statutory corporation. The statutory corporation should be set up to acquire the Australian wool clip, to appraise it, and market and distribute it on behalf of the grower. A majority grower representation should be on the corporation. It is noted, of course, that while the Bill does not deal with the proposition of a corporation the Minister in his second reading speech does refer to one. He said*. 
The establishment of the Wool Marketing Corporation will relieve the Board of a good deal of its marketing investigation work. 
As I understand it this corporation will be a voluntary corporation. Its main objective will be to have a price averaging scheme. Growers have stated that this sort of corporation will not be satisfactory because it will increase costs rather than decrease them. Nevertheless the Government proposes to support this voluntary corporation and spend the taxpayers' money in support of it. If the brokers are allowed to operate wool selling centres all the evil features of the system will continue. We also require the establishment of a reconstruction scheme to assist in the solution of problems of production and to streamline selling methods. I think these matters are of particular importance. We are aware of the collusive buying and the buying pies that operate. It cannot be denied that these buying pies do exist, despite the fact that the Minister for Primary Industry went to Japan and asked the Japanese whether they were practising a policy of collusive buying, and the Japanese denied it. I would not expect them to do anything else. We know the methods that are used by the Japanese when they come to Australia to purchase our raw products. They are tough business people. They want the products at the cheapest possible price. Any businessman does. To go to Japan and ask the Japanese whether they are indulging in collusive buying is like appealing from Caesar to Caesar. 
The Cook report in New South Wales revealed the existence of buying pies in Australia. We know that the number of buyers attending the wool sales today is about half the number of 3 or 4 years ago. We are aware that there are agreements between various buyers not to oppose one another for certain lines or lots that are on the floor. We know that in many cases these lines after having been purchased are split between various buyers. In this way, of course, the prices of the goods that are to be sold are being depressed. We believe that these evil features must be eliminated. We believe that a statutory authority - I refer to a statutory authority, not a voluntary corporation to which the Minister refers - would go a long way towards curing many of these evils. We envisage a statutory authority similar to the Australian Wheat Board to which all wool would be delivered. From then on the statutory authority would be in charge of the presentation and the marketing of the clip. 
16320/70-^S- [I02J 
If necessary we would do away with the brokers. We do not go so far as to say at this stage that we would do away with brokers, but if it became necessary in order to ensure economic prices or realistic world prices for the products of the woolgrowers then we would do away with the brokers. But at this point of time we base our proposition on the system that operates. However, we do say that there should be 1 selling authority. There should be 1 authority to acquire the whole of the Australian wool clip, put it in a condition for it to be marketed, and then market it. If the channels that are presently used for the disposal of the wool clip proved satisfactory within the scheme then we would continue with them. But if they did not prove satisfactory we would find alternative ways of disposing of the wool clip. 
1 noticed that some little time ago, when the industry itself adopted a policy of a selling authority or a corporation, the Japanese made a statement that there should not be collusive selling, that there must be the greatest freedom in the marketing of the Austraiian wool clip. The countries that make up the European Economic Community said only a few days ago that there must be the greatest flexibility in the selling of the Australian wool clip. At this point of time I do not disagree with that. But I say to both those communities - the Japanese community and the European Economic Community - that if there is to be the greatest flexibility in the selling of the Australian products there must be the greatest flexibility in the buying of them. There is not to be collusive buying. There are not to be collusive pies buying wool. There should be open and fair competition on the wool selling floor. It is not for them to tell us that we shall have the greatest flexibility in selling our clip while they put restrictions on the methods of buying it. 
I do not believe that the corporation to which the Minister refers will have the effect of assisting the wool producer in any way whatsoever. Its main feature is what is known as the price averaging plan. This of course will be in the hands of the brokers. What sort of justice does the Government think can be achieved by setting these things up within the hands of the brokers? There is not time in this debate to go into al) these things fully, because 1 do not want to delay the Senate. From some of the documentation that I have been able to read 1 have found that the finance for the price averaging plan is to be arranged through the Australian Bankers* Association. I think this is particularly important. This Association has stated that it will deal only with the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers. So that already this corporation is tied up with the wool selling brokers. There is no freedom for the producer to have a say in the way that his products should be marketed or presented on the appraisement floor. But this illustrates once again that the growers are to he ignored in favour of the brokers, f want to know: What hope is there for the growers in the circumstances I have referred to? There are many other evil features in this proposal that I do not have time to go into. 
lt is the proposal of the Australian Labor Party that when it comes to office after the next election  -  I hope the next election is nol very far around the corner - it will engage the necessary expertise to draw up this plan and do this job. We have done it twice before. We did it in the first World War and we did it in the Second World War. We are not one bit inhibited by anyone saying that we cannot do it again. We believe that we can. We have proven on 2 occasions that we can do it, and I see nothing that would inhibit us from doing it once again. 
 I agree that there are different constitutional provisions, and there may be some different problems. But right from the day a child goes to school problems are set him by teachers only so that he can solve them. We find problems in setting up any plan. We will find ways and means of solving these problems. First of all there must be a will to do it, and in this instance there is not. We say we must find ways and means of doing it, but the grower must be given an opportunity to take part in the increase in efficiency in the handling and marketing of his products. He must be given a greater voice in the decision on how his products will be sold. He must also be given a greater voice in determining the manner in which his products are presented for sale, lt is interesting to note that some of the buyers agree that the Australian wool clip should be bringing greater prices. An article which appeared in the Adelaide 'Chronicle' on 5th June quoted what was said by a buyer from South Australia whom 1 am sure honourable senators will know. The article is headed: "Wool prices "could rise" ', and it states: 
Growers could expect wool prices to rise by up lu 12c a pound if a minimum price plan was adopted in Australia al the start of the 1970-71 selling season, a leading wool buyer said this week. 
The managing director of  i.  W.  McGreger  and Co.,  Mr R.  P. McGreger, said that this increase would be accepted by wool users throughout the world . . 
Textile industry leaders in most countries agree that wool prices could be up to  11%  higher without affecting demand. The present price is unnecessarily low and unless a minimum price is brought in immediately, growers can almost certainly expect lower prices again next season.  1 do not want to go into this matter because time is running out. This is the voice of a grower and I am sure you,  Mr Deputy President (Senator Laucke),  will agree that he is a reputable citizen. I know he has pastoral interests, so whilst he is a wool buyer he is also a producer in another aspect. There may be a small conflict of interest. Nevertheless he is a reputable buyer and a reputable citizen of Australia, and this is the opinion he has expressed. He is not a man without experience in the industry. 
The proposal for a different method of appointment of the  chairman  and some members of the Board seems to be an improvement. 1 hope that it  will  not develop into the appointment of persons who will carry out only the policy advocated by the Minister. If appointments  fall  into this line the Board may be less efficient than we hope it will. be. 1 would like the Minister to answer this, because in his second reading speech he said that the Board has under its control some 280 wool stores. In his second reading speech as recorded at page 2434 of Hansard of 21st May 1970 he says: 
The Wool Board has under its control some 2S0 wool stores which are a legacy . . . 
I will not quote further, but I would like the Minister to tell me where these stores are, what their condition is at this time and what their value is, because this is the equity that the Board will use, plus whatever other borrowings it can make, to establish these wool complexes. There is 1 complex in Geraldton which, as the Minister knows, is never used. There was never a bale of wool put into it. What its position is today I do not know, but some years ago it was given to Geraldton Building Co. Pty Ltd and it has cement and that sort of thing in it. Geraldton Building Co. Pty Ltd does all its prefabrication of buildings in it. The store is actually a factory at this time. Is it still under lease? Was it ever under lease? Has it been disposed of? What is its condition? What is the value of assets that the Wool Board has available to it to establish these wool selling complexes? I would like the Minister, if he could, to give me some idea of the estimates, if any estimates have been made, of what it will cost to establish these wool selling complexes and where these complexes will be situated. 
I move the following amendment standing in the name of  Senator O'Byrne: 
After clause 5, insert the following new clause: 5a. Section 18 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting the words 'and allowances as the Governor-General determines and inserting in their stead the wordsas the Parliament provides but until the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, that remuneration shall be as determined by the Governor-General'; and 
by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: (2.) Members and deputies of members shall be paid such allowances as are prescribed.'. 
I do not wish to weary the Senate by engaging in a lengthy discourse on the proposed amendment. The principle involved has been argued at length in relation to several Bills that have been before the Senate in the past few weeks. Those arguments apply equally to this measure. It will be noted that the proposed amendment provides that Parliament shall fix the salaries. It should be remembered that the members whose payment is the subject ofthe proposed amendment will be handling large sums of money on behalf of the woo! growers. The wool growers are the people who finally will have to pay the moneys that are raised on the basis of the assets of the Board or on the basis of any borrowings that the Board may make. 
The Bill provides for the expenditure during the next 3 years of $81m, or$27m a year, on promotion and research. It is obvious that the members of the Board will occupy responsible positions. 1 know that the Government will endeavour to select the most responsible men available for the' job, but because of the heavy responsibilities they will bear the Opposition says that their remuneration should be determined by this Parliament. That is provided for in paragraph (a) of the proposed amendment. 
Paragraph (b) of the proposed amendment relates to allowances. The members of the Board will have to travel, not only in Australia but also overseas, in orderto carry out their proper functions and to assist the industry as much as possible in its problems. We hope to solve some of those problems. We believe it is reasonable to expect the allowances to be fixed by regulation and not by the Parliament. It is our view that the remuneration should be fixed by Parliament and the allowances should be as prescribed. The term'as prescribed' means by regulation. Because of the pressure of time I do not wish to speak any longer on this matter. 
asked the Minister rep resenting the Minister for National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Has Esso contracted to sell 500,000 tons of liquid petroleum gas overseas; if so, at what price is the liquid petroleum gas being sold. 
If the Government does not know the price which the liquid petroleum gas will be sold overseas will the Government issue an export licence for this liquid petroleum gas without knowledge of the price. 
 Senator Maunsell,  who has just spoken, said that the Australian Labor Party had no plan for the drought. I do not propose to dwell on the drought very much.  His  Party and the party with which it is joined in government voted against an Australian Labor Party amendment which would have allowed wheat to be sold out of silos at prices sufficiently economic for wool growers to be able to feed their sheep. The Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party voted against that amendment as also did the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 1 am rather surprised that  Senator Young  should attack the workers' wages and hours.  Senator McClelland  said earlier that primary producers and the industrial workers of Australia are married, each of them dependent on the other for their prosperity. Because of the way the Government runs the economy of this country, prices are allowed to escalate at the whim of anyone who wants to put goods on the shelf and workers will have to have higher wages. They are entitled to work shorter hours for the arduous task they do. 

 Senator Young mentioned that last year the Government provided assistance of about §140m to the rural industries and that in the Budget introduced last night it is proposed to increase that assistance to $2 15m. I appreciate that subsidies have been paid and all sorts of financial assistance have been made available for rural industries out of the public purse over the years. Nevertheless, those methods have helped the people in the rural industries to get only deeper into the mire. They have not touched upon their basic problems. Handing out a few quid to block up a hole as it appears does not solve any of the problems of primary industries. I am not opposed to assistance to woolgrowers who are in difficulty.  Sir William  Gunn has referred to assistance for about 40,000 woolgrowers with an annual income of less than $2,000 and I agree that they need assistance. But that is not the answer to the problems of the wool industry. Anyone who considers handing out moneys from the public purse to support industries that require a basic examination and real solutions to their problems is just kidding himself and the Australian people. Worst of all, he is kidding the people on the land. 
As the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  pointed out, the primary industries that are in difficult circumstances require urgent action to be taken now. But where is the long term policy that should be adopted by the Government to help at least to cure some of the ills of the rural industries? I have here a copy of today's edition of the 'West Australian' and 1 will quote from it, particularly for the benefit of  Senator Drake-Brockman.  Under the headline Many farms now worse off than in drought', the article states: 
Some parts of Western Australia's agricultural areas are reported to be in a worse position now than they were during last year's widespread drought. Pastures are dying, crops are willing and some farmers face the coming summer with empty dams. 
Western Australia has a coalition Government of the same political complexion as that in the Federal Parliament. What has happened in Western Australia? After examining where the difficulties lie in the rural industries, the Western Australian Agriculture Department is planning an investigation into the position of farmers in the affected areas.  Senator Drake-Brockman  quoted what  Mr Hawke  had had to say and led the people of Australia who were listening to him - his speech was broadcast - to believe that  Mr Hawke  is the leader of the Labor Party.  Mr Hawke  is the leader of the industrial section of the Labor Party. He is the man who has to see that the workers get justice in their wages and conditions. The Minister went further and quoted what  Mr Whitlam  had said in 1965. It is a pretty weak case that must be supported by going back that far. 
I want to draw to the attention of  Senator Drake-Brockman  what was said some years earlier. In 1962  Senator Drake-Brockman  was a senator but he did not enter into the debate on the Wool Tax Bill which took place in that year.  Senator O'Byrne  said in that debate: 
The wool classing profession, despite its importance, has not been developed as it should have been, because of the circumstances in which the classing takes place . . . The influences in the haphazard method of selling our wool, which have been referred to without any recommendations being made, are of very great importance. 
I had this to say: 
In my opinion, organised marketing is a much more urgent matter at this stage because we are able to sell all the wool that we produce . . . The Australian Wool Bureau could consider with advantage the method of handling wool, and in particular, the method of classing wool. All honourable senators know that activities in the shearing sheds today are on a hit and miss basis. Different classers have different methods even though they may have come from the same school ... We are perhaps the only great trading nation in the world which is bound in such a way, and which has to accept the dictates of the shipping lines in relation to freight rates. As I have said, we pay freight on the 40% of matter which is exported with our wool. We should be developing a system of exporting only clean wool, which has many advantages over the existing system. Apart from the freight aspect, one such advantage is that if the wool is scoured, a more uniform grade of wool will go on the selling floor. . . There is no question that the cost of this classing, or rather reclassing will fall upon the grower. There will be another middleman who will make profit out of the industry. . . . What we should be doing is endeavouring by all means available to us to increase by means other than promotion the return to the grower. 

 Senator Kennelly said: 
Let us hope that within the 12 months in which this Bill will operate, the Country Party will take the lead for the people in the wool industry, and will have a little bit of courage. 
Those statements were made in this Parliament 9 years ago and illustrate the concern that the Australian Labor Party had for the wool industry then. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has already admitted in another place that he knew of the difficulties that were arising for the rural industries 5 years ago. What has the Country Party done? Where is its long term plan? It does not have one and does not know how to get one. All that members of the Country Party can think of is to grab some more of Consolidated Revenue. They are members of the highest paid lobbying group in Australia and they are paid by the Australian taxpayer. If that provides consolation to the rural industries or to the Country Party, they should be  3shamed  of it. Money can be taken under false pretences, and that is what members of the Country Party have been doing. They have been taking money out of Consolidated Revenue as a lobbying group. That money has been taken under false pretences because the rural industries have not really been assisted in any way by the Country Party. 
The Commonwealth Government has made a deal with the Esso-BHP group for Bass Strait oil at $2.06 a barrel. That oil costs about 50c a barrel to produce. This deal helps to increase the cost of production in industry. In Western Australia BHP can haul iron ore from the Southern Cross district for $3 a ton, but the cost of hauling wool a similar distance from the selling market to Fremantle is $16 a ton. What is the Country Party doing to try to rationalise all these things? Nothing. What is it doing about trying to rationalise freight rates? We chartered a couple of ships and decided that the Australian National Line would enter the overseas shipping trade. But the first thing it did was to join the shipping consortium; so it is bound by its decisions and has to charge the same freight rates. 
What about the 12±% increase in freight rates from Europe to Australia? Many of the products used by the rural industries are imported. Is anything being done about that? What is the outcome of the proposed increase of 4% on the freight rates for wool on the northern run? What is the Government doing about that? The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  ran around talking about using the restrictive trade practices legislation but no more has been heard about that. So it goes on. What does the Country Party do? It governs by proxy. It dare not move until the primary industries tell it what they want. I invite supporters of the Country Party to go to the wool industry and ask the people in it what they want today. A chance is never taken by the Government to give a lead. It is the duty of the Government to give a lead to the people when they are in distress, but it does not attempt to do so. 
What has been done about handling charges? I questioned  Senator DrakeBrockman  just before the last parliamentary recess, when were we debating a Wool Bill, on wool villages and the assets of the Australian Wool Board. I have since ascertained that all the property that the Australian Wool Board owns is valued at about SI 5m and that it expects that the wool village to be built just outside Sydney will cost S21m. All this money will have to come out of the wool growers' pockets. They will have to pay for it eventually. 
What is the Government doing about marketing? I do not wish to denigrate the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen).  I think he drives a hard bargain. When there is a small crises we send him overseas to try to make arrangements with other countries. But where is the continuity of the promotion of wool? Is the continuity of the promotion of wool the putting of 3 small bales of wool on a boat for  Sir Francis  Chichester to sail it around the world, with Australia paying for the trip as a wool promotion gimmick? ls that the kind of promotion that the Government is making on behalf of the wool growers? If that is what the Country Party, the Australian Wool Board and the Wool Secretariat think is promotion it is time they had another look at the situation because that will not sell any wool. A country needs marketing people operating throughout the world all the time. 
What is the Government doing about low cost money to try to assist these people? I agree with what the Minister for Air said. A lot of these people could not borrow that much if they wanted to, but a lot of people have the ability to borrow if they wanted to. The money is too dear for them to be able to borrow it. What is the Government, doing about making low cost money available to them on a long term basis? Does the Government do anything at all about it? Of course it does nothing about it. What is the Government doing about a reorganisation of the Tariff Board. This is one of the things that the Minister for Trade and Industry has fostered over the years in an endeavour to encourage and direct the urban vote towards the Country Party. The workers live in urban areas. The Minister set out to encourage that vote and direct it towards the Country Party. He was not concerned about the cost price spiral. 
The Tariff Board is supposed to be an independent board of review. Any board that has terms of reference can be directed by those terms of reference. In the majority of cases the terms of reference are set up to get the answer the Minister wants. This is the kind of activity that the Country Party has carried on. The activities of the Minister for Trade and Industry in relation to the Tariff Board have encouraged the cost price spiral. This has been detrimental not only to the rural industries but also to the interests of the workers because every time there is an increase in the costs of goods that means a little more money comes out of the pockets of the men who cannot afford it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Has the Minister issued a permit and/or licence to Esso-BHP to export 1 million tons of liquefied petroleum gas from Bass Strait? Does the permit or licence contain details of sale price per ton of the LPG? If so, will the Minister advise the Senate the price per ton at which this natural resource is being sold overseas? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Has the Committee of Mines Ministers agreed to amendments to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act sections 9 and 101? If so, when was the agreement arrived at? Has the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General agreed on the terms of the aforesaid amendments? If so, when was the agreement arrived at? Is it a fact that the Parliament of South Australia enacted amendments to the aforesaid sections in November 1969? Have any other States enacted or agreed to enact amendments in similar terms to those enacted by South Australia? If so, when is such action likely to be taken? Is the unilateral action taken by the State of South Australia in conformity with the spirit and intent of clause 6 of the agreement relating to exploration and exploitation of petroleum resources? If it is in conformity with the spirit and intent of clause 6 of the agreement, why have 10 months elapsed without any action by the other States and the Commonwealth. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is the Minister aware that according to the August-September timetable issued by Trans-Australia Airlines there is a scheduled flight direct from Melbourne to Perth departing from Melbourne at 8.30 p.m.? The flight number is 516. Is the Minister aware that on Friday 21st August 1970 the said flight did not depart from Melbourne until 11.30 p.m.? Was the delay in the departure caused by the excess of passenger traffic in eastern Australia on that day? Did the excess passenger traffic make it necessary for TAA to use all their available aircraft to move this traffic before the expiration of the curfew hour of 11 p.m. in eastern Australia? Can Western Australian passengers expect that in the future their travel arrangements and times of departure will be subordinated to the requirements of travellers in eastern Australia, governed by the requirement to conform with the Government's restrictions on the movement of aircraft in eastern Australia? Can the Minister give any reason why travellers on flight 516 on 2 1st August were not advised of the delay in the departure time? In order to prevent any further inconvenience of this nature to Western Australian travellers, when it is likely that a curfew will be introduced in Western Australia? 
 Mr Deputy President,  I preface my remarks by thanking you for calling someone from a distant State who may be greatly affected by what this Senate proposes at the present moment. I do not want to enter into the argument as to whether this motion moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson should be in 1 or 2 parts, ft makes no difference to this Senate whether we resolve to sit 4 days in 1 week and 4 days in another week or to leave the days of sitting open. At any time the Senate will decide when it will sit irrespective of  Senator Murphy's  amendment that we sit on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of one week and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of the next week. The Senate will decide whether it will sit on those days. 
As I see it the question is open now because it is specified in the motion that the Senate will decide on the days of sitting. I feel tempted to move the adjournment of this matter which has been brought before the Senate because I think it is ill-considered. When the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  stood up he said he would make time available in the coming week to discuss other matters associated with the sittings of the Senate, such as the hours of sitting and other ancillary matters. Before one can give proper consideration to the problems mentioned by  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Poyser  I believe one must know the whole programme. It has been brought here in a piecemeal way. We are asked to commit ourselves to a cycle of 3 weeks instead of a cycle of 4 weeks without knowing what hours we are going to sit and the time limit on speeches. We do not know whether any privileges will be cut down. I think this is only making a hotchpotch of the system. I speak with a little experience because for the past few years I have had only 1 weekly break from this Parliament and I have had only about 2 Fridays away from this Parliament when I have not been working on a committee. Even during the short recess which has just occurred I had to come to Canberra for 2 weeks to sit on a committee. So the whole question of how long one works and what work committees will do is bound up in the one problem. At this stage I think it would be unwise for the Senate to decide what the activities of the Senate will be in the future. I know it is within the hands of this Senate at any time to change things but I think most of us are conservative by nature and we resist change. It is evident amongst some honourable senators who have spoken that there is a resistance to change. 
I support the 3 weeks cycle but I want to know more about the hours of sitting, the times of sitting, what is going to happen with committees and whether we are going to sit 3 days in each week and have the Fridays and Mondays for committee work. The committee of which I am  a  member proposes to sit over the weekends to try to get rid of the work facing it. The Senate has a proposal before it for 5 Estimates committees and 7 standing committees. By the commencement of the first session of the Parliament in 1971 a report must be presented to the Senate. At the present time 2 reports are coming up. I do not think it would make a great deal of difference if the Leader of the Government in the Senate were to withdraw this motion at this time and come forward with a detailed programme for honourable senators to look at. They would then know exactly what they were confronted with, what privileges they were going to gain, what privileges they were going to lose and what demands were going to be made upon their time. At the present time if honourable senators from Western Australia want to get any work done they have to work their staff mostly during a weekend. If the Senate sits on Thursday nights it is midday Friday before one gets home and one has to leave one's home at 11 o'clock on Monday morning to come back here. Honourable senators are in a very awkward position in trying to get any home work done. This is not so with honourable senators from the States of Victoria and New South Wales. They have things made a little hit easier. I have said it before and I will say it again: This Parliament is built around New South Wales and Victoria with little consideration for the outlying States. I do not even feel like voting upon this proposition without having before me a full programme showing what the responsibilities and obligations of honourable senators will be. If the vote is taken I shall support the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
 I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. At what time did Trans-Australia Airlines flight 507 depart from Perth on Thursday, 27th August 1970? Did it arrive in Adelaide at approximately 9 p.m. that night? Were there a number of passengers on that flight who were booked through to Sydney on connecting flight 521? Were these passengers off-loaded at Adelaide and accommodated at the Grosvenor Hotel overnight? Was their journey interrupted because flight 521 was booked out with passengers from Adelaide? If not, what was the cause of the interruption? 
 I enter into this debate mainly to discuss the reasons which were given by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  for his refusal to allow  Mr Gregory  to enter this country. I commence my remarks by referring to an article which appeared in the 'Australian' of today's date, which states: 

 Mr Lynch's statement made the Gregory case the Government's first positive blow in the 'law and order' campaign being pressed strongly by Liberal and Country Party members. 
It was quite clear from remarks made in the Budget debate last night that LiberalCountry Party back benchers are forcing the Government to make law and order the main issue of the forthcoming Senate election. I hope that the election will be fought on the issue of law and order. In this way the people of Australia will be able to decide the type of law and order and the type of freedom that there should be in this country. The article quotes the Minister for Immigration as having said that people were not prevented from entering Australia just because their political views differed from those of the Government. What are the reasons for refusing admittance to  Mr Gregory?  He said that he was coming here as a sightseer. There is no doubt that he would see a lot of sights in Australia as well as speaking in the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. Do honourable senators opposite think that he is coming to Australia only to speak in the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign and nothing else? Surely he would travel around Australia and be a sightseer. He would be a welcome visitor to Australia if he were allowed to come here. The article quotes the Minister for Immigration as also saying: 
In the Government's view this applies where the intentions are related to a one-sided, distorted anti-war Moratorium Campaign inimical to the objects for which Australian troops are fighting in Vietnam. 
And thirdly, it would give encouragement to those- 
I imagine the Minister is referring to those people who are organising the Moratorium Campaign in protest against Australia's involvement in Vietnam -  who seek not peace but peaceful submission, to those who seek to promote the rule of the streets and the power of the mob with the subsequent threat that that involves to the maintenance of law and order in this country.  lt is said that the refusal to grant an entry permit to Gregory is the first positive blow in a law and order campaign for the Senate election which is to be held later this year. I would be very pleased to take part in an election on the issue of law and order in this country. 
I will be on the side which the honourable senator's father was on in 1921 when he took part in the formulation of the Socialist policy of the Australian Labor Party. I remember the conference in 1.921 and will talk about it if the honourable senator wants me to do so. Who are the evil spirits in this country who are advocating disorder and disruption? As named by  Sir Henry  Bolte, there are 2 people in this country who are doing it. One is  Mr Bob  Hawke of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. However, the real evil villain is  Dr Jim  Cairns ot Victoria. He is Vi lifted as being a man who is committed to disruption and breach of the law. However, on every occasion on which  Dr Cairns  has spoken in support of a protest against the war in Vietnam he has counselled peace. It was a bitter blow to the hawks on the other side of the chamber when the last Moratorium Campaign was so peaceful in Victoria, New South Wales and Western Australia. However, it was not so peaceful in South Australia because members of the armed forces were sent in as provocateurs. I believe that they were directed by the Government to try and break up the Moratorium Campaign in South Australia because the other peaceful demonstrations a couple of days earlier had been successful. These tactics will be used again on 18th and 19th September. The provocateurs will be in there to see that the next Moratorium Campaign is not peaceful. 
Honourable senators opposite are advocating the introduction of legislation to ensure law and order. Was there any talk about a law and order Bill when a threat was made on the life of Arthur Calwell? Was any attempt made to ensure law and order at that time? Was there any talk about law and order when  Dr Jim  Cairns was attacked in his own home? No, there was no talk about law and order. But there is talk of law and order today because of a demonstration which was held outside the home of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes),  lt was an arranged demonstration. Who advised the Press and television media to be present when the demonstration was held? For how long had  Mr Hughes  been practising the left hook which was photographed from many different angles in the various issues of the daily Press? The Government should stand up and admit that it arranged and provoked the demonstration. 
Silting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was dealing with the phoney demonstration that took place outside the residence of the Attorney-General. In case any part of what I said was not heard by honourable senators, J shall repeat the sequence of events. I want to know how it came to be that there was an arranged demonstration at that place which the Press and the television camera mcn were invited to attend. I want to know how long the Attorney-General has been practising the left hook which was photographed from so many different angles, which photographs appeared in so many issues of the metropolitan daily Press. I further want to know who placed the cricket bat in a convenient: position for the Attorney-General to be able to have photographs of it taken. To me this appears to be the first blow that the Government has attempted to strike in its law and order campaign for the coming Senate election. 
Why does not the Government use the laws it has at present? Why does it not enforce the present laws of the country? Why are the young men who refuse to register for national service not gaoled? Why did not the Government carry out its proposal to put them to work on isolated farms or sheep stations in the centre of Australia? Has not the Government the intestinal fortitude to enforce the laws that it has? People break the law, and the Government says that the law has to be obeyed. It says that the honourable member for Lalor is encouraging people to break the law, that he is the evil spirit that exists in Australia at present. But it has not the intestinal fortitude to enforce the laws that the Parliament has authorised to be put on the statute book. People have been convicted of offences against the National Service Act and the Government is not prepared to collect the fines imposed on them. If it is good enough for the Government to ignore the law and to have the courts used for the purpose of convicting people, and if the Government is not prepared to enforce the sentences imposed by the courts, how can the Government gain any respect from the people when it tries to say that other people are encouraging a breach of the law? Obviously the law must be a bad one if the Government is not prepared to enforce it. If the Government is of the opinion that the law is a bad one, how can it substantiate criticism of people who say that a bad law should be protested against. Surely the stage has been reached where the law has to be enforced or has to come off the statute book. 
I challenge the Government to enforce the law as part of its law and order campaign for the Senate election. I would be only too pleased to take part in a campaign of this nature, but I am satisfied that such a campaign is another phoney trick pulled by the Government to distract attention from its mismanagement of the Australian economy. The Government wants some other' issue to bring before the people to distract the attention of the pensioners and the taxpayers who have had more taken away from them than has been given to them. The Government thought up this phoney law and order campaign for the Senate election. Someone must have read Time' magazine or 'Newsweek' to have thought of this; Government members would not have been able to think of it themselves. They have thought up this law and order campaign for the Senate election. That will suit the Australian Labor Party down to the ground. We will fight on that issue any time the Government wants to fight on it. T have not much more to say on this issue. 
I think it is a disgraceful act on the part of the Government to refuse entry into 
Australia of Gregory for the purpose of sight seeing and, while visiting, of addressing Australians on the evils of the Vietnam war. The war is an evil one. No matter how the Government may try to justify our involvement in it, over SO per cent of Australians do not believe the Government. That is borne out by the gallup polls that have been conducted and by the demonstrations that people have held in protest against our involvement. 
The last one 1 saw was substantially in favour of our withdrawal from Vietnam. The Government look no notice of that. No doubt the Government has some control over the pollsters who conduct these gallup polls because since the last one showed such an overwhelming majority in favour of withdrawal another poll has not been conducted.  I  would like to know now whether the gallup pollsters will conduct another poll. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has said that troops would be withdrawn from Vietnam on the same basis and in the same ratio as American troop withdrawals but no Australian troops have been withdrawn. They are still stuck in Vietnam and are still being shot at by people whom this Government has not the intestinal fortitude to declare to be enemies of Australia. 
The Minister for Immigration has refused to allow a man to come here to talk to Australians because he would disturb the morale of the Australian troops in Vietnam. That is one of the reasons why Gregory is not allowed into Australia. But the Government has not the intestinal fortitude to declare that there arc any enemies of Australia in Vietnam. No war has been declared. The  20-year-olds  are carrying the burden for Australia. It is business as usual for everyone else. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  admitted that in his Budget Speech when he said that this year profits in industry had risen by  14  per cent. That was probably the biggest factor in the inflationary spiral. It is business as usual for everyone except the  20-year-olds.  When will the Government wake up to the fact that Australians do not support a policy of this nature? We support Gregory's application to visit this country to inform and to alert us about what is going on in 
America in respect of America's Involvement in Vietnam. I urge the Government to reconsider its decision. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Has the petroleum exploration well in the adjacent area of the Northern Territory - Petrel No. 1 - yet been brought under control? If not, when is it going to be controlled? When is this wilful waste of Australian resources going to stop? 
Quite obviously it will be necessary for me to advert back to the appropriate Department to get an answer to this question, t would hope to get an answer to the first part of the question, and I might make an observation as to the last part of the question when I get the answer to the first part. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has the Minister issued a permit and/or licence to Esso/B.H.P. to export 1,000,000 tons of Liquid Petroleum Gas (L.P.G.) from Bass Strait. 
Does any such permit or licence contain details of the sale price per ton of the L.P.G. ; if so, what is the price per ton at which this natural resources is being sold overseas. 
 I have indicated that 1 intend to join Committee 'D' because of a particular interest that I have in civil aviation and national development, and because I have a belief in the committee system. Like  Senator Cavanagh,  I wonder what will happen to some of the other items of the Estimates in which I have some interest. The yellow covered book on proposed procedures for Senate Estimates  Committees which has been circulated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  states that a consideration of estimates by the Committees was to be spread over 3 weeks. The period allotted to Committee 'D' on which I shall serve was 12½ hours. The proposed timetable for sittings of the Committees is set out at page 12 of the book and a suggested timetable for Committee 'D' is set out at page 16. If we take the third week from that timetable we take away 4¾ hours of the proposed sitting time and leave 7½ hours for the Committee to consider the estimates of the departments for which  Senator Cotton  is responsible; that is, the Department of Civil Aviation, the Department of the Interior, the Department of National Development, the Department of Shipping and Transport and the Department of Customs and Excise. 
The point is that this document was drawn up on the basis of 3 weeks being available for sittings of the Committees, but we will be limited to 2 weeks - next week and the week after. The Committees will not be sitting during the week that the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association is meeting in Canberra. But we are left still with the proposition put forward by  Senator Cavanagh,  that the 20 minutes to be allowed for questioning will have to be reduced. I suggest that we will get confusion out of chaos in the committee system if we proceed in this way. 
I keep my ear pretty well to the ground in relation to what is going on about Parliament House and I know that many people here do not think the committee system will work. They have suggested that the system is crazy, that we will have the Committees considering the Estimates which will then be re-argued by the Committee of the Whole in the debate on the Appropriation Bills. Some honourable senators have chosen not to serve on the Committees because they want a freedom to discuss any of the estimates of expenditure and propose to do this in the debate on the Appropriation Bill. If  Senator Greenwood  wants to know, this is the sort of confusion which now exists. But if the sitting times are to be reduced to 2 weeks without new guidelines being laid down, there will be chaos. I suggest 

 Order of Business that as a result of the reduced sitting time the Committees will not be able to give adequate attention to the matters put before them and  members  of the Committees even will be coming into this chamber, to continue their work when the Appropriation Bil] comes before us for consideration. I believe that the committee system should be thought out quite a bit further and that more consideration than has been given so far should be given to it. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister -for Supply) - by leave - I should like to intercede without closing the debate because 1 believe that I might be able to circumvent some of the continuing debate. The motion how before the Senate is that the sitting be suspended until 8 p.m. We have already debated the principles of the committee system and the Senate, after a full debate, carried a motion adopting those principles. The book of proposed procedures for Senate Estimates Committees which has been referred to by honourable senators is merely to establish some guidelines. As  Senator Cant  has said, many questions of procedure are as yet undetermined. What we propose to do, with the goodwill of honourable senators which has been indicated from both sides of the chamber, is to go to the committee rooms where the Committees will first of all elect their chairmen. Having done that, no doubt a discussion among members of the Committee who have been appointed will follow. A document has been circulated showing the names of honourable senators who will serve on the various Committees. Under the guidance of the chairmen, members of the Committees will discuss in the first instance how they will proceed. It is true that they will have the yellow covered book, on proposed procedures as a guide. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAllow me to develop my argument; the honourable senator can then question me On any point that he wishes to raise. When the Committees have discussed procedure they will then set about to consider the Estimates. It is not to be imagined, nor was it ever thought, that a consideration of the Estimates by the Estimates Committees would be the only discussion of the Estimates, that when the Estimates Committees completed their consideration and 

 Order of Business 685 reported to the Senate that would be the finish of the matter, that honourable senators would have no further opportunity to discuss the Estimates. Such a suggestion is completely unreal and a procedure of that kind would do scant justice to honourablesenators on either side of the chamber, lt is hoped that the establishment of the committee system will enable honourable senators, as committeemen, to seek information on points of detail, information which in the past has been sought during the Estimates debate by the Committee of the Whole. I shall come back in a moment to the question of who can attend at Committee hearings. 
The committee system will enable honourable senators to get answers from the respective ' Ministers and departmental officers. This material will be recorded in a daily Hansard so that when the Committees report to the Senate, all honourable senators will be aware of answers that have been given. It may be that at that time honourable senators may wish to have further discussion on some matters. If this system achieves nothing else, at least it should leave the Senate with more time because in the debates on the Estimates in this place, even when the proceedings have been broadcast, honourable senators have sought information, as they are entitled to do, about some modest variation in one line of expenditure from one year to the next, information which can usually be supplied by a simple reference in a departmental answer. It is felt that by going into the Estimates Committees in chambers, as it were, we will be able to provide honourable senators with many answers and much of the information that they are seeking and that we will be able to do so in a better atmosphere, one which will not inhibit them. There is no suggestion that honourable senators will be inhibited by that procedure when the Estimates come back for consideration in this chamber. 
If the Senate became bloody minded, if 1 may so describe it, when the Estimates came back into this place and decided that it wanted a full scale Estimates debate, there would be nothing in the world to prevent that from happening. But our belief and hope is that through the Estimates Committee honourable senators will be able to get information in depth. It may 17 September 1970 well be that the information which will be supplied and which will be recorded in Hansard will be of assistance to honourable senators when they come back into this place and will enable a better examination on some particular point which an honourable senator considers to be of importance. 
I refer now to the attendance of honourable senators at Committee hearings. This point, which is a valid one, was raised by  Senator Cavanagh.  This is one of the matters that we have had to look at very carefully. It is proposed that 3 Committees shall sit concurrently. It is hoped that this afternoon Committee 'A' will sit in Room LI 7, Committee 'B' in Room L58 and Committee 'D' in Room L22. It has been suggested that the bells might be rung to indicate that the Committees are sitting. This is a matter which we would have to discuss with the Presiding Officer. The expected times of sittings will certainly be circulated to all honourable senators. It is important that all honourable senators be kept informed of when the Committees are likely to sit. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONLet me explain further before the honourable senator raises difficulties. I know the difficulties. One of them was pointed out by  Senator Cavanagh.  He wants to operate on a broad canvas. If he becomes a member of one committee he will not be able to attend another committee which sits at the same time. All I can say is that it is anticipated that a senator may attend the sitting of any committee if he wants to do so. If he cannot attend, if he is required at another committee meeting or is attending a standing committee meeting, or even if he is meeting a constituent in King's Hall, he does not prejudice his rights. He will get 2 bites at the cherry. If he misses the committee meeting he may exercise his right to rise in the Senate and ask his questions here. 
It is a waste of time. 
If a senator finds that he cannot attend a committee meeting his rights are not prejudiced. I would not like to think that any Minister would then get up in the Senate and say: 'I will not give you that answer because you had your chance*. That is not the spirit. If that happens it will kill the committee system quicker than anything else. I am the first to say that. 
In that case we have the beautiful situation of the daily Hansard. If he knows that the question has been asked he can refer to the daily Hansard. He can bring the Hansard into this chamber when the committee reports to the Senate. He can then say: When committee A dealt with this matter the Minister got information from his officers and said so-and-so. I have had an opportunity to examine this,  Mr Chairman,  and I do not think the answer given is valid for the following reasons.' This is a similar procedure to supplementary questions. We will probably get a far better debate in this chamber after the committees report than we had under the old system. 
Let me put it this way: We are in an area of trial and error. It is true that this morning I met the Ministers and those honourable senators whom I anticipated would be elected as chairmen of the committees. I told them what I have said here in the Senate this afternoon. They are all here to testify to that. We are entering into a new procedure which will require great tolerance, forebearance and patience. We must all do the best we can to make the system work. The matter is in our hands. The chairmen and the Ministers have a special responsibility. I am saying to the Senate now what I said this morning when I met the Ministers and prospective chairmen. Someone mentioned a period of 20 minutes but I want to point out that that was in reference to what happens in Canada. It will be for the committee itself to decide whether it will proceed line by line and department by department. 
The basic proposal is that we follow the procedures of the Senate. Let us put our hands to the wheel. If it does not succeed then at least we have tried. I think the experience of the system in other countries will prove to be the same here and that we will find that it will be good for us because of the responsibilities we have. We will all be better informed about the affairs of the nation and therefore will be able to make a better contribution to the problems of the nation. If problems arise the  chairman  of the committee concerned has a responsibility to come back to me and tell me about them and then we will look at the problems in a frank and open way in an endeavour to resolve them. Do not imagine that we are entering upon a perfect system. We will have teething troubles but we are big enough and intelligent enough to overcome them in the best interests of the scheme. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Was the Prime Minister correctly reported as saying that the 1970 Budget would turn out to be one of the best budgets of recent years if the trade unions exercised wage restraint? Will the Prime Minister issue the same warning to the manufacturers of frozen vegetables which are reported to have increased in price by 100 per cent? Would a system of price control along with wage control contain inflation in Australia? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI would be interested to know that the trade union movement or the Australian Labor Party would subscribe to the principle of wage control. 
We have it now. What is arbitration but wage control? 
Will the Leader of the Government advise the Senate of the department to which inquiries may be directed in order to ascertain the price at which the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and the Esso company are selling overseas liquefied petroleum gas from Bass Strait? Which department is responsible for the sale overseas of Australian raw resources? I have asked the Minister for National Development and the Minister for Customs and Excise without result, and I will speak on the adjournment if I do not get a result. 
The honourable senator having asked the Minister for National Development and the Minister for Customs and Excise without result, 1 think that the honourable senator should put the question on notice and leave it with me to see what result I can obtain. 
Will the Minister for Civil Aviation advise the Senate of the matters taken into consideration when he approved the recent 6 per cent increase in air fares of domestic airlines? Will the Minister also advise the Senate of the matters taken into consideration when he approved the recent 3 per cent increase in air fares of domestic airlines? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Following the 10 per cent increase in air navigation charges in 1969 did representatives of the International Air Transport Association visit Australia for the purpose of discussing with the Government the Australian charges which were alleged to be the highest in the world? What was the outcome of those discussions? Will the Minister give a report to the Senate before the 1970 Bill on air navigation charges is debated? 
asked the Minister for 
Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What matters were taken into consideration by the Minister when he approved the recent 6 per cent increase in air fares for domestic airfines. 
What matters were considered when the Minister approved the recent 3 per cent increase in fares on domestic airlines. 
I ask the Minister representing the. Minister for Primary Industry: ls it a fact that a substantial quantity of wheat is being used in the alumina industry in Australia? Will the Minister advise the Senate of the quantity of wheat that has been used by the industry in each of the past 5 years and the price paid by the industry for the wheat - the home consumption price or the export price? If the wheat was sold for use in Australia at a price lower than the home consumption price was it rendered unfit for human consumption? If not, what precautions were taken to ensure that it was used for no other purpose than in the alumina industry? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Have Esso andBHP contracted to sell quantities of liquid petroleum gas overseas, and has the price for the gas not been revealed; if so, what method will be used to calculate the amount of royalty to be paid on the gas produced. 
The purpose of the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill 1970 is to amend air navigation charges. An examination of this legislation shows that it has been amended 9 times since 1959. We are now to consider an additional amendment, notwithstanding the fact that 2 years ago there was great controversy in Australia over the charges that the Australian Government was imposing upon airlines, with particular respect to inter-national airlines. As a result of that controversy a committee of the International Air Transport Association came to Australia to inquire into the matter. A committee of officers of the Department of Civil Aviation and representatives of the airlines was also set up to consider problems associated with air navigation charges. We are advised that the report of that committee is not available. 
I do not want to enter into an argument with the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  or his officers about whether the report is available, but it was reported in the Press on 20th August last that the report was handed to the Minister on 14th July. It was stated that it is in 2 parts, 1 part having been compiled by officers of the Department of Civil Aviation, which agrees with the Government's policy, and the other part having been compiled by representatives of the airlines. The part supplied by the airlines' representatives is severely critical of the charges imposed by the Government and is said to be an addendum to the report. 
It is alleged that because of the conflict between members of the committee the report is not available, despite the fact that several times it has been stated that there would not be any further increases in air navigation charges until that report were made available. I have made that passing reference to the report because I believe that we should be fully advised on all these matters at all times. There has been a shift in the principle of air navigation charges, particularly in the legislation now before the Senate, which makes those charges weigh more heavily upon the domestic airlines than upon the international airlines. 
The schedule of charges set out on page 2 of the Bill is very revealing. Five sets of charges are applicable in each of the 2 schedules, one for the domestic airlines and one for the international airlines. It is well known, of course, that aircraft used by the domestic airlines are much lighter than aircraft used by the international airlines. Although a comparison of the schedules is rather difficult I propose to cite 2 figures. The fourth charge in the schedule for the domestic airlines is imposed on aircraft with an all up weight of more than 100,000 lb but not more than 200,000 lb. The charge is 20.62c per lb. The international airlines do not use aircraft within that weight category, but the charge shown in the schedule for international airlines for aircraft weighing more than 100,000 lb but not more than 200,000 lb is 18.75c per lb. 
In view of the fact that the international airlines use heavier aircraft it is interesting to note that the charge per lb for the domestic airlines for aircraft weighing more than 200,000 lb is 22.63c, while the charge for international airlines for such aircraft is 20.57c per lb. The Boeing 707 aircraft has an all up weight of 328,000 lb and the Boeing 747, which has recently been used on international flights to Australia, has an all up weight of 700,000 lb. Those figures give some idea of how the charges are weighted against the domestic airlines. The categories in each of the schedules are as follows: Not more than 25,000 lb; more than 25,000 lb but not more than 50,000 lb; more than 50,000 lb but not more than 100,000 lb: more than 100,000 lb but not more than 200,000 lb; and more than 200,000 lb. No matter by how much the weight of an aircraft exceeds 200,000 lb. the charge is constant. 
The last increase in air navigation charges was 10 per cent and was applied only to domestic airlines, not to international airlines. That resulted from interference by the International Air Transport Association. The weight scales were so calculated that the charges were actually increased by 20.7 per cent, instead of 10 per cent as outlined in the legislation. Overall it seems to me that the legislation requires domestic airlines to pay more than their share for the use of the navigational aids provided by the Department of Civil Aviation. 
This does not come into the charge. The charge for each use of the aids is separate. Domestic airlines certainly will pay more because they use the facilities more often. You are looking at a total figure contributed by the domestic airlines and the international airlines, whereas the Bill deals with each landing. Charges are set for each time the facilities are used. Certainly, on the basis of frequency of use, the Bill is weighted very much against the domestic airlines because each use of the services incurs a charge. 1. am not dealing with that aspect; I am dealing with a single use by either the domestic airlines or the international airlines. 
By means of this legislation the Government last year collected $ 15.5m in air navigation charges. This year it is estimated that it will collect $ 19.25m. But these figures tell only half the story. We must look at the total picture of air navigation charges and the use of facilities at the various airports set out in the schedule to the Bill. I have taken certain figures from the Budget papers,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  The dividend paid by TransAustralia Airlines and Qantas must be regarded as income for the Department of Civil Aviation. Last year the sum collected was $25.521m and it is estimated this year that it will be $3 1.076m. I think that that figure has to be discounted against the amount that the Department outlays in navigational aids which this year is estimated to be $75m. 
I think there has to be a closer look at what the Government intends to collect. The Minister has stated - no doubt he was stating Government policy and I do not quibble with this - that  Lt  is- the intention of the Government to collect the total of what should be properly attributed to civil aviation. The word 'properly' thus becomes very important. What should be properly attributed to civil aviation in this field? Should we discount the total sum expended for navigational aids by the benefit to community services? I refer to air services in outback areas which probably are the main line of communication for rural people, mining companies and others. Poeple know that in the north of Australia during the wet season roads are out of commission. Quite frequently other forms of communication are out because of cyclone activity. The only lifeline is. an air service, and this is not always available unless there are allweather facilities available at. airports. In many cases the airline is the only form of communication for quite lengthy periods. 
What amount should be discounted from the cost of navigational aids for the provision of this community service? What amount should be discounted for national development? I take it that the Committee to which the Minister has referred will be looking at these sorts of things. I believe they should have been looked at long before this legislation was brought before the Senate. There is no doubt that air services and the aids provided for them play a very important part in Australia's national development. 
I think we should be considering how much these charges should be discounted for defence reasons. We know that there are several airfields in Australia that are used by the defence Services as well as by the Department of Civil Aviation. It was only quite recently that the Mirage aircraft operating out of Pearce Royal Australian Air Force base ceased using Perth airport for night flying exercises. Senators have been told during consideration in committee of the Estimates that it is anticipated that Learmonth airport in Western Australia will be the alternative airport for Perth. I do not know how this idea will fit in with . the requirements of the domestic airlines because Learmonth is 700 miles further on from Perth airport. Aircraft will have to be able to carry sufficient fuel to fly 1,400 miles in order to get back to Perth. This distance is greater than the operational capacity of the DC9.'Yet we have been informed that Learmonth is to be the alternate airport for Perth. 
The Government has for a number of years neglected defence bases in Western Australia and has announced that it is going to do something about Cockburn Sound and that .it will upgrade Learmonth airport so that it can.be used by whatever aircraft - whether it be the Phantom or the Fill - is to be chosen for Western Australia's defence. That is the very purpose of upgrading Learmonth airport. I could continue referring to these sort of things. There is provision in one of our Acts whereby the Commonwealth Government can commandeer all the aircraft owned by the domestic airlines and by Qantas for defence purposes. What amount should be discounted for defence purposes, from the cost of providing navigational aids? 
This year the Department of Civil Aviation will collect $5m from rents and leases of parking lots, restaurants, bars and other facilities provided at airports. But when is the Department going to start charging the Department of Customs and Excise for the customs facilities built at airports? When is it going to charge the Department of Immigration and the Department of Health for the facilities provided for them at international airports? It must be remembered that the biggest costs involved in providing navigational facilities are for facilities for international services. Many of the facilities provided at the international terminals are hot required at the domestic terminals, yet they are put there and the domestic services have to contribute to their cost. 
I think it is time that the Department decided that other departments should have to pay for the cost of these facilities. It probably would involve only a book entry, but if there were charges for the use of these facilities by other departments at airports it would have the effect of reducing the deficit between what the Department recovered for services provided and the amount expended on the services. We should consider also how much of the excise on fuel should be devoted towards offsetting the cost of the facilities provided. If a road is constructed or if a school is built an annual charge is not made on the people who use the facility and that charge is not increased each year. 
The construction of runways and taxiways is a very heavy liability in navigation charges. None of the excise on fuel is used to offset the charges that are made against the industry. At this point it is interesting to observe that, despite the fact that heavy overseas aircraft require very much stronger runways and taxiways, the international airlines do not pay the excise that will be imposed by a Bill that will come before the Senate within the next few days. The payment of this excise falls only on the domestic airlines. When these matters are added together, it can be seen that the weight of charges is very much against the domestic airlines. 
Some airlines have ceased to operate many internal services under the Government's policy of airline companies providing commuter services. Many small airlines that provide these services have cropped up. What will be the effect of the continual increase in air navigation charges on these small airlines? Already some of them are in financial difficulties. I know that one in New South Wales has called in the receivers because at present it has some hundreds of thousands of dollars outstanding. Many of the others are in very great financial difficulties because of continually increasing costs. If these commuter services reach the stage at which they are unable to continue to operate, the people who require and, in fact, are most in need of the services - that is, country people or people in rural or outback areas - will be left without them. 
On this occasion the attack upon the airlines has been most severe because not only has there been a 10 per cent increase in air navigation charges but also - perhaps I should not refer to the others - there has been a 3c increase in the excise on fuel and now the Postmaster-General has notified the airlines that he proposed to reduce by 29 per cent the amount that the Department is paying for the carriage of mail. We should remember that the 2 domestic airlines- 
1 would say that it was a Cabinet decision. The matter does not come before the Senate. The Post Office is a business concern. It can charge what it likes. I suppose, under the agreement between the Post Office and the airlines, the airlines are forced to carry the mail. It is an arbitrary decision by the Postmaster-General or a direction by Cabinet. 
 I do not think so. 
A fair sum would be involved. The 2 domestic airlines - Ansett Transport Industries and TAA - at present have incomes of approximately $2m a year from the carriage of mail. This must fall considerably if the Postmaster-General reduces the amount that is paid for the carriage of mail. Despite the fact that postal charges have been increased as a result of the Budget, the cost of posting a letter having risen from 5c to 6c, the 
Postmaster-General proposes to reduce the amount that is paid for the carriage of mail. 
The schedule to which I referred earlier seems to contain a hidden subsidy to the international airlines. I do not quarrel with that at this time. At some other time I would, but if there is to be a subsidy to the international airlines we should recognise it when we study these charges. It is not fair to say that some preference is to be given to international airlines and at the same time to say that the total costs properly attributable to civil aviation will be recovered. If there is to be a hidden subsidy, the charges must be discounted in accordance with it. Those are the criticisms that I make of the Bill on this occasion. 
On previous occasions I have said that, if we were not provided with the report of the -IATA committee that came to Australia, I would move in the Senate for a tabling of that report. I think we should have been provided with that report before this Bill was introduced. I know the difficulties that the Minister and his departmental officers face when they try to provide these reports. Inquiries were made because 8 airlines objected to paying the navigation charges imposed by the 1968 Budget. A committee of inquiry was set up. We should have been provided with that report before further increases were contemplated by this legislation. I shall move for the tabling of the papers in the autumn session if they are not tabled before then. The charges do not come into operation until 1st January. When the report is available it may be necessary for an honourable senator, by a private member's Bill, to attempt to amend the legislation by deleting many of the unfair provisions in it. Those are all the criticisms that I propose to make of the legislation at this time. 
Sitting suspended from 5.44 to 8 p.m. 
An amendment has been circulated by  Senator Byrne  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. Whilst it was fairly common knowledge before the suspension of the sitting that the Democratic Labor Party would be moving an amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time, the amendment had not been circulated. We were not aware of the text of the amendment and to that extent we have been caught somewhat on the hop by the material that  Senator Byrne  has presented. The Opposition wants to give serious consideration to the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Byrne.  Honourable senators will be aware that the party machines work on these things. When members of my Party considered the Bill that the Minister had introduced we were of the opinion that it should not be opposed, but now that an amendment has been introduced by  Senator Byrne  we think that we should give further consideration to the measure. 
I think at some time or other we all play some politics, and the longer we stay here the more politics we play. 
The honourable senator will understand more as he becomes more mature in this chamber. 
I am entitled to speak to the amendment. I am not out of order. The Opposition believes that the amendment deserves serious consideration before we decide to support it or oppose it. We will not be able to consider the matter for a few days. 
No, we have no problems, but unlike Government supporters we have limited facilities for our leaders, not only to do the work that is required of them in this place but also to do the work that is required of them throughout the length and breadth of this Commonwealth. Our leaders are not always available for us to consult them. As a matter of fact, tonight I had a little difficulty in finding one of the 4 leaders to get some advice. We have a regular caucus meeting every Wednesday. There is no urgency about the legislation that is presently before us. Whatever happens to the legislation tonight or next Wednesday night, the Bill will not come into operation before 1st January 1971 and 1 can see no particular reason why it should be rushed through at this stage. 
No, it is not, and I thought the honourable senator would have given me more credit than that. When I spoke in the debate on the second reading I said that the charges were overweighted against the domestic airlines. I do not want to argue the merits or demerits of the amendment proposed by  Senator Byrne. 
Because my Party has not considered it. 
Honourable senators opposite may have their own views, but 1 notice that they slick very closely to the views of their Parties when a vote is taken. J do not want to argue with the honourable senator on this aspect at the moment. Honourable senators opposite claim to have a philosophical and objective policy, but at the same time, they claim the right to come into this chamber with a free mind not to support at any given time those philosophies and objectives. This is the difference between the Parties which honourable senators opposite represent and my Party. I come in here to support the philosophies and objectives of the Australian Labor Party.  Mr Acting Deputy  President,I ask leave to continue my remarks. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  -Is leave granted? 
I shall remember that I have been refused leave. Therefore, I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - The question is 'That the debate be now adjourned'. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  Senator Murphy,  do you wish to make a statement or to speak to the motion? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Yes. I shall. J point out to  Senator Murphy  that  Senator Cant  asked leave originally to continue his remarks. Leave was not granted to him.  Senator Cant  then sought, lo have the debate adjourned by moving That the debate be now adjourned'. This was opposed by the Minister for Civil Aviation. The motion which was put by  Senator Cant  at that time was not in order. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - I rule that the motion should be now put. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- ls leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Like my Leader. 1 want to brand this sales tax increase an inflationary measure. All indirect taxes are inflationary. They hil those on the lower incomes just as hard as they hit those on the higher incomes. Those who can least afford the increases are forced to bear them. In the list of goods on which the Government proposes to increase the sales tax are many items that are in daily use in the homes of the Australian people. They are necessities; they are not luxuries. Yet they are put into the luxury category. 
The Budget that has been brought down is inflationary, despite the fact that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  says that inflation has been contained. But how has inflation been contained? Is it contained by statements by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  at dinners at which the  President  of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is present and at which the Prime Minister warns the assembly that there should not be increases in wages, at a time when the oil industry case is being presented to the Commission and when a case for an increase in the national wage is pending? There is inflation when workers want wage increases. There is inflation when the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  warns the Arbitration Commission that the economy of the country cannot afford increased wages. Despite the fact that  Mr Bury  is prepared to say that inflation has been contained, he warns the Commission that the economy will not stand wage increases. If the cost of living continues to increase, we must expect wage demands. 
There is no thought in the Government's head of containing the real cause of inflation. We have had demand inflation. We have had cost inflation. At the present time we are going through a period of profit inflation. That was admitted in the Budget speech that the Treasurer presented in the Parliament on 18th August. 
They are all actual inflation. They are all inflationary measures. The demands for wage increases are forced on the people by the arbitrary actions of this Government in measures such as the ones that are before the Parliament at the present time. There is no thought in the Government's head of putting a tax on profits or of putting a tax on capital gains. That would not do. The Government could not do that because the people who would be hit the most by such a tax are those who provide the sinews of war for the Liberal Party and the Country Party. 
We all know what the honourable senator gets out of the superphosphate bounty. So, do not let him be bashful about it. The people who would be hit by an excess profits tax or a capital gains tax are those who provide the sinews of war, and that is why they are not attacked by the Government. Yet millions of dollars of taxation revenue is lying around waiting to be picked up by this means, if the Government would only do it. 
I have just had a look at a few of the items which are supposed to be luxuries and which are in the schedule of items on which the sales tax is to be increased by 2.5 per cent. One item is motor cars and sta1 ion wagons. I warn the Government that the increases in sales tax in the 'horror Budget* of I960, as presented by the late 

 Mr Holt when he was Treasurer, almost brought the Government down. If the Government continues in this sort of way, it will fall - when it has the guts to go to the country. Let me say to members of the Democratic Labor Party that they need not be frightened of a double dissolution. Why do not they send the Government that is doing these things to the country? All they have to do in order to do that is to reject this series of measures- 
Of course we have enough worries. We always have enough worries. But you have a few more worries than we have. 
There would not be any double dissolution. The Government would have to go to the country because it has supply only until the end of November. Members of the DLP know that. They have made a deal with the Government and they are not prepared to break away front it. Why do not they admit that? 
lt is just as well that some of us have imagination. You have not. You have gone past the stage of having imagination. 
Fantasyland is not a bad land. I have seen people in other lands. I have mentioned motor cars. They are not a luxury these days, but they are an easy target for taxation. Every time that the Commonwealth Government or a State government wants to raise additional revenue it has a shot at the motorist. He is the one that they want to get at. 
 Perhaps you should go to Russia. 
But if you know so much about the country, you should be there. 
Of course it will, and well you know it. Surely  Senator Webster  is not trying to tell me that male pensioners do not shave, or that elderly ladies do not want a hairdo occasionally, or do not want to use lipstick. Apparently  Senator Webster  thinks they do not. 1 wonder what his wife pays for cosmetics. He is able to afford it. 
But he does. All toilet and beauty preparations are subject to increased sales tax as from 19th August. Powder compacts, powder puffs, power sprays, powder bowls, lipstick containers and perfume sprays are subject to the increased tax. 
 Senator Keeffe  made his speech and the Hansard report of it has not yet been issued. I will read it tomorrow morning.  Senator Kennelly  would be about the only senator who would be able to dodge the increased tax on the next item because he uses a blade razor. Safety razors and safety razor blades, electric shavers and other mechanical shavers and parts and accessories for them are all to be subject to the increased tax. Will any honourable senator opposite tell me that they are not necessities? All aids to shaving are covered. 
Although the boys are running around with long hair, there is no increase in the tax on hairdressing tools. Scissors are particularly excluded. It therefore seems to me that the Government favours the long-haired boys. Toilet or dressing cases, including home hair waving sets, are covered by this measure. The hairdressers will be forced to pass on these increases in their costs. All the preparations they use in their salons are subject to the increased tax, so they will be forced to raise their prices. Many housewives will have to look after their own hair because the preparations they require are all to be increased in price. AU these things impose a further burden on the people. It is no use to talk about the $29m increase in taxation revenue. In fact it is $29m on top of several other millions of dollars to be gained by the Government through increased taxation. 
I would think that anybody with any regard for people in the lower income group would oppose this measure. But the people who purport to be the champions of the little people are not prepared to oppose this legislation. That is fair enough. They are entitled to their own views, but they are not entitled to go out and tell the people or to use this chamber to say that they are the champions of the little people in this country and want justice for them. When the debates in this forum of Parliament are not being broadcast, those so-called champions of the little people criticise this measure but al the same time say that they will support it. They use the pretext that if they keep nibbling away at the Budget by refusing small increases the Budget will have to be thrown out. 
It is amazing where money can come from. Only last week the Prime Minister was able to find an extra $360m to buy off  Sir Henry  Bolte. But 1. am not sure that he has yet bought him off.  Sir Henry  might still go on with his challenge to the payroll tax. He has not yet withdrawn the writ he has issued against the Commonwealth to straighten out this matter. There has been an attempt by the expenditure of S360m of public money to buy off the Premiers from opposing the Commonwealth. 
lt is $360m over a period of 5 years. You can work it out for yourself. It is $50m this year, and that is more than the increase in pensions will cost, lt is more than will be raised by the increases in taxation we are now debating. When the Treasurer presented the Budget he said that the Government could not alford to pay the pensioners an increase of more than 50c a week. That is to cost about  $3  1m a year, but $50m can be grabbed out of the air at any time to try lo buy an election. The same thing happened a couple of years ago when the Commonwealth Government gave the 
Western Australian Government about S40m or $50m for the Ord River scheme. If the Government has its way, it will use public money to buy itself back into office on this occasion. 
The Government is giving the people too little. It could have afforded to give them more. Where did the $50m come from to buy off the State Premiers? That could have been used to give the pensioners an increase of SI a week instead of 50c. This is the sort of accounting that  Senator Webster  does not understand because he does not want to understand it. Along with the rest of the Opposition. I oppose the measure. 
 The debate on this Bill has been extremely valuable both to the Government and to the Opposition. I endorse the remarks made by  Senator Murphy  and a great many of the remarks passed by  Senator Byrne.  I believe that before there is any further increase in these charges the Government should take notice of what has been said and also other matters which the Department of Civil Aviation would be more aware of than perhaps the Parliament is. Yesterday during the debate the 
Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  was good enough to inform the Senate of the effect of the increases in charges in the amendment moved by  Senator Byrne  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party were to be passed by the Parliament. It was very revealing. I wonder whether the Minister may provide us with figures showing the effect on domestic airlines if the charges were brought down as proposed in. the amendment? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has the petroleum exploration welt in the adjacent area of the Northern Territory (Petrel No.1) yet been brought under control; if  not,  when is it going to be controlled, and when is this waste of Australian resources going to stop. 
1 was not here when  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack spoke so 1 did not hear what he said. But it disturbs me to think that an application is before the Senate in the face of the Standing Orders for permission for a standing committee or a select committee to sit during the time that the Senate is sitting. I agree that there are peculiar circumstances here because the sitting of the Senate is being suspended to allow committees to sit. Nevertheless this is action which the Senate has taken.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack wants permission for the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange to sit because witnesses are in Canberra. 1 wonder whether the honourable senator anticipated a decision of the Senate and invited his witnesses to be present today when he is fully aware of what the Standing Orders provide. I have always been a supporter of committees. I think the committee system in the Senate is perhaps the most valuable work that the Senate can do. I have tried to play my part as far as the committees are concerned. But I think it would be bad for this Senate to adopt a policy of having select committees or standing committees sitting when the Senate is in session. 1 say this mainly because I think we should be all informed on what is going on in the Senate as far as we are able consistent with the work that we have to perform on matters which we are handling in the Senate. 
A proposition is before the Senate for 8 standing committees to be set up. Each one of those is to be manned by 8 honourable senators. If all those committees make successful applications to sit while the Senate is sitting and there is no duplication of honourable senators on the standing committees then there will be no Senate at all. I oppose the application on this occasion but I warn the Senate that I will not accept this as a matter which should be coming before the Senate as a general principle. If honourable senators are going to do this sort of thing the Standing Orders should be brought before the Senate so that the Senate can adopt a standing order which will allow this work to be done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
We have just heard an apology from  Senator Byrne  for the actions of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in the name of responsibility. I would say that its actions were in the name of a deal which had been made between the Democratic Labor Party and the Government. I do not want to say any more about the activities of the Democratic Labor Party. The more I look at its members the more r am disgusted. 
There is room on the list of speakers if  Senator Sim  wants to put his name down. Earlier this afternoon, in a debate on another matter,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson accused the Australian Labor Party of creating a disturbance within the Parliament because it was not prepared to face up to a debate on the Government's income tax measures while the proceedings of the Senate were being broadcast. I say to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that my colleagues and 1 welcome this opportunity to discuss the Government's taxation policies. If anyone is not prepared to face up to a debate on the Government's taxation policies it is the supporters of the Government - both the members of the Australian Country Party and the members of the so-called Liberal Party of Australia. As far as 1 am concerned it is a conservative party. Not one member of those parties is listed to speak in this debate. 
I do not want to throw any rubbish at the Country Party. 'Hie people it represents have had enough rubbish thrown at them by *he Country Party itself. However, it is not -for me to throw rubbish at it. The Budget which was presented on 18th August last again depicted the battle which has. been going on between the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Department of the Treasury. A highly inflationary Budget was put down in 1969 because the Prime Minister insisted upon having his own way, despite the advice of the then Treasurer. The result was that the Treasury had to apply restrictive monetary measures in the last quarter of the fiscal year. This quarter generally generates its own restrictions, but these restrictions were generated as  a  result of the 1969 Budget. 
The 1970 Budget imposes almost the same inflationary pressures on the economy. This is borne out by the warnings to the people of Australia and, in particular, to the industrial tribunals, of the Prime Minister, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  that -the Australian economy cannot stand wage increases. I do not know what will happen now that a decision has been given -in the oil case to grant substantial increases. I believe that substantial increases will be granted as a result of the national wage case, too. The Budget is highly inflationary. Pressure will be applied for wage increases. Increases in taxation revenue will occur as a result of these wage increases. The Commonwealth Government is the main beneficiary of any increases in wage rates because of the income tax scale. When he became Prime Minister of Australia  Mr Gorton  made some enthusiastic statements about being the champion of the underdog, particularly of those people in our community who are in receipt of social services. 
The honourable senator is entitled to believe that the granting of a 50c a week increase in the age pension proves the Prime Minister's claim up to the hilt. 
The honourable senator is entitled to believe that the granting of a 50c a week increase in the age pension proves the Prime Minister's claim up to the hilt, but there are not many people in the community who will agree with him. The Government proposes this financial year to decrease the income tax derived from what is called the middle and lower income groups by $228m. In his policy speech last year during a House of Representatives election the Prime Minister agreed to reduce taxation by $200m over a period of 3 years. He excelled himself and in three-quarters of a year he gave middle and lower income groups $228m. In a whole year it will amount to $289m. It is interesting to note that having done this not by an equitable adjustment of the scales of taxation but by an across the board reduction he has found it necessary to increase other charges upon the people of Australia. 
The increased customs and excise charges amount to $95m. They are paid equally by those who can afford to pay them and those who cannot afford to pay them. Sales tax has been increased by $23m. Even though the increases are on only a selected number of items they bear equally upon those who purchase goods irrespective of their rate of income. Company tax has been increased by $79m. Of course this cost will be passed on to the consumer. There is a miscellaneous item of SI. 79m. These amounts represent a total of $198.79m for recovery of revenue by the Government. In fact, the amount that will be made available to the people this year will be in the vicinity of $30m. That will be the amount of relief from taxation Australians will receive, and not $228m. If this is the way the Prime Minister wants to fulfill his policy of being the champion of the underdog, it is a pretty peculiar way to me. 
I have had a look at some of the taxation scales that have been produced by the various media following the Budget on 18th August. I have noted an article in the Australian Financial Review' of 19th August. If we look at the minimum wage of §42.50 which amounts roughly to $2,200 per annum we find that the saving for the worker on that wage is roughly 50c a week, being $26.64 a year. That is the saving that the minimum wage plug obtains. On the average weekly wage which is roughly $4,000 per annum or $77 a week the saving is $1.50 a week. In the income bracket of $10,000 which we come into as members of Parliament the saving is $6.70 a week. The top of the scale of this across the board 10 per cent reduction comes in at $16,000. The saving to the so called middle income earner on $16,000 a year is $9.61 a week. If this is an equitable way to distribute the tax burden within the community then I have still a lot to learn about it. 
I would think that if the Government wanted to do something for the middle and lower income group within the community it would have revised the taxation scale by commencing at the lower level with a reduction of something like 20 per cent, with gradual decreases in the percentage of reduction, the reduction cutting out at about $20,000. If the Government wanted to do something to assist the family man it would have had a look at the taxation remissions which are allowed such as the amounts which one may claim for dependants. From a revision of the scale and of the allowable deductions for dependants the family man would have received considerable assistance. But the Government has not seen fit to do this. It has seen fit to bring down a taxation measure which greatly favours those on what would be termed 'more than the middle class income'. It favours the single man as against the married man. Overall it provides little benefit for any. Yet when the Treasurer is questioned about greater reductions in taxation to assist those on lower incomes or about increases in benefits paid to those less fortunate within our community he says that the Budget is finely balanced and to do anything more with it would throw the economy into chaos. Once again the Prime 
Minister does not agree with him. Over a period of 5 years the Prime Minister made a handout of S3 60m to buy off  Sir Henry  Bolte. Over $50m of this amount will be paid this year. This represents more than enough to have given the pensioners an increase of a further 50c a week. Anyone who has watched the performance of the conservative parties in this chamber over the period that they have been in Government - they are very fortunate to have been in Government for the period that they have- 
If the Government could pull another Petrov out of the high hat in 1972 it might be returned again but it will have to deceive the people to be able to do that. 
For 15 years now a lot of people including the ultra-conservatives of the Democratic Labor Party have been praying for the collapse of the Australian Labor Party. It is still here, of course. If the honourable senator wants some historical background 1 point out that the Australian Country Party which does not have an honourable senator present in this chamber at the moment was formed for the express purpose of taking over the role of the Australian Labor Party following the split in 1917. But that did not happen. The Australian Labor Party will survive. We still obtain more votes from the electors than any other political party in Australia. We are still the only party in Austrafia which is able to form a government in its own right. Liberal Party supporters sitting on the other side of the chamber are now supported by the Country Party and, in 33 seats, by DLP preferences. The honourable senators admire themselves for being on the Treasury benches. The sooner they get rid of these delusions and believe that the people do not want them the better. But they have things so rigged that the people cannot dispose of them. When honourable senators opposite have ruined the economy of this country the Australian Labor Party will be asked to take over and rectify the mess they have made. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson.  I wish that it had been couched in other words and that it had expressed the inequity of the Government's proposal.- 
Debate interrupted. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for National 
Development when it will be possible to get an answer to question No. 567 standing in my name on the notice paper. My anxiety about it is caused by its impingement upon the so-called mirror legislation in relation to off-shore petroleum resources 
We have before us a Bill to amend the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act. Whilst it is true that it may be the intention of the Government to assist the industry, as is suggested by the title of the Bill, it will in fact spell the death knell of the gold-mining industry. The industry has made an application to the Government for a 50 per cent increase in the amount of subsidy paid to it, but that application has been refused and the present assistance of $8 per ounce is to continue for a further 3 years. In the words of the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  the purpose of the Bill isto allow the present gold-mining activity in Kalgoorlie to continue to phase out gradually'. So the fact is that the Bill promotes the end of the gold-mining industry. 
This industry has been very valuable to Australia. It has practically saved Australia on 2 occasions. Back in the 1890s when the land boom burst in eastern Australia and the banks were closing their doors everywhere, the gold-mining industry came to life in Western Australia. This was responsible in part for saving the economy of Australia. Of course, it also meant a dramatic increase in the population of Western Australia. During the depression days of the 1930s the gold-mining industry was the source of fruitful employment for a great many workers throughout Australia. I well remember being on the gold fields at the time. People from all over Australia were seeking work in that industry because it was practically the only industry throughout Australia that was buoyant. There were new towns all over Western Australia. They are ghost towns today. It seems to me that the Government has set out to make Kalgoorlie, Norseman and Mount Magnet, the 3 gold producing centres in the State, ghost towns within the next 3 years. 
It is interesting to note that the Western Australian Government proposed to send a deputation to Canberra to discuss with the 
Prime Minister further assistance for the gold mining industry. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister was so bent on the destruction of this industry that he refused to hold up the passage of the legislation until he had had negotiations with the committee that was to be sent over from Western Australia. The committee comprised the Minister for Mines in Western Australia,  Mr Griffith;  the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Tonkin;  and the  President  of the Chamber of Mines in Western Australia. lt is true that the Prime Minister did not succeed in his efforts to rush this legislation through before this deputation arrived in Canberra, because the discussions between the Prime Minister and the deputation took place last Wednesday. 
I did not have any discussions with either of the 3 gentlemen following their negotiations with the Prime Minister, but .1 have read in the Press since that they did not get any result from their visit to Canberra, lt was said that this legislation was introduced into the Parliament in August this year and that there had been ample time for the deputation to have met the Prime Minister before the legislation was put through the House of Representatives. Maybe there was plenty of time for the members of the deputation to have had discussions with the Prime Minister, but they were able to have discussions with the Prime Minister only at the Prime Minister's convenience. It was he who fixed the date for the conference to take place. In my opinion he deliberately set a late date to endeavour to get the legislation passed through the Parliament before the deputation could have these discussions with him. 
 lt was not by any action of the Government or the Prime Minister that the conference was held before the legislation has been passed, because it had passed through the House of Representatives and it had been floated in ibis chamber. For the information of the honourable senator, it cannot be amended in this chamber because it is a subsidy Bill. It can be amended only in the House of Representatives by message from the Governor-General, which simply means of course that it is only the Government that can amend the Bill. But the intention was of course, for the Prime Minister, through the activities of the Government - the numbers racket of democracy - to pass the Bill before the deputation arrived. Here are the words of the Minister for Immigration and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  who handled the Bill in the House of Representatives on behalf of the Treasurer: 
The Bill has been in the House for a reasonable period to allow all of the normal representations to be made and, as a consequence of the most careful and comprehensive investigation to which 1 have referred already, we believe that the Government must press forward with the legislation despite what the honourable member has suggested. 
It was deliberately intended to dispose of the matter before the views of the industry and the Western Austraiian Government could be heard. I repeal that it was no fault of the members of the deputation that they did not meet the Prime Minister before the legislation was presented to the Parliament. 
The assistance to be given by this Bill will end in 1973. The total subsidy for the period of about .18 years of its operation will be about S36m, or about $2m a year. The industry is very grateful for the assistance that has been given in the past, but it has not been sufficient to make ihe industry buoyant. It has served to keep the industry afloat. People in the industry had to prove that a certain cost structure existed before they could get any benefit from the subsidy. The Minister Assisting the Treasurer also stated that there is a shortage of labour in the industry. That has come about because under the system of assistance given by the Commonwealth Government there has been no security of employment in the industry. Because of that situation, workers have looked for other avenues of employment. They have moved out of the mining industry into other industries. The Minister exposes his lack of knowledge of the industry in saying that the gold mines have unfilled vacancies and that there are plenty of opportunities offering for men in nickel mining exploration. In the view of the Government it is likely that any men displaced from the gold mines will be absorbed in that field of employment. 
Let us have a look at the position of the nickel raining industry. Despite all the speculation and pegging of leases that has been going on in Western Australia, there is in fact only one nickel mine of consequence in that State. Western Mining Corporation Ltd is the only company that is developing a nickel mine. Its mine is at Kambalda, about SO miles south of Kalgoorlie. lt is the only nickel business employing any quantity of labour. It is true that Great Boulder Gold Mines Ltd and North Kalgurli (1912) Ltd are producing a small tonnage from Carr-Boyd Rocks and that an eastern States company is producing a small quantity of nickel at Nepean. Despite the rest of the stories about the nickel mining industry, there is not another nickel mine in Western Australia and there is not likely to be for at least 5 years because it takes that long to develop a nickel mine. Poseidon has been said to have the best prospects and it is probable that it will do better than Western Mining Corporation Ltd is doing at Kambalda. But Poseidon has not yet decided how to finance the development of its mine. It is useless for ihe Minister to say that any loss of employment in the gold mining industry will be compensated for in the nickel mining industry. We do not know yet whether we will have a nickel mining industry. Although Poseidon has a promising show at Windarra, we do not know whether that company will be able to raise the capital it needs to develop the mine. 
Honourable senators will be aware that Windarra is about 150 miles north of Kalgoorlie, almost in the desert. There are no services or ready means of access to Windarra. The mine there will be a very costly venture to develop. The Minister and his advisers show that they know very little about the mining industry when they talk about the nickel  industry  providing employment for people who move out of the gold mining industry. The problem goes somewhat further than that. Although the number of miners who would be displaced if the gold mining industry closed down is not very large - about 3,500 workers - in all at least 15,000 workers who are engaged in servicing the industry and supplying the industry are dependent upon it. Some of those people will remain in Kalgoorlie until such times as the railway is put through from Kalgoorlie to Kambalda because Kalgoorlie will be the servicing centre for Kambalda. But immediately the railway line is put through, as the State Government intends, Kalgoorlie will no longer be the servicing centre and will practically close down. 
I ask honourable senators to consider what will be the result of the substantial closure of Kalgoorlie, which is the largest city in Western Australia outside the metropolitan area of Perth. If Kalgoorlie closes down the people will have one place only to go in order to seek employment and that is to the metropolitan area. Immediately they move in there they will have moved out of houses that they occupy at present. They will go into the metropolitan area where they will be in competition for housing with people who are there already. They will go into competition with all the people in the metropolitan area for all the community services such as water supply, sewerage, roads, education and health services. All these things are available in Kalgoorlie at present, but the workers who leave Kalgoorlie and move to the metropolitan area will necessitate these services being duplicated to provide for them. It would bc a cheap proposition for the Government to continue to pay a reasonable subsidy to the gold mining industry to allow it to continue. The Minister and his advisers say that the nickel industry will provide employment, but it will not do so for 5 years at least, lt takes about 5 years to develop a mine. It would pay the Government to keep Kalgoorlie open for 5 years to enable the nickel industry to become established, if it is going to be established. 
There are other factors in favour of keeping the gold mining industry open until such time as some other industry in the area can provide employment for the workers. One of the chief reasons is that the gold mining industry provides a training ground for miners. Mining is very skilled work. Many people who have not worked in mines may not think that this is a skilled occupation, but I can assure them that it requires great skill. I remember that in the depression days, when there was an influx of unskilled workers into the industry, fatal accidents were occurring every day because of the inexperience of workers. Experienced workers are required for the industry to operate efficiently and there must be a training ground for them. If there is not, there will be no nickel industry for a good deal longer than the 5 years I mentioned earlier as being the time required to develop the industry because it takes more than 5 years to train the necessary workers. The Government should be looking into this aspect instead of allowing the gold mining industry to phase out gradually. We hear a lot said about the boom in the mineral industry in Western Australia but most of the activity there relates to the iron ore industry which does not require miners, lt may require a few workers with ability to handle explosives, but most of the operation is in open quarries where the skills of a miner ure not required. If we are to enter into new underground mining operations we will find that we will be short of the skilled workers required. A greater burden will be placed on any new industrty unless provision is made for training skilled workers. 
The Minister also said that in addition to this subsidy the Government had allowed taxation concessions to the gold mining industry. It is true that the profits of the gold mining industry are tax free. The owners of the mines do not pay tax on the profits they make. However, the workers in the industry and those employed in the service industries have to pay income tax. It is not right to say that the Government would lose the benefit of that income tax if the operations at Kalgoorlie were to close down because the workers would have to find employment elsewhere and thus continue to pay income tax- They might pay more or less depending upon where they got employment If these men remain in the gold mining industry the Government will continue to receive income tax from them approximating the amount that it pays out in subsidy. It still will not receive company tax. It would not cost the Government a great deal more to pay the amount of subsidy sought by the industry. 
Many people think of gold purely in terms of currency but it is used for many other purposes in the world today. For industrial purposes it is used by the ton, not by the ounce which is generally the measurement in which we think of gold. 
Australia naturally will require gold for industrial purposes. Until 1968 905 tons of gold had been used for jewellery, 84.5 tons had been used by the electronics industry, 93 tons had been used for dentistry and 75 tons had been used for coins. A further 41 tons had been used for miscellaneous purposes. If the gold-mining industry is to be phased out, how long will it be before we become an importer of gold? At present we use approximately 450,000 ounces of gold for industrial purposes, and as the population increases so that amount of gold will increase. Kalgoorlie is producing only 600,000 ounces of gold. Nevertheless that would tide us over for a few years if the industry were kept in operation solely for industrial purposes. If we were put in the position of having" to import gold for industrial purposes it would cost us about $19m a year, provided we were able to buy it at the present price for free gold on the London market of $35 an ounce and on the basis of 450,000 ounces a year. That calculation does not take into account any increase in the industrial use of the commodity. 
In his reply to the second reading debate the Minister made the following pertinent statement: 
In his reply the Prime Minister indicated that legislation to renew the subsidy was already before the Parliament and that he could hold out little hope that the Government would be prepared to amend it at this stage. In that correspondence the Prime Minister mentioned that the subsidy legislation would expire in less than 3 years and the situation would be reviewed by the Commonwealth before that time. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  previously had informed the Chamber of Mines of Western Australia that he had no objection lo its request to make a further submission before the expiry of the 3-year period should any change of circumstances make this necessary. 
That is not what the Minister said in his second-reading speech when introducing the Bill into the Parliament. On that occasion he said: 
The Government has decided that continued assistance is justified in order to allow the present gold-mining activity in Kalgoorlie to continue to phase out gradually without disruption to the population and the economy of the area. 
There is probably no gold or anything else good in Queensland, and if  Senator Georges  thinks that this is a joke, 1 can assure him that 20,000 people in Kalgoorlie do nol agree with him. 
I could have a shot at you too. 1 remind you that this is one of the primary industries, but so long as the gold miners do not vote for the Country Party you arc not interested in whether the industry is kept going. 
A lot of rubbish? We are well aware that you have never shown any interest in the industry yet it is one of our primary industries. I have quoted the statement made by the Minister assisting the Treasurer when replying to the secondreading debate in the House of Representatives! It is not known whether it is the policy of the Prime Minister to review the subsidy, but I suppose the Treasurer is the boss in this instance and he said that he had no objection to a further submission before the expiry of the 3-year period should any change of circumstances make that necessary. The gold mining industry would have difficulty planning ahead on such vague terms. It is not an industry in which decisions are made from day to day. It is an industry in which decisions as to the type of development and form of treatment which will take place underground, the machinery which will have to be employed and the period for which the machinery will be used have to be made over a period of 5 or 10 years. The Government believes in short term planning. It does not believe in long term planning. The result is that the Government expects the gold mining  industry, which is not  a short term planning industry, to make short term plans. It may be that the Commonwealth Government will not heed an application for further assistance until 2 of the 3 years have passed. This gives no security whatsoever to the industry and to the people who are employed in it. 
I think it is time the Government sat down and had a look at the consequences of its action in refusing to give this industry the assistance it has asked for over a reasonable period of time. It is not reasonable for the Government to say that it proposes to review the subsidy in another 3 years. Three years would be a reasonable notice for the Government to give the industry to close down, because a mine can be closed down in that period in such a way that it can be reopened at some later date. The industry can then make up its mind whether it wants to continue the mine in a caretaker capacity. However, if a mine is allowed to be flooded with water it is' unlikely that it will ever be reopened because once the timber has become waterlogged it is very difficult to dry out and be made secure again. 
It would be of some assistance to the industry if the Government were to give it some assurance that it will look at the position within a reasonable period of time, but no mention is made of a review in the legislation. Some mention of a review was made in the other place by the Minister when closing the debate. The debate may have forced the Minister to make some sort of a compromise. As far as 1 know, the Prime Minister did not hold out much hope to a deputation which he met of a review of the subsidy within a reasonable lime. I do not want to labour the question, but I do want to impress upon the Senate that many of Kalgoorlie's 22,000 people will have to move out of Kalgoorlie within the next 3 to 5 years unless an alternative industry provides work for them. They will have to move to the metropolitan areas and work in jobs for which they have not been trained. Many of them will have to take on labouring jobs because they can do nothing else. These people will be moving into areas where there is competition for housing and essential community services. All these facilities are available at present in Kalgoorlie but they will be lost to the community because they are not things which can be picked up and transported from one place to another. The Government should be looking at the gold mining industry as it looks at certain sections of primary industry. It should be looking at Kalgoorlie as a community, 375 miles from Perth, which requires to be sustained. 
Well, it is a national responsibility. 
One of these days I will see the honourable senator stand and talk about Commonwealth and State financial relations. Then he might know why it is  a  Commonwealth responsibility and not a State responsibility. I would remind the honourable senator that every ounce of gold mined in Australia belongs to the Commonwealth and not to the States. No-one is allowed to buy it; it belongs to the Commonwealth, in order to overcome some of the difficulties in earlier years when the gold mining industry was in trouble the gold had to be sold to the Commonwealth and then bought back by the companies so that they could sell it on the open market. But whatever way we look at it, it is the Commonwealth lhat instituted the subsidy in the first place and took the responsibility for keeping the industry going. If  Senator Greenwood  wants to say that the Commonwealth has no more responsibility- 
lt has not increased the subsidy: it has left it exactly as it was at $8 an ounce. The industry asked for a 50 per cent increase to $12 an ounce but .he Government refused to increase the subsidy. Whoever has the responsibility, someone should accept the responsibility in view of the disruption that this will cause to the residents of the gold fields. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Has the Joint Committee of Ministers for Mines agreed to amendments to sections 9 and 101 of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-1968; if so, when was the agreement arrived at. 
Has the Joint Committee of AttorneysGeneral agreed upon the terms of the aforesaid amendments; if so, when was the agreement arrived at, and is it a fact that the Parliament of the State of South Australia enacted amendments to its corresponding legislation in November 1969. 
Have any other States of the Commonwealth enacted or agreed to enact amendments in similar terms to those enacted by South Australia; if so, when was such action taken or is it likely to be taken. 
Was the unilateral action taken by the State of South Australia in conformity with the spirit and intent of clause 6 of the Agreement relating to the exploration for, and exploitation of, petroleum resources: if so, why has ten months elapsed without any action being taken by the other States and the Commonwealth. 
 I rise to participate in this debate with a little bit of sorrow because I have just listened to the most fatuous lot of drivel I have ever heard from a senior Minister of the Government. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said that price control is not the answer. He spoke knowing full well that a form of price control is in operation in the community today, but the Government will not attempt to relieve that price control in any way in favour of the housewives of Australia. The Leader of the Government criticised  Senator Murphy  for not producing an example. To give one T intend to quote from the annual report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices for the year ended 30th June 1970. At page 10 paragraph 2. IS it states: 
The depression of the 1930s, and war time price control, led to many of the price fixing agreements still current and to the pre-disposition of many businessmen to agree prices with their competitors. Common criticisms of price control by governments are that it constitutes undue interference with business freedom, and tends to produce uniformity and to damp down competition. These may be valid criticisms, if the comparison is between government price control and competition. 1 emphasise the word 'competition'. The report continues: 
Often, however, it is not competition, but industry agreement on prices, that has replaced government price control, which was at least known to the public. 
So that we do in fact have price control.  Mr Bannerman,  the Commissioner of Trade Practices, has drawn attention to it. Therefore, it is no good saying that we do not have price control. I do not say that a fair method of price control would be the answer to all of our problems but it would be the answer to a lot of them. The Leader of the Government said that no Labor government in the States has introduced price control. This is true. But a State Labor government would not do so because price control needs to be introduced at a national level and not within an individual State, otherwise it creates problems in that State, particularly in regard to section 92 of the Constitution. No State will introduce price control on its own. The Government knew before it passed the restrictive trade practices legislation that the States would not agree to pass complementary legislation.  Sir Henry  Bolte warned the Commonwealth that he would not do it, and if one State stands out that means the end of price control. 
Earlier this year a survey of prices was made in Western Australia by Professor Drane who said: $69 puts you on the breadline in Perth. 
At the time Professor Drane was making this survey the minimum wage in Western Australia was $42.30. The report of his remarks continued: 
Families need a take home pay of $69 a week to maintain average living standards. 
If he is correct, most of our one breadwinner families might be better off scrambling for handout crusts in Djakarta. 
To take home $69, a married man with 2 children must earn just over $80 and claim family allowances week by week . . . The basic wage of $36.45 for men and $27.88 for women should be regarded as fatuous. 
That is what Professor Drane said. Now let us see what Professor Wheelwright of the University of Sydney had to say. He has been reported in this way: 
Australians were 'better off in 1960 than they are today in the distribution of wealth, according to a Sydney economist. 
In almost every category, wage earners in the lower groups have not kepi up with the others.  says Professor E. Wheelwright of Sydney University's Faculty of Economics. He made the point in. Sydney this week after completing an Australiawide survey on costs of living. 
One of the important aspects emerging from his research is a distinguishing line between living standards and living costs. 
It can be seen that for some time there has been concern with rising prices, not only by ordinary people but also by those who take an interest in things of this kind and are able to conduct surveys. While workers are trying to get some industrial justice the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  addressing a dinner at which the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission was present, warned the Commission that the economy could not stand wage rises. A couple of weeks later the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  on the eve of the hearing of the national wage case made an attack upon rising wages.  Mr Bury,  the Treasurer, also warned about wage inflation. But not one of those gentlemen referred to profit inflation, which is what we have in this country today. 
If you look at the returns of the various companies in Australia von will see that the profits of all of them are increasing. This applies particularly to hire purchase finance companies, the blood suckers who are on the people all of the time. They are the ones who are making the big profits. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer admitted that the cost of living had increased by 5 per cent, that wages had increased by 7 per cent and that profits had increased by 14 per cent. Yet no attempt has been made to control profits. 
The Minister said that there was an attempt to control liquidity within the economy, and he mentioned interest rates which were increased in the final quarter of the last fiscal year. What is the use of applying brakes to an economy which can immediately pass on any increases in interest rates? What happened with regard to land values? The increased interest rates were absorbed immediately in the price of land. What happened to the young people who were paying interest on long term loans to enable them to get a home of their own? The interest rates were increased immediately on loans which had been made some years before. They had budgeted to meet certain commitments over the year but the increase in interest rates forced them to adjust their budgets. How can they adjust their budgets except by reducing their standard of living? Yet that is the kind of control which the Government claims it is imposing. Who got the benefit of the increase in interest rates? None other than the estate agents and the land merchants. They collected the increase by shifting it on to the price of land, and they earned a profit on top of that as well. That is the kind of business practice for which this Government stands. 
The Minister chided the Australian Labor Party for voting against a tax measure which purported to reduce the taxation burden on the community to the extent of $228m. A survey of the reduction in income tax and a survey of the increase in indirect tax reveals that the community will benefit to the extent of only about $30m, not $22Sm. This is another one of the confidence tricks that the Government attempts to put over the people. At any rate, who got the greatest benefit of the change in the tax scale by applying an across the board reduction in tax of 10 per cent on incomes up to Si 6,000 a year? That is the so-called middle income group which the Government set out to assist. The lower income group did not get the benefit because those on the minimum wage had their tax reduced by 50c a week while those on the so-called average wage - I do not know who gets the average wage because there is no average worker - had their tax reduced by $1.50 a week. However the man receiving a salary of $16,000 a year had his tax reduced by $9.61 a week. That is the way in which the Government claims that it is assisting the people of this country. In fact it is doing nothing to assist them. 
The maximum reduction on salaries up to $16,000 is $500 and then it starts to fall off up to S32.000.  Senator Rae  should have another look at the scale, and if he cannot read it I will read it for him. The Minister said that wages have increased more than prices have. Of course wages will increase more than prices because wages are always lagging behind prices. They have to catch up all the time. There is no question of the chicken and the egg in this, as those who want to examine it will know. Wages have to chase prices all along the line. 
 It is all right for  Senator Young  to interject but he can have his say later. If anyone examines this matter in an impartial way he must know that wages have to chase prices. Prices must go up before workers can lodge claims for increased wages. A meeting of consumers concerned with increased prices was held in Melbourne earlier this year. It is reported that the meeting called for an immediate price freeze. There has not been any price freeze, and there will not be while this Government purports to support free enterprise. Where is free enterprise? There is not any free enterprise. Is the worker allowed to sell his labour at the price that he can get for it? Of course he is not. The Government has controlled wages but it will not control prices. Elimination of income tax on the minimum wage was proposed when it was $42.30 a week. Uniform legislation is required to eliminate false packaging and deceptive advertising. Has the Government done anything useful to solve those problems which face the community? No. They are all part of free enterprise. Television is used to put over false advertising, to hoodwink people into believing that they are getting more for their money than they actually receive. The cost of television advertising, which is very expensive, is added to the selling price of the goods that the people have to buy. If the advertising of cigarettes, oil and detergents on television was stopped, the television stations would all go broke. The people are forced to pay these costs. 
It is a disgrace that this Government has allowed the economy to get into its present state. In the last quarter of the fiscal year, when the economy was putting on its own brakes, the Government found it necessary to introduce measures which it claimed would break down liquidity. This is the false and inflationary process to which the Government subscribes. I support the motion moved by  Senator Murphy. 
Tonight the Senate has had the advantage of hearing quite a lot from honourable senators who have spoken in this debate. The discussion has revealed the teething troubles through which the Estimates Committees are passing. One would have expected teething troubles. I am a little regretful that those troubles were not rectified a little earlier. The whole business was rushed. One of the things that concerns me is that this year we are having a very short Budget session because of the approaching Senate election. Next year we will have a clear run, without elections. The following year the Budget session will again be short because a House of Representatives election will be conducted in that year if the Government survives for that length of time. 
The difficulty referred to by  Senator Bishop  in getting the information back before the Committee of the Whole for further examination by senators who were not able to take part in the hearings of the committees will be apparent in 1972 and again in 1973, as it was this year. The difficulty will arise again in 1973 because another Senate election will be held in that year. 
Therefore 1 think the Government has to study the timetable of sittings of the Senate to determine whether we should start earlier or sit later, or whether elections should be held at another time of the year. One of the teething troubles that should have been drawn to the attention of the Government relates to the fact that the whole of the estimates of expenditure of a department should be under examination by an Estimates Committee. Documents A and B were the only documents before the  committees.  Honourable senators will appreciate that departments incur quite large expenditures that did not come up for examination by the committees in those documents. 
I suggest to the Leader of the Government in the Senate that he should consider the suggestion that all the financial matters associated with a department should come before the Estimates Committee dealing with that Department. If the system adopted this year is continued it will be found that while the estimates of a department are being considered by an Estimates Committee, the major expenditure associated with that department is being considered in another committee room. I refer particularly to the civil works programme. This involves huge expenditure and honourable senators may want to know why certain works are being carried out and why others are not. We cannot attend two Committees which are sitting at the same time. None of us can be in two places at once. My colleague  Senator Bishop  raised the question of rents paid by the Department of the Interior on behalf of all departments. He thought also that these rents should be related to the particular department being examined by that Committee. 
I am regarded as being a dissentient from the final sentence in the last paragraph of the report presented by  Senator Marriott.  Mv reasons for dissenting from the inclusion of those words are quite simple. 
 I expect that a copy will be placed in your box. I do not think the matter dealt with has anything to do with the Committee of which I was a member. The simple fact is that the resolution was for all the affairs of the department to be brought before the one committee. It is a matter for the Government to decide whether the works estimates, for example, should be examined with the estimates of a Department as set out in Document A and Document B. It is for the Government to decide whether this is practicable or not. It may be that they should be examined by the Public Works Committee. Another question is whether they should be examined in this chamber when the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) is being considered. These matters are for the Government to decide and not for the Committee. 
The division of expenditures of a department was one of the teething troubles - and a very important one - faced by the Committee of which I was a member. I endorse all the remarks made relating to accommodation, particularly so far as public servants and the public are concerned. Parliament House is a public place. Meetings of this Parliament are supposed to be public and the public should have access to its proceedings. Under the system by which we worked the public was unable to get access to the Parliament. This is no fault of the committee system. The Government should get on with building a new Parliament House or at least build a wing onto this one to provide for committees. After all, the Estimates Committee system is the brain child of the Government, not the Opposition. If the Government wants to pursue this brain child it should be doing something about accommodation. Having made those remarks,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I endorse the report brought down by  Senator Marriott. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry advise the Senate of the number of awards operating in the rural industries that provide for a 40-hour week and the number of workers who would be affected by each award? 
The Navigation Bill (No. 2) 1970, which is before the Senate, replaces a Bill which was passed in March this year. To that Bill the Senate gave a life of 6 months and it expired on 18th September. It is noted that the suggested amendments which were made at the time the original Bill was passed have been incorporated in the Bill which we have before us today. This Bill is to make provision for and in relation to preventing and dealing with the effects of pollution by oil of the Australian coast, Australian coastal waters and Australian reefs. Action to prevent the spillage of oil is fairly difficult except in cases like the 'Oceanic Grandeur' whereit was possible to pump the oil into another vessel and take it away. But in' the case of serious marine accidents prevention is almost impossible. It is absolutely necessary that facilities be provided for cleaning up the oil or the prevention of any further pollution. Whilst the Bill does not deal with this situation it is pertinent to ask the Government: In these circumstances what kind of detergents does the Department of Shipping and Transport have available? Are they the right kind of detergents? When I speak of detergents I include dispersals. 
There is no difference but the trade thinks there is. The honourable senator would be aware that these are trade names. Like a lot of other commodities they are deceptively packaged. 
That may be, or the Australian Country Party. I put these questions to the Government. What research has been carried out as to the effect of thu various detergents on the various kinds of oil in order to find out which is the most effective? What is the effect of the use of the various detergents? Will the detergents be more harmful than the oil which is spilt? What is the effect of the detergents on the surface marine life and has it the same effect on the submarine life? If suitable detergents are available what quantity do we have? What facilities do we have for their manufacture in large quantities7 What research has been carried out on their toxicity? If suitable detergents are available are we satisfied that they are at strategic centres around the coast? Has any research been carried out to find the most strategic places to stockpile supplies? Have we learned any lessons from the disasters in other parts of the world? I ask this because it is well known that in the 'Torrey Canyon' disaster the detergents used were more harmful than the oil which was spilt. What did we learn from the Santa Barbara channel disaster? Have we sent any observers to any of these places to see what the facts are? 1 know that the Queensland Government sent one of its engineers to Santa Barbara quite a long time after the disaster had occurred. We have not seen any report from that officer as to what knowledge he gathered. Do we still think that a disaster cannot happen here despite the close shave we had with the 'Oceanic Grandeur' in Torres Strait? lt would be interesting to learn whether as yet we have become a party to the International Convention of 1954 and the amendments of 1962. I refer to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil. I might also ask whether the Commonwealth has settled its differences with the States or whether we are to have a repetition of the conflict that occurred between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Goverment as to who should or should not control the spillage from the 'Ocean Grandeur. What facilities have we available, if we have the detergents, to disperse them? Have we control over the necessary ships, the necessary pumps, the necessary aircraft, and perhaps helicopters or other means of spreading dispersants or detergents to break up spillages of oil? I think this is the kind of question that the Government has to answer. It has to find ways of doing these things so that the object of the Act, which deals with the effects of pollution by oil, may be achieved. All these things are required for that purpose. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill and hopes that it will achieve the purpose for which it is designed. 
1 can fully appreciate the argument advanced by  Senator Wright  as to clause 4 being within die constitutional ambit of the Commonwealth Parliament. Paragraph (g) of clause 18 (1.) does make some sense if read in this way: to make arrangements for the sale ... of wool received by a broker for sate at auction that the Commission considers cannot advantageously be offered for sale at auction and for the processing of any such wool before sale. 
The query I raise now is this: As the objects of the Bill are limited to the Constitution, and as the Commonwealth Government has no power with respect to manufacturing, does this require an arrangement with the States? If it requires an arrangement with the States, has there been any negotiation with the States? Have there been any attempts to make an arrangement with the States for that purpose? 
 I have read the functions of the Commission set out in partIII of the Bill. I think that many of the matters that are mentioned in partIII, with which I shall deal later, are beyond the powers of the Commission, because the powers of the Commission are set out in another clause further on in the Bill. But in any case subclause (2.) of clause 4 creates a complete estoppel on the Commission performing a function if it is beyond the objects of the Commission or in respect of a matter in relation to which the Parliament can pass laws, and of course the Parliament cannot pass laws with respect to the manufacturing industry. It may be able to make funds available to a State to enter manufacturing. The Commonwealth can of course in the Territories perform the function of manufacturing, but not throughout Australia generally. I suspect that subclause (g) of clause 18(1.), to which the 
Minister referred, sets out a function that is beyond the objects of the Commission as set out in clause 4. 
 I do not think deleting the last line would cure the position, because the objects of the Commission are limited to promoting the sale of wool and to securing prices not subject to undue fluctuations or irregularity and at levels appropriate to the competitive position of wool in the world markets. 
-I want to invite attention to clause 4, which sets out the objects of the Australian Wool Commission, because during the debate this afternoon some honourable senators on the opposite side of the chamber talked about the Commission being able to enter into the manufacturing industry, particularly with respect to tops. Clause 4 sets out the object of the Commission as follows:   . . to promote trade and commerce with other countries and among the States in Australian wool to the advantage of Australian wool growers and the Australian economy by means directed to encouraging and facilitating the purchase of Australian wool for the purposes of, or in the course of, that trade and commerce, and at the same time securing, in respect of wool purchased for the purposes of, or in the course of. that trade and commerce, prices that are not subjectto undue fluctuation or irregularity and are at levels appropriate to the competitive position of wool in world markets. 
So the only object the Wool Commission will have will be to promote Australian wool at prices that are not subject to undue fluctuation or irregularity and at levels appropriate to the competitive position of wool in world markets. Subclause (2.) of clause 4 limits the Commission to that object. It states: 
The Commission shall not perform its functions or exercise its powers except for the purpose of achieving the object specified in the last preceding sub-section or for another purpose in respect of which the Parliament has power to make laws. 
So the Commission will be limited to the object that is set out in clause 4(1.), and it may not enter into any other matter for which the Parliament has power to make laws. The discussion we had this afternoon about the Commission being able to enter into the manufacturing industry was misleading in view of the objects as stated in clause 4. Therefore I ask the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  whether he can explain how the Commission could enter into the manufacturing industry under those objects, because, as I have stated, sub-clause (2.) of clause 4 provides that the Commission may not go further than the object stated in clause 4(1.). 
Clause 14 provides that the Minister may remove  a  member of the Commission from office by reason of misbehaviour or physical or mental incapacity. The last 2 qualifications for removal are, of course, quite understandable, and so  is  misbehaviour, if one knows what misbehaviour means. 
What is up with you? If you want to have a sleep, go home. 
I invite the attention of the Committee to clause 18(1.)(i) which provides that the functions of the Commission include the following: to maintain records of persons carrying on the business of purchasing wool from wool growers outside the auction system and to obtain from such persons information of such kinds as the Minister approves: 
I question the Minister whether the provision should be in the Bill; whether negotiations have been conducted with the States; whether it is within the responsibilities conferred by the Australian Constitution for the Commonwealth Parliament to approve this provision without complementary State legislation. It seems to me that if this provision is approved as it stands it will be ultra vires the Constitution without reference of powers by the States to the Commonwealth. What right has the Commonwealth to enter a State and to demand from persons carrying on the business of purchasing wool, operating within the auction system, their records and information of such kinds as the Minister approves? 
What does the provision mean? Does it mean that the Minister can ask for details of the everyday activities of a person so engaged? I can find nothing in the Constitution that authorises the Minister to act in that manner. Surely this is a transgression by the Commonwealth Parliament of the liberty of citizens to perform commercial activities within the States without interference from the Commonwealth Government. If there have been any negotiations or consultations with the States on this matter and it is proposed by the States to pass complementary legislation, the Senate should be so advised. Otherwise, we should be very careful of our responsibilities in agreeing to include a provision of this nature in Commonwealth legislation. It would leave the legislation open to challenge by any person carrying on business of the type 1 have described. Immediately the Minister or any of his officers, or theCommission under its function as a Commission, asks for information in the circumstances I have outlined, the legislation will be open to challenge. Is this the type of legislation we should be passing in this Parliament, in the full knowledge that we will be transgressing the Constitution? The consequences extend even further. 
Consideration interrupted. 
 I hold in my hand a copy of the Australian Wool Commission Bill presented to the Parliament by the Minister who misrepresents the primary industries. It is perhaps the worst piece of legislation that has been presented to Parliament since this Government assumed office on 10th December 1949. I hope that the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who is handling the Bill on behalf of his colleague, will be prepared to explain to the Western Australian wool growers that this Bill will be of benefit to them, that it will prevent them from being driven off their farms, and that it will improve the conditions of people on farms and of people who are dependent on farms and who live in rural areas.  Senator Maunsell  made a very profound statement shortly after he commenced to speak. He said that this industry should not be thrown to the wolves - the Australian Labor Party. I remind the honourable senator that the ALP, by the introduction of the BAWRA scheme - the British Australian Wool Realisation Association Ltd - saved the wool industry during the First World War. The ALP also saved the industry and set the pattern for what could be done by the introduction of the JO - the Joint Organisation - scheme during the second World War. Not one wool grower would deny that. If anyone here denies that, let him do so. 
Last night at Katanning, which is the centre of a large wool growing area in Western Australia, a public meeting was held. The hall was overflowing. The growers were most irate at the information they had received about the Bill, as published by the media of public information. That is why I challenge the Minister for Air to go to that area and justify the Bill.  Senator Maunsell  said also that he hoped that the amendments which would be presented by my colleague,  Senator Wilkinson,  later in the debate would not be the same as those that were presented in the other place, because they were very weak. This may be so. I am not arguing whether they are weak or strong, but I do say that the Bill is drawn in such a manner that it is impossible to amend it in any effective way. Anyone who knows anything about politics knows that it cannot be amended in any material way. 
The first criticism that I have of the Ba is that the Australian Wool Commission will be a voluntary organisation. In other words, it will be unable to acquire the Australian wool clip and to sell it on behalf of the growers. No-one will be bound to make his wool available to the Commission. The Bill perpetuates the existence of the private buyer, the broker and the auction system. That is done for a particular purpose. I do not want to talk much about the Bill now because I will have a good deal to say at the Committee stage. The Bill also perpetuates the financial structure of the private banks and the stock firms in that it allows the Commission to borrow from them or even from hire purchase companies, to finance its operations, at whatever rates of interest those organisations care to charge. 
It may be of interest to those who have not taken an interest in this problem over a good many years to know that quite recently the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  went to Japan to try to talk to the Japanese about contract buying of the Australian clip. He did not talk about reserve prices or about collusive buying in Australia. He talked to the Japanese about contract buying. In 1951 the Government of the United States of America offered to enter into a contract with the Australian Government to buy the Australian wool clip at 100c per lb. Had that contract been accepted that is the price that the Australian wool grower would be getting for his wool today, because the contract was to extend for 20 years. 
But what was  Mr McE  wen's answer? He said that it would destroy the auction system. The Government is bent on perpetuation of a system of exploitation of the grower. It is not interested in the grower; it is interested only in those in big business. 
We are constantly being told that there is no collusive buying of the Australian wool clip. Those who say this should read the report of a royal commission which was conducted in New South Wales by  Mr justice  Cook. The royal commission proved conclusively that there were all sorts of pies operating within the Australian wool auction system. When the wool industry asked for a single marketing authority the European Common Market countries said that there should be the greatest flexibility possible in the sale of the Australian wool clip. The Japanese have said that there should be no interference with the free sale of the Australian wool clip. To combat collusive buying I think that there should be collusive selling. But there can only be collusive selling if the clip is acquired and marketed by an Australian authority on behalf of the wool growers of Australia. However, the Government will not face up to this fact. 
The only wool which the Australian Wool Commission will acquire is the 40 per cent of the Australian wool clip which goes under the PAP - price averaging plan - scheme, but the PAP scheme has already been discredited throughout Australia. 
 It has been discredited. It has done nothing to lift the price of wool. One has only to look at the information made available by the mass media to see how prices have been falling and small lots have been grouped together so that the buyers are able to buy on the basis of the price of the worst bale and not the best. This practice has been described in the newspapers. Articles have been written about how the lots are put together to reduce the price of wool.  Senator Young  should not kid himself that the PAP scheme has done anything for the grower because it has not done anything and it will not do anything. I do not know why this scheme has been included in the provisions of this Bill. It will not solve any of the problems of the wool growers. 
Honourable senators on this side of the chamber believe that, ineffective as it may be, the Australian Wool Commission should be allowed to commence operations as soon as possible. Perhaps it will do some good. However, I do not think that it will. I do not believe that it will do anything effective. Nevertheless, some of my colleagues seem to think that it will have some effect. We do not believe in stifling anything which may give some support to those people who are trying to make a living, such as the 40,000 wool growers who are alleged to be living on an income of $2,000 a year or less. If something can be clone to assist them we will facilitate its introduction. However, I do not believe that this Bill will assist them. 
Over the years many millions of dollars belonging not only to the growers but also to the public have been spent on the promotion of wool. In fact, 3 small bales of Australian wool - each about 4 inches high - were sent around the world with  Sir Francis  Chichester. They were locked up in the hold of his vessel. This is an example of the sort of promotion on which we have spent millions of dollars, but there has not been one bit of research into the marketing of wool. The thing which has to be looked at is the marketing of wool. Markets have to be found for our wool. Millions of dollars have been spent - another $27 m has been made available this year - on promotion, but up to this point of time not one penny has been spent on research into marketing. I am not complaining about the money which is made available to the wool industry. I refer to such things as the $27m which will be made available this year for promotion, the $1.5m which will be made available for testing and the $90m which will be made available for the setting up of wool complexes as well as the $11 5m which will be provided under this Bill and the $18m which will be provided for the administration of the Commission. But I do complain about how it' is spent. It should be spent for the benefit of the growers, but I do not believe that it is being spent foi their benefit. I do not believe that there should be an open ended contract with respect to the public purse of Australia. No country can afford to make an open ended contract. 
 Let the honourable senator choose his own words. I said that there should be a compulsory acquisition scheme. 1 did not mention anything about a reserve price. 
 I am making this speech. I will inform the Senate in a little while about what the Australian Labor Party proposes in regard to a reserve price. I do not believe that the industry will have a future unless money is spent in a wise manner. Not only will the Commission be given $90m for the construction of wool complexes but it will also be given all of the land which the Australian Wool Board owns throughout Australia, which is quite considerable. This was transferred by way of legislation which went through the Parliament earlier in the session. 
What has been the effect of the fall in wool prices? Farmers are walking off their properties. Some of them are staying and are endeavouring to eke out a living for themselves and their children, but many of them have to move off their farms. For every farmer who leaves a district 3i families leave the adjacent towns. The rural centres throughout Australia are being denuded by the inactivity of the Government. I would say that it is due to the collusive action of this Government because there is no doubt in my mind that when a referendum was held 5 years ago with respect to a reserve price the Government did not support the idea of a reserve price. When  Sir William  Gunn was stumping this country advising growers not to support the referendum for a reserve price- 
 This is true and the honourable senator knows it. It is absolutely true. This Government backed  Sir William  Gunn. It did not want to provide assistance to the Australian wool industry at that time. It is only because there is a Senate election in the offing that the Government comes in with some measure of support for the wool industry. The sands of time are running out for Vietnam and Australia's external affairs policy; another election issue has to be found. This is it. The Government is trying to get the wool situation on to the electoral market. Law and order would not float for it and the 35-hour working week controversy will noi float for it. Even with the assistance that it might get from the media of public information, it will not float. The Government has to find another issue and this is the one it is trying to float to bring back to its support the people it has deceived for the past 20 years. 
 I read a heading in a newspaper the other day,  Senator, which  said that the Empire of Jack was being disbanded. 
1 think the honourable senator knows to whom I refer. The policies of the Government for the rural industries are falling apart. All that Government supporters can think of at any time to help the rural industries - and I do not quarrel with it - is more and more subsidy. 
1 said that 1 did not complain about it, but it does not provide the answers for the industry, and the honourable senator knows that. Putting a bit more in the barrel does not touch the basic problems of the industry. When it comes to workers' wages the Government tells them that they cannot take more out of the barrel than they put in. It talks about productivity. But when the farmers are unable to produce sufficient to keep themselves alive they dip into someone else's barrel. 
Not at all. 1 am criticising your policy because it does not go to the basic problems of the industry. You are too lazy to carry out proper research to find remedies for the rural industries. When Government supporters sit down to talk to the farmers and to ascertain their problems so that they may be properly researched and cures found, they will become members of a respectable political party. Not until that happens will they become respectable. 
 I am proud to belong to it. 
I am proud to belong to it and 1 regard myself as respectable. 
If your brain was as big as your mouth you would be a genius. I warn honourable senators opposite that the Government is denuding the rural areas of their population. People go on to farms not only to earn a living but also to follow that way of life. People who go to live in rural towns do so because they want to live there. The policies of this Government are forcing them to migrate to the cities. What happens then? They immediately leave their homes in the country and enter into competition for homes with everyone in the cities. They come into competition with all the people in the cities for all the community services such as roads, power, water supplies, hospitals and schools that already exist in the centres they have left. What is the Government doing to keep them in the rural centres? Nothing at ail. I believe that on 21st November the Government will find the answer in the ballot box. 
The Australian Labor Party proposes the establishment of a statutory authority which would be responsible for the acquisition, appraisal, marketing and distribution of Australia's annual woo) clip, lt would be located in decentralised and modern wool marketing complexes in an effort to keep people in the rural centres. Wool would be appraised and catalogued by competent appraisers under the jurisdiction of the authority in the short term, with rapid progression to pre-sale testing by objective measurement and equivalent scientific techniques designed to improve, standardise and streamline the preparation and sale of the clip. We propose that a minimum reserve price would then be placed on all wools. Those lots not realising the floor price, either by auction, tender or private treaty, would be taken over by the authority at a price which may be equal to or less than the floor price, depending on the circumstances. 
The physical and economic problems associated with the production and handling of wool are becoming more evident as the cost price squeeze continues. In order to encourage continuous innovation with respect to wool production and land use, domestic transport efficiency - the Government has just increased the price of all diesel fuels - wool handling and distribution, and pre-sale testing, development funds by grants and loans will be made available to the authority, the Slates and wool producers. 
It is part of the Australian Labor Party's wool policy. 
If you want to move that T table it, I will table it. 
Nothing is sensible to you once you move out of the milk market in the Melbourne area and your timber mill. You know nothing about this industry. You sit there to misrepresent the country people and you live in the metropolitan area. The value of farmers' holdings is falling far faster than their accumulated debts. What does the Government propose with respect to long term finance? What is the long term plan of the Government to assist the industry? It does not exist. We would provide funds at reasonable rates of interest in order that farmers would be able to stay on their land. 
 The rate of interest would be that which this industry could bear. 
lt  would be less  thar  the 15 per cent that  the  Government proposes to be paid by the Australian Wool Commission when  it  borrows funds from hire purchase and finance companies. It would be much less than that. That is the saddle that you propose to put upon the wool growers of this country - money borrowed at 15 per cent to run the Commission. Our proposal would be very much better. My time has run out. I shall have a lot more to say at the Committee stage of the debate,  lt  has been noted that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has said that the setting up of the Australian Wool Commission would probably lift the price of wool by 20 per cent. I point out to Government supporters who may be optimistic enough to believe that estimate that if it were true the price would be lifted by 5c per lb and growers would receive 34c per lb for their wool. Does any honourable senator who has grown wool believe that it can be grown for 34c per lb? If so, it is time he bad another look at the industry. The big scale grower might grow wool for that price, but the wool grower with a small property - the man who is the backbone of the industry - cannot grow wool for that price. 
J want to support the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson.  Sub-clause I seems to me to be peculiar in that a member with the approval of the Commission may appoint his own  deputy,  providing he is not a member of the Board, and at any time he may revoke that appointment. I would have thought that considerable attention had been given to sub-clause (4.) of clause 7. It has been passed. It states: 
A member referred to in paragraph (d) of subsection (1.) of this section shall be a person specially qualified for appointment by reason of experience in the marketing of wool or wool products, in the processing of wool or in the manufacture of wool products or by reason of other experience in commerce, finance or economies and, before appointing a person to be such a member, the Minister shall consult the Australian Wool Board. 
Sub-clause (1.) of clause 11 brings about an absurd situation in that a member has the 

 Commission Bill 1807 right to appoint a  deputy,  with the approval of the Commission. The  deputy  does not have to have an qualifications to act in the place of the member. Under sub-clause (4.) of clause 7 the Minister will make the appointment of the member only after consultation with the Australian Wool Board. Sub-clause (1.) of clause 11 makes no provision for the Commission to consult anyone. The appointment of a  deputy  is made with the Commission's approval. The Commission does not have to consult the Wool Board or ask it whether the person who is to be appointed a  deputy  of another person is a suitable person within the terms and qualifications of sub-clause (4.) of clause 7. The appointment might be for a considerable length of time. 1 believe that the Minister must accept responsibility for the appointment of members of the Australian Wool Commission. The Minister is the only person who is responsible to Parliament and the only person who can be questioned and brought to order, if necessary. I do not imply anything by that statement. Part of the responsibility of being a Minister is his liability to be brought to order by Parliament if things go wrong. The Minister can lose complete control of the activities of the Commission if the Government allows deputies of members to be appointed by members, with the approval of the Commission, and not after consultation with the Australian Wool Board, which advises the Minister on the appointment of the member. A  deputy  can be appointed completely contrary to the wishes of the Board. He might be appointed for quite a period of time. Therefore 1 think that not only in justice to the Australian Wool Commission but also in justice and fairness to the Minister the word 'Commission' should be deleted and the word Minister' inserted. 
Tonight we have witnessed the spectacle of two members cf the legal fraternity trying to turn this debate into a party wrangle. I can assure the Minister that the amendments which the Australian Labor Party puts forward are put forward with sincerity and that they should not be labelled as Socialist aims of the Labor Party. We are clearly endeavouring to be constructive in our amendments. 
 Senator Greenwood  may have his opinion. I am trying to advise the Minister that we are a responsible, not an irresponsible, Party. There are some irresponsible people on the Minister's side of the chamber. My main objection, even to the member appointing his own  deputy,  is that there is no necessity to comply with the conditions that are provided in clause 7 (4.). If the Commission is formed within the terms and condi tions set out in clause 7, I would say that it will be a very respectable sort of a Commission to handle the mighty task which it has to perform. It seems that the intention of the draftsman and of the Government is to appoint to the Commission 7 members who it is thought are the most highly qualified men to do this job. 
It is suggested that it should be left to the member to find his own  deputy,  and that the appointment of that  deputy  should be approved only by the Commission. Let me take that suggestion right to the point of the ridiculous. Five members are required to form a quorum of the Commission. Questions before the Commission will be decided by a majority, that is, by 3 members. The member asking for the appointment of a  deputy  could be one of those 5 members. He could be one of the majority of 3 members who made the decision about the appointment of his  deputy.  Therefore he could make his own appointment. I say that this possibility should be completely removed. 1 do not accuse anyone of being corrupt or in any way dishonest, but we are dealing with human beings and with the weaknesses and frailties of human nature. 
The Commission will have an unlimited amount of finance at its disposal, lt has open sesame to the Australian purse, subject only to the approval of the Minister and the Treasurer. For a start, it has access to $133m of public funds. I think that the Opposition is not being unreasonable when it asks that the person who is responsible to the people and to this Parliament should be the person who approves of the appointment of a deputy. 
In view of what  Senator Little  has said will the Minister say whether a member may be removed from the Commission should he fail to attend 3 consecutive meetings at which he was represented by his  deputy  approved by the Commission. This raises a new argument with respect to the Commission itself. My understanding throughout my experience on any sort of committee is that if a member is represented at a meeting by an approved  deputy,  or proxy it counts as an attendance by the .principal person. I would like the Minister to say whether this applies to the Australian Wool Commission. If it does not, the 7 experienced members of the Commission will not be young men. Quite a span of their lives will have slipped by while they become experienced to the extent that is necessary. This relates particularly to the provisions contained in clause 4. 
These men will be subject to illnesses. They will be only part time members of the Commission. They will not be full time members. They will have the responsibility of earning a livelihood in some other occupation. It may well be that these men could be attending to their own affairs outside Australia for considerable periods of time and will require a deputy to attend meetings in their place during their absence. If for this reason members can be removed by the Minister after they have failed to attend 3 meetings, we will very soon run out of qualified men to appoint to the Commission. 
He is not responsible for the approval of the  deputy.  I think that we cannot bring the Minister into it through this sort of back door approach, by suggesting members of the Commission will get leave from the Minister to be absent so that they can appoint a  deputy.  This is trying to bring the Minister in through the back door. I do not believe that any responsible Minister would allow himself to be used in that way. I ask the Minister for his interpretation of the position when a  deputy  - we are not talking about a member whose appointment is approved by the Minister - attends in place of a member and that member misses 3 meetings. In these circumstances will that member be disqualified by the Minister? 
I wish to draw attention to clause 12. 
Clause 1 2 provides:  (1.) Members and deputies of members shall be paid, out of the funds of the Commission, such remuneration and, in the case of the  Chairman,  such annual allowances (if any), as the Parliament fixes . . . 
Up to there, that is fair enough. The provision is made 'as the Parliament fixes'. However, the clause continues: 
. but, until the thrity-first day . of December, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, the remuneration and annual allowance (if any) shall be as prescribed. 
Well, it is going to be prescribed after this Parliament has risen. It will be prescribed by regulation under the Act. This Bill will be passed before we rise. It will receive the approval of the Governor-General and come into force. After that, a regulation will be made which will prescribe the remuneration and allowance, if any, that are to be payable to members of the Commission. 
I do not know - and I think there is not anyone else who knows - when the Parliament will meet in the new year for the autumn session. But, in any case, the regulation will run until that time plus a further 15 siting days which, as this Parliament is operating, means about 5 weeks before the regulation prescribing this remuneration and allowance must be con tinued in operation or disallowed by the Parliament. So, the prescribed remuneration and allowance, if any, will apply for that period. If the Parliament meets at a reasonable time, say, towards the end of February next year, it could be the middle of April before the regulation prescribing the remuneration and allowance is considered by the Parliament. For this lengthy period, the remuneration and allowance, if any, that are fixed become somewhat permanent. A precedent is created when this amount is paid for a period of 6 months.I would say that if for some reason or other the Parliament when it comes to the fixing of the remuneration and allowance in 1972, and not before-- 
Well, they will not expire on 31st December. The Parliament will not be sitting on that date. 
In any case they will run until 31st December 1971 that is, the day before 1972. I take your point, senator. These amounts will largely influence this Parliament in fixing remuneration and allowances. I would have thought that there would be some attempt by the Government to inform the Committee of the remunerations and allowances that it intended to pay these people. The Government will not get these men for peanuts. We know that the Government will not get for nothing the qualified persons provided for in the Bill. The Government will have to pay these people. Not only will this work be taking up their spare time, but also it will be taking up time that they otherwise could be using to earn money. They will have to receive just and fair compensation for their work. 
I think the Government should give some indication of what it intends to prescribe in the regulations for their remunerations and allowances. There are enough open doors and open ends in this Bill as it stands without adding more to them. I think it is unfair for the Minister to introduce a Bill of this nature which allows for remunerations and allowances to be fixed by the prescribing of regulations. The Government has to remember that the remuneration and allowances for the top people in the Australian Wool Commission will have some bearing upon the remunerations and allowances for those employed by the Commission. We must remember at all times that the employees of the Commission have no tribunal to fix their salaries, and allowances if any. The salaries will be fixed by the Commission. That is a further objection I have to allowing the remunerations and allowances, if any, under clause 12 to be running loose without some information being given to the Committee at this time. 
I support the amendments moved by  Senator Wilkinson.,  in particular the amendment proposing the inclusion of the words 'or his  deputy'.  Sub-clause (3.) of clause 10 reads: 
The  Deputy Chairman  or the member appointed to act as  Chairman  under the last preceding subsection has. when acting as  Chairman,  all the powers, functions and duties conferred by this Act on the  Chairman. 
The chairmanship of the Australian Wool Commission will be a very responsible job for anyone to perform and the Minister, in referring to the qualifications of the  Chairman,  set down very stringent conditions which had to be complied wilh. 1 am not so concerned about clause 16(1.) (a) which states: 
being the  Chairman,  engages in paid employment outside the duties of his office; 
Honourable senators will remember that the  Chairman  is the only fully paid member of the. Commission. 
 I had a look at clause 16 (5.) earlier. That clause applies only if the  chairman  fails to comply with his obligations under the next succeeding subsection. Clause 16 (1.) (c.) provides: 
is absent, except on leave granted by the Minister, from three consecutive meetings of the Commission; 
That is fair enough, but a lot of damage can be done in 3 meetings of the Commission. The condition imposed by clause 16 upon the  Chairman  is that he does not engage in paid employment outside the duties of his office. 1 find that principle difficult to apply to the  Deputy Chairman  because the other members of the Commission from whom the  Deputy Chairman  would be drawn are part time members. They would be engaged in some form of employment or would be of independent means. Clause 16(l.)(b) states: 
becomes bankrupt, applies to take the benefit of any law for the relief of bankrupt or insolvent debtors, compounds with his creditors or makes an assignment of his remuneration for their benefit; 
Clause 16 (1.) (d) states: 
fails to comply with his obligations under the next succeeding sub-section. 
The Australian Labor Party will attempt to amend the next succeeding sub-section. Sub-clause (11.) concludes with the words:  the Minister shall, by notice published in the Gazette, remove the member from office. 
The conditions to remove a member of the Commission from office as outlined in clause 14 are quite different from the conditions to remove a Chairman from office which are outlined in clause 16 (1.). The Minister proposes to appoint a Deputy Chairman to whom these conditions shall not apply. If he is a man to whom the conditions outlined in clause 16 (1.) (b) or (d) could apply the Minister cannot remove him from office because these conditions do not apply to the Deputy Chairman. 
 The Minister says that they do. but the Bill does not provide that they do. This is one of the reasons why the Opposition wants to include in this clause the person who is appointed a  deputy.  Whilst the Minister draws attention to clause 1 6 (1.) (c) 1 invite his attention to clause 10 (3.) which is also pertinent. The exception is clause 16(5.) to which the Minister invited my attention. Sub-clause 5 reads: 
The preceding provisions of this section (other than paragraph (c) of sub-section (I .) ) apply to and in relation to a deputy of a member in like manner as they apply to and in relation to a member. 
That does not apply to or in relation to the  Chairman.  Sub-clause (5.) has no relation to sub-clause (1.). It applies to a member. Clause 10 sub-clause (3.) states: 
The Deputy Chairman  or  the member appointed to act as  Chairman  under the last preceding sub-section has, when acting as  Chairman,  all the powers, functions and duties conferred by this Act on the  Chairman. 
That raises for consideration the distinction between a member as such and a member when acting as  Deputy Chairman,  ls he the  Deputy Chairman,  is he replacing the  Chairman,  or is he still an ordinary member of the Board? If he is still ordinary member of the Board sub-clause (5.) of clause 16 may apply to him. But if he becomes the de facto  Chairman  sub-clause (5.) does not apply to him. For that reason the Opposition says that the sub-clause should apply to the  Deputy Chairman.  The insertion of sub-clause (I.) (A) which we proposed in our second amendment provides that: 
II' a member or his deputy has direct managerial or policymaking responsibility in any wool broking or wool-buying firm in Australia or elsewhere, the Minister shall, by notice published in the Gazette, remove the member or his deputy from office. 
We say that it is a reasonable proposition that the member or bis  deputy  should not have managerial or policy making responsibility. One does not know where this might end or where the member's loyalties might lie. We are all human. None of us is different. It is very difficult to find out at times where loyalties lie. If the member or his  deputy  has direct managerial or policy making responsibility it is likely that his loyalties may become divided. We wish to ensure that this position does not arise and that a member is not placed in the position where he will have to find out whether his loyalties are to the Australian public, the Australian economy, the Australian Wool Board or to the wool broking or wool buying firms. We must remember at all times that he is only a part time member of the Commission, not a full time member.  His  direct pecuniary interests are with the wool buying or wool broking firm of which he is a manager or in which he has policy making responsibilities. 
The Opposition wants to insert this amendment because it thinks that it is only fair to the Australian public, to the Australian Wool Commission and to the member who is appointed. We do not think that he should be put in the invidious position of having to make up his mind on where his loyalties Ite. The third amendment that  Senator Wilkinson  moved was to delete the words: otherwise than as a member of, and in common with the other members of, an incorporated company consisting of not less than 25 persons. 
What is behind this figure? Some of the most influential incorporated companies have less than 25 persons. We think that, if a member has an interest in a contract made or proposed to be made by the Commission, he should disclose to the Commission at a meeting of the Commission the relevant facts and the nature of the interest. It must be remembered that he is not making a public disclosure of his interests because subclause (3.) states: 
A disclosure under the last preceding sub-section shall be recorded in the minutes of the Commission and the member - 
shall not take part after the disclosure any deliberation . . . 
I find nothing in the Bill that states that the minutes of the Commission shall be made public. They are the property of the Commission and would be made available, I would think, to the Minister under another section. No business secret will be divulged when the member makes a disclosure of his interest in any contract made or proposed to be made by the Commission. We feel that the proposition that we put to the Government with respect to members of the Commission is a reasonable one. It protects not only the Commission but also the members of the Commission. The Government places responsibilities upon members of the Commission, particularly the  Chairman  and the  Deputy Chairman.  The selected members of the Commission at all times are in very responsible and very awkward positions as they try to administer things on behalf of Australian wool growers and with advantage to the Australian economy. I think it is quite unfair for the Government to expect people to put themselves in positions of this kind. They should not be expected to be in such positions. For those reasons, I support the amendments moved by  Senator Wilkinson. 
I am grateful for what the Minis ter has put forward but he referred me to the definitions clause of the Bill. I invite his attention to clause 16(6.) which states: 
If a member is appointed Chairman of the Commission, he ceases to be a member otherwise than as Chairman and. if the deputy of a member is appointed Chairman of the Commission, he ceases to be a deputy. 
Here is seems to me that there is some conflict of definition in clause 5 which states that a 'member' means a member of the Commission and includes the  Chairman.  Just what is meant when we have that definition of the  Chairman  and then in clause 1 6 (6.) the Bill states that he ceases to be a member otherwise than as Chairman? lt seems to me that sub-clause (6.) attempts to distinguish between a member and the  Chairman,  whereas in the definition clause the  Chairman  is only a member of the Commission. 1 think a closer examination of this  aspect  is necessary. A member who holds some shares in a company would not necessarily be dismissed if he disclosed his pecuniary interest. Proposed sub-section (3.) states: 
A disclosure under the last preceding subsection shall be recorded in the minutes of the Commission and the member - 
shall nol take part after the disclosure in any deliberation or decision of the Commission wilh respect to the contract; and 
shall be disregarded for the purpose of constituting a quorum of the Commission for any such deliberation or decision. 
This provision does not mean that a member would be dismissed or removed because he disclosed a shareholding, whether it be small or substantial; it means that he shall not take part in a contract made or proposed to be made by the Commission nor shall he form a quorum for the purposes of deliberating on that contract. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that, according to the AugustSeptember timetable issued by Trans-Australia Airlines, there is a scheduled flight direct from Melbourne to Perth departing from Melbourne at 8.30 p.m. flight No. 516). 
On Friday 21st August 1970 did that flight not depart fromMelbourne until 11.30 p.m. 
Was the delay in the departure caused by an excess of passenger traffic in Eastern Australia on that day. 
Did the excess passenger traffic make it necessary for Trans-Australia Airlines to use all of their available aircraft to move this traffic before the expiration of the curfew hour of11 p.m. in Eastern Australia. 
Can Western Australian passengers expect that in the future their travel arrangements and times of departure will be subordinated to the requirements of travellers in Eastern Australia, governed by the requirement to conform to the Government's restrictions on the movement of aircraft in Eastern Australia. 
Can the Minister give any reason why those travellers booked on Flight 516 on Friday 21st August were not advised of the delay in departure time. 
In order to prevent any further inconvenience of this nature to Western Australian travellers, when is it likely that a curfew will be introduced in Western Australia. 
When the debate was adjourned on Friday, I was questioning the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  with respect to Part III, clause 18(1.)(i), which states that the functions of the Commission include:  to maintain records of persons carrying on the business of purchasing wool from wool growers outside the auction system and to obtain from such persons information of such kinds as the Minister approves; 
The provisions of this sub-section would fall outside the objects of the Australian Wool Commission as stated in clause 4 of the Bill, and is clearly without the ambit of the Commonwealth Constitution. Therefore I have requested the Minister to give some information as to whether there is any arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States for the implementation of this paragraph.I also question the propriety of it. Even if an arrangement were made between the States and the Commonwealth it would be an interference with the liberty of the individual to conduct his business in the manner in which he thinks fit. The phrase 'to maintain records of persons' means that the Wool Commission will finish up with a dossier on each and every person in wool buying. I refer here to the private buyers. The paragraph further states:   to obtain from such persons information of such kinds as the Minister approves; 
In effect, this is putting into the hands of the Minister the widest possible power without giving any redress to the person who is carrying on the business. I think the phrase 'as the Minister approves' amounts to a complete interference with the freedom of the individual and should not be in a Bill of this kind. If this provision remains, the Minister will be limited in no way to information about wool. Despite the fact that the purpose of this Bill is to set up an Australian Wool Commission, if the Commission were allowed to collect 'information of such kinds as the Minister approves', it would amount to a complete interference with the liberty of the individual. Under the so-called free enterprise system every time that we in this place try to obtain information about private enterprise we are told that to provide such information would be an exposure of business practices. But that does not seem to worry the supporters of free enterprise in this instance. They are prepared to run the rule over any buyer engaged in the wool industry. Whatever may be his trade practices, whatever may be of advantage to his opponents in the venture in which he is engaged, this information must be made available to the Wool Commission if the Minister approves of its being made available. 
We have referred to the types of persons who may be on the Commission. The qualifications required of the 'three other members' are worth repeating.I will not go into the qualifications required of the other 5 members. The 'three other members' are required to have experience in commerce, finance or economics. This means, of course, that an endeavour will be made to secure for this Commission the top businessmen in the industry. At the same time all of the business information concerning any of the buyers who come within paragraph (i) of clause 18 (1.) will be disclosed tothem. But more importantly I think it is a step outside the Constitution. It is a step outside the objects set out in clause 4 of the Bill. In my opinion the Government should give. some explanation of what is intended or of what negotiations have been carried out with the States to implement clause 18 (1.) (i). 
I now refer to clause 18 (1.) (k) which provides that the functions of the Commission include:  with the approval of the Minister, to participate in negotiations with respect to charges associated with the marketing of wool, including freight rates.  1 ask the Minister whether this .includes negotiations on overseas shipping freight rates or whether it is only in connection with internal freight rates. If it is to include negotiations about overseas shipping freights, is the Australian Wool Commission to supersede the body which is presently negotiating with the conference lines on behalf of shippers for freight rates which apply to goods generally and which include wool? Is the wool shipping section to be taken away from that body and put in the hands of the Commission to negotiate shipping freight rates under this paragraph? If it is, will the Commission favour the Australian National Line in negotiating freight rates for the shipment of wool, or are we to be left in the hands of the conference lines? 1 refer also to clause 18(l.)(n) which provides that the functions of the Commission include:  to operate a scheme for the voluntary registration of wool-classers;  1 understand there is presently a scheme for the voluntary registration of wool classers. In fact, much of the wool sold at auction today is marked with the classer's name. Honourable senators will find that frequently wool is bought on the basis of the mark of the classer. While I think this is quite a good scheme I think it should be something more than voluntary. People should know who is classing the wool and the types of classers that we have, because I believe that the position regarding classing is one of the main reasons why the price of wool is fluctuating so much. The human element in the classing field cannot be avoided. With some thousands of classers classing wool on stations and other places the human error is magnified. If all classers were registered everyone would know the quality of the classing and there would be a much more uniform grade of wool on the floor. I say that, subject to what I support; that is, the methods of wool testing, wool appraisement and selling on sampling which I hope will come into use as a result of the passing of this legislation. 
I support the first amendment which was moved by  Senator Wilkinson.  Forgetting all about the Minister's second reading speech, it seems to me that the original intention of paragraph (a) in clause 19 was that the reserve price would be fixed each day but, having seen some danger of mistakes being made and the reserve price which is fixed for the day being either too high or too low, the words 'or as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary' were added as a saver to allow the Commission to rectify any mistakes which may be made. As the clause stands at the moment it is mandatory for the Commission to fix a day to day reserve price. I believe that this contains some dangers for the wool producers because we are still dealing with the brokerage and auction systems and collusive buying. I do not want anyone to deny that there is collusive buying because it has been amply proved that there is. Whilst there is the mandatory provision that the reserve price shall be fixed from day to day, by a system of collusive buying the buyers are able to force down the price today in order that the reserve price for tomorrow will be low. 
If the words 'from day to day or' are taken out and the words 'as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary' remain operative, uncertainty will be raised within the auction system. Buyers will not know when the Commission is to fix a reserve price. There is no advantage to them in forcing the price down today to get a lower reserve price tomorrow because the Commission may not fix a lower reserve price tomorrow.-. It may not fix a reserve price at all tomorrow. It may leave the orginal reserve price standing, knowing that there has been some monkeying with the auction system. I believe that the amendment we propose would act in favour of wool producers, lt would tend to give the wool producers much fairer and better control over the commodity they produce. 
Whilst the mandatory provision for a day to day price exists the producers will be placed completely in the hands of the brokers and the auction system. I stress to the Minister that in fairness to wool producers there should be a flexible reserve price scheme. We do not complain about that. Flexibility should rest with the Commission. The Commission should have a discretion as to fixing a reserve price. At present no discretion is left with the Commission. Later I will argue that there is no discretion with the Commission at all. I shall submit an argument on that score when we are discussing another clause. As this clause now stands discretion is taken completely away from the Commission to be able to manipulate or operate within the auction system. lt does seem important that this should not be such a secret sort of arrangement. We do not know in what way the reserve price is to be known. We do not know who will be on the floor to buy in on behalf of the Commission if the wool being sold does not reach the reserve price. It is hardly conceivable that after the market has been operating for a couple of hours, people who have been a long time in the business of wool buying will not know what the reserve price is. It will be quite easy for these expert people to deduce what the reserve price is. They will make arrangements according to whether they want to buy at that reserve price or want to leave the wool there and get a lower price established in order that there will be a lower reserve price the next day. 
Wilh respect to the flexible reserve price I think that the words 'from day to day or' should come out and that the period of fixing of a reserve price should be left within the discretion of the Commission. In common with many other people I have received a lot of telegrams and telephone calls about this Bill to set up the Australian Wool Commission. I wish to read a telegram that was sent not. to me but to 

 Mr Maisey, the honourable member for Moore. It is addressed 'Maisey, Parliament House, Canberra, ACT, and states: 
Appears no trading reason for continuing fall in wool. NSW grazier statement concerted trade depressive action seems correct Consider WA Country Party should immediately move urgency motion to prohibit export wool under average 40c and Government put buyer in market Believe wool would sell readily at 45c so no ultimate cost to Government. 
I notice that  Mr Maisey  did not take part in the debate in the other place on this Bill, despite the fact that the telegram 1 have read was sent from a large meeting of wool growers and was expressing the opinion of a large section of wool growers in Western Australia. I appreciate that in this Parliament a member is not able to take part in debates on all matters brought to his attention by people. However,  Mr Maisey  is very interested in the rural industry. Probably he is the most knowledgable man in this Parliament on the subject of wheat. Nevertheless, when he received the telegram from a large section of wool growers in Western Australia he did nothing about it. That is a pity, lt seems to me that he should have passed the message on to other members of the Country Party in  Western  Australia to move an amendment. 

 Senator Wilkinson has moved a second amendment to add a further paragraph. The purpose is to ensure that if the Commission buys wool at the appropriate reserve price it will make arrangements that the grower whose wool is bought is paid within 14 days. There are many reasons for this proposal. In the present depressed state of the wool industry at least SO per cent of the growers are in debt to banks or to stock firms, or have growing indebtedness with hire purchase companies. They must pay interest on those loans. If they have borrowed from stock firms the wool no longer belongs to them because they are forced to sell it through the stockbroker from whom they borrowed money. Until they can pay off all or part of their indebtedness they must continue to pay interest. The longer that the Wool Commission retains their money after selling their wool, the more that the interest debt on the borrowed money becomes. 
It is only fair that the wool grower should receive payment for his wool within 14 days. When we are dealing with the next clause with regard to the price averaging plan I will be arguing this proposition of payment to the buyers, but in this case the Commission has bought the wool in from the wool producer, the Commission holds it for a while and then sells it at a price which, according to the market, is either greater or Jess than the price paid for it. Even so, the wool having been bought in by the Commission, the grower should receive payment for it at the earliest opportunity. We regard 14 days as the maximum time that it should be outstanding. The grower should not be accumulating interest on indebtedness for more than 14 days when he has a capital asset available to him. The Wool Commission should make the money available to the grower within that specified time. The Bill does nothing about that. It is left open. The fact is that the Wool Commission could hold a grower's money - I do not say that it would - for 12 months if it wanted to do so. 
The Bill does not say anything about it. I said that J did not think the Commission would do so but it could, if it wished, hold the growers money for that length of time. We think that our amendment should be accepted because it would then be mandatory for the Commission to pay the grower for his wool within 14 days, lt would prevent the wool grower accruing increased indebtedness as a result of interest payments. Our third amendment provides: 
At the end of paragraph (c) of sub-clause (f.j add 'at the best possible price'. 
I do not doubt that the Wool Commission would want to sell the wool at the bes possible price. Nevertheless the Bill is completely silent on how the Commission shall dispose of the wool once the wool comes into its hands. Our proposal would be a direction to the Commission. It would not tie the Commission in any way but if would be an expression of the opinion of the Parliament that the Commission should endeavour to obtain the best possible price. 
Under the terms of this Bill the sum of $U5m will be made available to the Wool Commission for the purpose of operating its reserve price scheme. That is a huge slice of public money. The Bill- is open ended. If the Minister and the Treasurer approve, a far greater amount can be put at the disposal of the Commission. Only 2 people have the right to say yea or nay, namely, the Minister and the Treasurer. We know that the Treasury is pretty tough where money is concerned. We are not so sure about the Minister. 
Order! The honourable senators time has expired. 
The Minister, in his reply, talked about flexibility and said that if the words from day to day* were taken out of the Bill it would be possible for the Commission to fix a reserve price that would run for 12 months. I agree with him. Maybe the reserve price should be fixed for 12 months. Maybe, in order to achieve some stability in the industry the period over which reserve prices will operate should be longer than from day to day. 1 wish to invite the attention of the Committee to sub-clauses (2.), (3.) and (4.) of this clause. I submit to the Committee that the fixing of a reserve price is not in the hands of the Commission; that it is taken completely away from the Commission. 1 do not want to read out sub-clause (2.), but I think it is necessary to read out sub-clauses (3.) and (4.). Sub-clause (3.) says; 
The Minister shall from time to time, after consultation with the Treasurer, inform  the  Commission in writing of the policies and principles which the Government of the Commonwealth considers should be followed and applied by the Commission in the operation of its flexible reserve price scheme- 
That simply means that the Minister for Primary Industry advises the Commission of whatever the policy of the Government  in  respect of a reserve price is and that, irrespective of all the experience that we hope will be in the minds  and  hands of the 7 members of the Commission. -the Executive will make a decision  as  to the policies and principles that the Commission should follow  in  fixing its reserve price. That is how I take it from the Bill. T may be quite wrong, lt seems to me that the decision of the Executive will be conveyed to the Commission by the Minister and that it is mandatory upon the Minister to do that from time to time. The Bill says: 
The Minister shall from time to time, after consultation with the Treasurer . . . 
So, it may be that the Executive will not come into it at alt, but that the Treasurer will come into it. These 2 people - the Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer - who perhaps will have no experience whatsoever in the wool industry, will be able to tell 7 of - we believe - the most expert people in the wool industry in Australia the policies and principles that they should follow in fixing a reserve price. Sub-clause (4.) takes it a little further,  Mr Chairman.  It states: 
Hie Minister may, on behalf of the Government of the Commonwealth, if he thinks it necessary to do so, give a direction in writing to the Commission with respect to the operation of the reserve price scheme of the Commission, and the Commission shall comply with that direction. 
So in the final analysis it is the Minister who fixes the reserve price. The Minister says that if we remove the words 'from day to day, or' the Commission could fix a reserve price that would run for 12 months. Is it likely that the Minister would approve continuance of the reserve price for 12 months unless he thought thai that was in the best interests of the industry? Of course it is not. 
I suggest that in any case the fixing of the reserve price is removed from the discretion of the Australian Wool Commission although this was one of the basic purposes for setting it up. If we turn back to read the objectives set out in clause 4 of the Bill we find that this really is what the Bill is all about. It is a voluntary acquisition authority or commission. Its main purpose is to bring stability to the wool industry by the fixing of a reserve price scheme in an endeavour to lift the price of wool in order that growers will be able to produce wool economically. This is the very basis for the Government setting up this Commission but in the final analysis the Government proposes to turn round and say to the Commission: 'You shall do what the Minister says with respect to the reserve price scheme'. The Government is saying that the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry will set the policies and principles and that if the Commission does not follow them the Minister will have authority to direct it in writing as to how il shall operate the reserve price scheme. 
Is anyone going to be deceived by this? ls any grower going to have any faith in a scheme when the Government sets out to impose all sorts of qualifications upon persons who may be members of the Commission? It wants to obtain the greatest expertise on the Commission that it can get. It is not very likely that the Treasurer would have any great experience in assessing the value of wool. He would have experience in money matters but hot in assessing the value of wool. He is to act in consultation with the Minister for Primary ' Industry. The Minister for Primary Industry may have experience of the dairy industry but know nothing at all about wool. Yet these two people, in consultation, will issue the policies and principles upon which the Commission shall operate wilh respect to its reserve price plan. 
I would expect that members of the Commission would be strong minded men. If the Commission believes that correct policies and principles relating to the reserve price scheme are not being carried on, according to their expertise, the Minister may direct them as to how it should operate the scheme. The value of the scheme falls completely if this overriding authority is imposed. The1 Minister is not even required to consult with the Commission to gain the benefit of its expertise before issuing principles and policies or before issuing directions as to the reserve price scheme. The value of the expertise gathered together in the Commission can be wiped completely aside and in the final analysis the Minister may direct the operation of the reserve price scheme and the Commission has to comply with that direction. 
I put it to the Minister that these 2 subclauses of clause .19 completely negate everything that has gone before in this. Bill. It completely disposes of the necessity for having a Commission. The Minister is not obliged to consult the Commission. He can take almost unilateral action with respect to a wool clip worth $800m and the livelihood of a large number of people within our community. If the Government puts this power into the hands of one or two men it can forget all about the Commission. I say that the scheme will not work if these 2 matters are retained. You might just as well forget everything that has gone before if you persist with this clause as it stands. There would be greater flexibility within the Commission if the words 'from day to day. or' were deleted from paragraph (a) of sub-clause (1.). 
I was amazed when I read sub-clause (3.) and (4.) and I am nol very happy about sub-clause (2.) which requires the Commission to make a report fortnightly. There will be an army of people making reports to the Minister and the Minister will need an army of people to study the reports. Reports have to be made upon the reserve price determined by the Commission, the wool purchased and held by the Commission, sales of wool by the Commission and perhaps offerings of wool by the Commission. This is mandatory and it has to be done every fortnight. No wonder it is going to lake $18m to administer the scheme. It will probably take double that amount in a full year. The amendments put forward by the Opposition are reasonable and sensible and the Senate should agree lo them. 
This clause, as I understand it, is designed to allow the Australian Wool Commission to take over the activities of the Australian Wool Corporation with respect to the operation of the price averaging plan. If this is not the intention of the clause I hope that the Minister will correct me. Clause 20 states: 
The price averaging plan operated by the Commission shall be a plan under which pools are established in respect of wool to which the plan applies by reference to the types of wool and the places and times of its delivery to brokers, and under which the persons entitled to the proceeds of wool included in a pool receive a return based on the average price per pound resulting from the marketing of the wool so included, being a plan of a kind similar to that operated before the commencement of this Act by the Corporation. 
As I understand the price averaging plan, 1, 2 and 3 bale lots are to be grouped and put into at least 4 bale lots and are to be typed as nearly as possible in order that there shall be some uniformity in the presentation of the wool on the woolfloor. This entails an increased cost and, as I understand it, the Government has agreed to make moneys available to pay half the increased cost. I believe that about $7m is provided for this purpose, although I do not know that the Commonwealth is limited to that amount if more is required. We must consider what the increased costs may be as a result of the price averaging plan. In Western Australia at present the associated brokers charge $1.25 per bale for interlotting and 2.3c per lb for bulk classing. This means that if the wool is interlotted it will cost the grower an extra 62½c per bale. If it is bulk classed it will cost him an extra $3.45 per 300 lb bale. Because of the additional clerical work that the broker will have to do it has been agreed that he will receive an additional payment of . 125c per lb or 38c per bale. The Federal Government has agreed to pay half the cost of this also. So the grower will be paying an additional 19c per bale. It has been stated that this is such a small amount that it is not worth worrying about. But this must be added to the interlotting charge to the grower of 62½c per bale.It means that the total charge has now risen to 81½c per bale. Instead of $3.45 per bale of bulk classed wool, the grower will now be charged $3.64. The plan becomes most remunerative to the broker because for every bale he can interlot he will receive $1.35, plus 38c, making a total of $1.63 per bale. In the case of bulk classing, he will receive $6.90 per bale, plus 38c, making a total of $7.28. 
While the Government continues to agree to pay half of those costs, the increased cost of the PAP scheme to the grower is $3.64 per bale. The price averaging plan has to increase the price of wool, and up to date it has not done so. As far as I have been able to follow the wool sales, the price of wool has been falling continuously. At the last sales, in Sydney the price increased by 5 per cent and in Melbourne by 2½ per cent, but in all other sales the price of wool has been falling. It follows logically that the price of the wool coming under the price averaging plan has been falling also. Yet the wool grower has to meet increased costs. The amount of wool that goes into the price averaging plan is quite considerable. In the season 1967-68 1-bale lots represented 30.2 per cent, 2-bale lots represented 15.1 per cent and 3-baie lots represented 8.4 per cent, making a total of 53.7 per cent of the total wool offered for sale. Perhaps those percentages in actual fact would not be as high as that because these would include special lots that would not go into the price averaging plan. So we are not dealing with a small quantity of wool when we talk about what comes into the PAP scheme. We are dealing with something in excess of 40 per cent of the Australian wool clip and 40 per cent of the earnings that this scheme is able to produce for the Australian people. 
From the literature I have been able to secure, it seems to me that the price averaging plan is a plan to benefit the brokers alone and not to benefit the wool producers at all. I propose to quote some of the literature that has been supplied to me to substantiate that belief. A pamphlet entitled 'The Wool Marketing Plan' reads: 
In addition to the above it would appear that the 'Tangerine Book', page 31, 'Additional Wool Handling' (ii) that the grower is lo pay the cost of this bulk-classing amounting to 2c per lb so thai to provide any benefit to the grower, it will be necessary to obtain an increased price from the buyer of at least 2c per lb for the elimination of (he I. 2 and 3-baie lots. In the case of a grower who is in debt to his bankers or stock firm it will also be necessary to include the interest which he will still have to pay on the 40 per cent balance of his wool which has been included in the PAP. . . . 
The grower gets only 60 per cent at the time of the sale: the other 40 per cent may be paid at any time. Again there is no fixed time with respect to the payment of the extra 40 per cent under the PAP scheme. The pamphlet continues: 
. but which amount he has not yet received. The saving of this interest would provide a further incentive to a grower who is in debt to his bank, to sell privately. This does not apply to a grower who is in debt to a stock firm because under the conditions on which he borrowed this money he is nol allowed to sell his wool other than through his stock firm so that he will still have lo pay the interest on that proportion of the money representing the 40 per cent unpaid by the PAP. On the other hand the grower who is nol in debt is going to lose the use of 40 per cent of his money for a period for all bis wool which lias been included in the PAP. 
This raises the question of the private buyer, because the private buyer pays cash and if the wool producer is free of indebted ness to a stockbroking firm he is able to sell his wool. If he has borrowed from the stockbroking firm and is in debt, the wool does not belong to him. But if he is in debt to someone else he will probably have some freedom and will be able to sell it for a quick return privately. He is not likely to want to put it into the PAP scheme, receive only 60 per cent of the value of the wool and have to wait perhaps for months for a return. While he is waiting for the extra 40 per cent of the value of his wool, he has to pay interest on the amount he has outstanding in debts. 
There was the case of 2 independent buying firms in Western Australia who sought to register wilh Wool Marketing Corporation Pty Ltd. They were the West Australian Woolgrowers Voluntary Cooperative Limited and Western Livestock. But they were refused permission to take shares in the Wool Marketing Corporation. They wanted to become part of this organisation so that they could carry on their business. They offered to the Australian Wool Board to form themselves into an association so that they could become shareholders in Wool Marketing Corporalion Pty Lid. The Wool Board refused to allow the independent wool brokers to become shareholders. A request was then made that the Wool Board permit them to have a non-voting observer on the Board. This also was refused. The finance for the PAP has been arranged through the Australian Bankers Association which has staled that it wishes to deal only with the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers. What has happened is that these 2 buying firms have been unable to get into the PAP scheme and have had to carry on with some private buying. This is the effect of the price averaging plan. It has done nothing to assist the growers who have had wool put. into the pool: it has increased the costs to those growers whose wool has gone into the pool; it favours the brokers, because they make more money as a result of the extra charges; and it encourages the private sale of wool. 
Iri my opinion one of the reasons why the reserve price scheme will not operate is because it leaves in the field the high content c-f private buyers who operate in the wool industry today. They are buying on forward orders. It is in their interest to keep the price of wool as low as possible. The lower they can buy on contract for overseas mills the greater the profit they are able to make.I know a buyer in Western Australia who had a contract to buy several hundred bales of wool on behalf of a firm in England. 
I will not detain the Committee for too long. The Minister has been critical. He is aware that there are over 2,000 different grades of wool. Much of the criticism of the price averaging plan has been that it is almost impossible to type the various small lots. The wool is bought on the value of the lowest grade bale in the lot. In this way, the industry claims, many of the growers are not getting full value for their lots of wool. Whilst the Minister may dispute what I say, my information comes from the industry. 
The Wool Industry Conference is not recognised by us as being the voice of the industry. I talk to growers - to the people who have to rely on the price they receive for their wool for a living. I do not know whether the Minister, noticed in the daily Press about a fortnight or perhaps 3 weeks ago, a photograph of a 3 bale lot that was offered. The types of wool in the 3 bale lot were illustrated and explained. The variation in the 3 bales was so great that it was impossible to type them. The buyer bought on the basis of the lowest quality wool in the lot. The evidence is available not only to me but also to the Minister if he wants to obtain it. 
The Minister says that the cost to the grower would need to increase by only lc per lb for the wool grower to be able to recover the increased cost as a result of the introduction of the price averaging plan. Am I. to take it that the other half, which the Commonwealth pays, is not to be recovered and that there will be no extra charge on the wool grower if the price . averaging plan lifts the price of wool by lc per lb? Is there no intention on the part of the Government to try to lift the price in order that the Government's half, the other $3.7m, will be recovered on behalf of the people of Australia? If the increased cost to both parties is to be realised, it will mean an increase of 2c per lb. If the scheme is to be any good at all or if it is to be of any benefit to the grower, the price has to be lifted by more than 2c per lb. If the price is lifted by 3c per lb, the extra profit as a result of the scheme will be only lc per lb. When one considers that wool is selling at 29c per lb and that the bulk of the growers believe that at least 40c per lb is required for them to be able to sell at the cost of production plus a reasonable wage for themselves as workers in the industry, one gets some idea of the depression in the wool industry and of the benefits that the PAP scheme will mean to the Australian wool producers. 
I support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Wilkinson.  I think that the Government should adopt the same attitude in respect of the Australian Wool Commission as it adopts in respect of the Australian Wheat Board. Advances are made available to the Australian Wheat Board by the Reserve Bank of Australia at the long term bond rate. Admittedly they are made available only for a period of 12 months, and earlier this year the Parliament had to pass amending legislation to extend the period because of difficulties in the wheat industry. Nevertheless the wheat industry is not saddled with whatever interest rates at which the Board likes to borrow money. In this case the Commission may, with the concurrence of the Treasurer, borrow money from an approved bank or from another lender. The Reserve Bank has some control over the banking system as to the interest rates charged, but in this instance the money may be borrowed from outside the banking system. 
Let us have a look at the definition of approved bank' in the Bill. It stales that an approved bank means a bank approved by the Treasurer for the purposes of the provision in which the expression occurs. But the Treasurer docs not have to approve of the other lender. He does not have to approve of a stockbroking firm which is lending money and he does nol have to approve of a hire purchase finance company from which the Australian Wool Commission may borrow money. He has no control over the interest rates at which the Australian Wool Commission may borrow money for its purposes. The Opposition believes that the Reserve Bank of Australia is the appropriate lending authority for a venture of this kind, particularly when we consider that$115m of the public's money is being put into this scheme to get it off the ground. The Government may not put in any extra money. It may instead tell the Commission to go and borrow the extra money it requires from whoever is prepared to lend it. 
Lending money to the Australian Wool Commission will not be a bad proposition. Sub-clause (3.) of clause 22 states that the Treasurer may, on behalf of the Commonwealth, guarantee the repayment of amounts borrowed in accordance with subclause (1.) of this clause and the payment of interest on amounts so borrowed. In other words, the Australian Wool Commission has an absolute right to borrow money, with the concurrence of the Treasurer, for the purposes of its business with the public purse of Australia underwriting the borrowing and the. interest to be paid on such borrowing. Whichever way one looks at this Bill one finds that it is an open ended Bill on the purse of the people of Australia. 1 appreciate that the Depart.ment of the Treasury is pretty conservative and keeps a fairly watchful eye upon the economic situation in Australia and that in order to obtain the concurrence of the Treasurer to borrow one has to put up a substantial case. Nevertheless some pressure will be exerted upon the Treasurer to make finance available or at least give his consent to the borrowing of finance for the purposes of finance for the purposes of this Bill. The only thing he has to watch is that he is responsible for underpinning the moneys borrowed plus the interest to lie paid. 
The Opposition believes that if any benefit is to flow from the activities of the Australian Wool Commission with respect to moneys borrowed and interest paid it should flow . to the people of Australia through the Reserve Bank because the people are underpinning the activities of this Commission. That is one of the reasons why the Opposition has moved this amendment. The second reason is that it thinks that the Reserve Bank is the appropriate bank because it is able to operate on the long term bond rate whereas outside lenders ' do not do that. This makes the money which the public has to provide much cheaper for them to provide. There would not have been so much objection to the inclusion of this provision if it had referred only to an approved bank because the money would have been kept within the banking system and, because of the powers of the Reserve Bank, we would have had some control over the interest rates charged on the money borrowed. But the inclusion of the words 'another lender' throws the public purse of Australia open to everyone, particularly when the loan is guaranteed by the Treasury. This is one of the reasons why the Opposition says that this amendment should be carried, lt is an amendment which should commend itself to the chamber. After ali, this Bill is because of its effect on the economy for the benefit of the people of Australia and not just the wool growers. Therefore the scheme should be supported by the people's bank - the Reserve Bank - and the Commission should not be allowed to go outside the reserve banking system in order to provide profits for other types of lenders. 
 I would like to  refer  to Division 430 and the proposed expenditure of $1,500 for the Returned Services League of Australia towards fares of delegates to National Congress. I understand that the conference is to be held in January or February next year and that delegates will come from the various States to attend the conference. There will be 2 delegates from Western Australia, and the Prime Minister's Department has provided them with a return rail ticket. One of the delegates has advised me that owing to the school holidays at that time of the year, trains from Western Australia to eastern Australia are completely booked out, and that they have been unable to book a passage on the railways. There has been a request that the Prime Minister should provide an air fare in order that the delegates may travel to the conference which I think is being held in Melbourne. On behalf of these delegates I put this request to the Minister: Because they are not able to secure a passage on the railways, will the Department consider providing an air fare so that they can attend the conference? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) (10.57)  -  As the honourable senator will appreciate, I cannot give an answer to that request, but what I can do - and I certainly promise to do it - is to extract what he has said from the record and take it myself to the Prime Minister for consideration. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Proposed expenditure - Department of the Cabinet Office, $255,000- agreed to. 
Department of Trade and Industry 
Proposed expenditure, $40,030,000, less $2,350,000 for the Australian Tourist Commission. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. If it is the intention of the Minister to produce at the request of  Senator Greenwood  a statement on the effects of a reduction in hours in rural industries will the Minister in preparing that statement indicate the number of workers who would be affected in the rural industries by a reduction of hours? Will the Minister include in the statement a record of the effect of the contract system being used in rural industries to avoid award provisions relating to hours of work? How many rural industry awards now contain provision for a 40-hour week? When the Minister was operating farms in Western Australia what were the hours of his workers under the farm workers' award of Western Australia? Is the 40-hour week in industry generally still being phased in by the requirement of workers to work reasonable overtime? 
-I want to raise with the Minister the question of the application of laws to Commonwealth places and 1 ask whether the off-shore areas of Australia are regarded as Commonwealth places, either from the low water mark or from the furthest extent of what is termed territorial waters. There is great controversy within the Australian community as to whether the provisions of section 9 of the Petroleum Submerged Lands Act in fact extend the laws of the States to off-shore areas. There has been some attempt to clarify the position by an amendment to the South Australian Acts and an amendment proceeding in Western Australia to sections 1 1 and 14 of that State's Act. Whilst the position is insecure and there are attempts by the Commonwealth to extend State laws to the off-shore areas I would ask the Minister what effect this Bill would have on those areas if they are regarded as Commonwealthareas? As the Minister will know, I have been a member of the OffShore Petroleum Resources Committee for nearly 3 years and this has been one of the big controversial matters put before this Committee. 
In regardto Commonwealth jurisdiction to extend laws at least beyond territorial waters, either by the provisions of the Convention to which the Commonwealth is a party or by the use of the external affairs power, many learned people in Australia are. of the opinion that there is a grey area in this field and that the States are unable to legislate extra-territorially. This may be an area -I emphasise the words 'may be' - in which laws cannot be applied without some amendment to the statute which creates the Commonwealth. I ask the Minister whether this legislation or the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, or both, will extend to this area the provisions of the law as the Commonwealth wants it to. 
I draw the Minister's attention to proposed new section 329k subsection (3.). I will not read the whole subsection, but it contains the following words: 
. where the escape of oil did not occur as a result of the actual fault or privity of the owner - 
I want to know the meaning of the word privity'. I have asked some of the legal people around here, and I think I know the meaning of it, but we are not making a law for legal people. We are making a law for the community of Australia. Words used in Acts of this Parliament should be as much as possible words in common usage that people understand. We are told that ignorance of the law is no excuse in a charge of breach of the law. If the Government is going to use these abstruse terms in laws that it produces then it cannot expect people to understand what the law means. Even if they know what the word means they may not be able to understand what the Government is publishing. I would like the Minister to tell me exactly what that means and whether words in common usage could not have been used instead. 
I appreciate that the draftsmen frequently draft legislation with brevity in mind as far as possible. But this legislation is for the general public. When I first read the Bill I did not know what the word meant. I went to the Oxford Dictionary to find out what it meant. In its context here it did not mean anything to me, so I discussed it with some trained legal men and I found out the meaning of it then. People should not have to go to so much trouble to find out what a Bill or an Act of this Parliament means. If the Minister could tell me what the word means and whether other words could be used that would be understandable to the general community, I should be pleased. 
The purpose of the Bankruptcy Bill 1970 is to preserve or revive the effective operation of rural debt adjustment schemes. It provides for a stay of proceedings of any bankruptcy petition where there is a subsisting arrangement. I propose to address myself to some of the difficulties which the rural industries are facing and put forward some remedies which the Government should offer to the rural industries to relieve a lot of their difficulties. Earlier tonight I heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  addressing the Australian nation. In that address, preparatory for a Senate election, the Prime Minister dealt extensively with rural industries - I thought rather ineffectively because in my opinion he did not offer any worthwhile suggestions or remedies for the difficulties the rural industries face. All he said was that the Government would establish a rural debt insurance scheme similar to the housing loans insurance scheme to provide some protection for those farmers who are in distress. He emphasised that the rural debt insurance scheme would not apply to those who were in a hopeless position - I wonder who is to be the judge of that - nor would it apply to those who are- 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise: Has H.C. Sleigh Ltd exported to C. Itoh and Co. of Japan 230,000 barrels of crude oil from Bass Strait? Who issued the export licence, special licence or export permit that allowed the export of this amount of crude oil? ls Australia so affluent in reserves of crude oil that we can afford to export it? What price a barrel did H.C. Sleigh Ltd have to pay for the oil? Was it $3.50, $2.06 or a combination of those prices? What was the export price paid for each barrel of crude oil by C. Itoh and Co? fs it the intention of the Commonwealth to continue to allow the export of Australian crude oil? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Prime Minister advise the Senate to which Department enquiries may be directed to ascertain the price which Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and Esso are selling liquid petroleum gas from Bass Strait to overseas countries. 
I have asked the Minister for Industrial Development and the Minister for Customs and Excise without result, which Department is responsible for the sale overseas of Australian raw resources. 
As answers provided to questions the honourable senator has asked of other ministers concerning exports of liquified petroleum gas have indicated, information on export prices for this commodity is regarded as confidential between the companies concerned and governments. 
As pointed out, however, in the Minister for National Development's answer to Question No. 316 -(Hansard page 1082) the Commonwealth Statistician docs make available figures on the quantity and value of liquified petroleum gas exported from Australia. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a substantial quantity  of  wheat is being used in the alumina industry in Australia. 
What is the quantity of wheal that has been used by the industry in each of the past 5 years. 
Did the industry pay the home consumption price or the export price for the wheat. 
If the wheat was sold for use in Australia at less than the home consumption price was it rendered unfit for human consumption; if not, what precautions were taken to see that it was used fornoother purpose. 
 Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack's speech was a remarkable one because it was so backward. The honourable senator is living back in the days of feudalism, in the days of one-party government by those who had the opportunity - not the wealth, but the opportunity - to receive an education. The speech seemed to me to be quite a strange one, coming as it did from an honourable senator who is a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs. He dipped into feudalism in an attempt to justify the motion. I shall treat the remainder of his comments, dealing with the Australian Labor Party, with the contempt that they deserve. The honourable senator quoted from Article 76 of the United Nations Charter which provides that independence should be given to a trust territory only when it freely expresses a desire, of its own will, for independence. What opportunity have the people of Papua and New Guinea had to express their will as to whether they would take independence today, in 5 years time, in 10 years time or at any other time? What steps has this Government taken to determine the will of the people? lt has not taken one step to determine the will of the people. The only way that the will of the people can be determined is for the Government to hold a referendum, if the Government wants to ascertain the will of the people it should conduct a referendum. 
They voted for a socalled government of which honourable senators opposite are proud. Honourable senators opposite have put up to the world that the people of Papua and New Guinea have self government. Are honourable senators opposite now saying that the people there are not capable of voting? 
Then this is another gerrymander to which honourable senator's opposite subscribe. A similar situation arose with Austraiian Aboriginals. The bosses on the stations and on the missions voted on behalf of the Aboriginals. This is the type of government that honourable senators opposite want and this is the type of government that they want 'in Papua and New Guinea, lt is the type of government that the Democratic Labor Party wants. It wants a federation of States. Where will the surveyors draw the lines? Are the tribal boundaries to be the boundaries of the various States? There are about 1,000 different tribes in Papua and New Guinea. Will there be 1,000 different States? What kind of government do honourable senators opposite want to impose upon the people? 
I return to the motion. Standing order 64 can be used if an honourable senator wants to bring before the Senate something that, in his opinion, -should be dealt with by the Senate urgently. The only urgency I can see in the present situation arises from the fact that in 1970 and 1971  Mr Whitlam  was so successful in Papua and New Guinea that it is necessary for the Government to affirm its policy. That is the only urgency.  Mr Whitlam  said that, if he were the Prime Minister, he would grant self government in 1972 and independence in 1976. What urgency could there be for this motion other than that the Government is unsure of itself or that the Government is afraid that  Mr Whitlam  has been too successful in Papua and New Guinea? That is the only urgency that would warrant the matter being brought before the Senate at this time. 

 Senator Greenwood spoke about Australia's obligations in this Trust Territory. I invite honourable senators to listen carefully to what I am about to say. I may not have the honourable senator's exact words and I shall apologise later if I have wrong sense of what he said. Me said:  . . the obligation to be discharged in the light of what is in the best interests of Australia'. This immediately brings into focus the interests of the Australians and other people in the trust Territory. The second proposition put forward by  Senator Greenwood  was whether the obligation was to be discharged in the light of what was in the best interests of the people of Papua and New Guinea. So the interests of the people of Papua and New Guinea come second to the interests of Australia. We of the Australian Labor Party believe that the interests of the people of Papua and New Guinea should come first, not second. One may wonder why these things have to be recounted. 
What has the Australian Government done in Papua and New Guinea?  Senator McManus  said that on the fringes of the cities one could have a high school and a university. If one travels to Western Australia, one will find only one university - in Perth. There is nothing in the north west for the people except a couple of junior high schools. When I was in. Papua and New Guinea schools were situated in the highlands. I do not know what has happened to them now. I do know that not many students were going to the schools, but at least the schools were there. This is the knowledge which  Senator McManus  has of the Territory about which he proposes to speak. 
The honourable senator would quote anything that would make a case to suit himself. He should go and find out the truth a,nd not quote what other people say. What was the position with Bougainville Copper Pty Ltd? What were the conditions' which the Minister tried to impose upon the people of Boungainville Island about Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd taking over the copper deposit on that island? The indigenous people of Papua and New Guinea were able to negotiate a much better agreement with the company than was the Administration representing this Government which tried to enforce its agreement upon the people with tear gas and weapons. We are supposed to be looking after the people of Papua and New Guinea. We have given away everything that they had. We have given away the massive copper deposits on Bougainville Island and obtained a 20 per cent interest for the indigenous people. We lent the money to the Administration to take up the shareholding. But the indigenous people were able to do better than the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  was able to do. 
What is the position with the off-shore oil in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea? It is governed by the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. lt is interesting to know that this legislation does not stand up. The Senate will know.. about that in a short time. But the important thing about it is that section I I of the Act applies to the laws of Papua and New Guinea and into the waters adjacent to the Territory. What laws are there for the Territory of Papua and New Guinea Which are capable of being extended into this area? But we have given the exploiters of this country permit areas, each over" 10,000 square miles, for this purpose. There- is a massive gas supply in the Gulf of Papua. It is waiting there for the Phillips oil ' company to exploit it. What are the .indigenous people of Papua and New Guinea going to get out of it? What are they getting out of the  i  million acres of land in. the Hagen Valley which the Government gave to W. R. Carpenter and Co. Ltd on .which to grow lea. What are they getting out of it? W. R. Carpenter and Co. Ltd is getting all the profits. 
Has anything been done to see that the indigenous people have a rightful share in the mineral deposits on the Fly River? What about the land ownership problem which is causing all the trouble on the Gazelle Peninsula among the Mataungan people? What is the Government doing to settle that dispute among -the people. Who holds all the timber reservations in the territory? They are not held by the indigenous people, but by outsiders, the bloody pirates as they are called. They own half the assets of Papua and New Guinea; that is Burns Philp &amp; Co. Ltd. No-one can gainsay that. In any case, the timber concessions are capable of being given to the indigenous people by a special Act of Parliament. Under the present legislation loans were supposed to be made io the indigenous people to enable them to set up on the spot sawmills to handle the timber. Under the Act about 4 loans have been made. Anyway, the amount to be lent under the Act was a miserable £5,000. How could a mill be set up with a capital of £5,000- $10,000? Supporters of the Government should have a look at this sort of thing again and see Why the Government is trying to conserve the Territory in its present position. Honourable senators opposite say that they want to give the indigenous people self-determination when they want it of their own free will; but they will not give them an opportunity to express their own free will. Honourable senators opposite object to the Australian Labor Party setting times. They will nol come to the party and say. '1972 is too early for self-government. We think it might be 1975. 1976 is too early for independence. Perhaps we could grant it in 1 980.' No, honourable senators opposite just sit back and say it will be when., the people there want to have selfdetermination. But honourable senators opposite do. not take one step to give the people an opportunity to say whether they want selfdetermination. 
The Government flew 2 delegates to the United Nations in 1968 to tell the United Nations that the people of Papua and' New Guinea were quite satisfied with the efforts which the Australian Government was putting into the development of Papua and New Guinea, lt sent 2 people to convince the United Nations that its own policy was the correct policy. A lot has been said about  Mr Whitlam  being the big bad boy in the Territory; New Guinea is probably the best sugar cane growing area in the' world. Deliberately the Government has an Australian Country Party member as Minister for External Territories. He is the Minister for External Territories for one' purpose, and that is to prevent the people of Papua and New Guinea from growing sugar cane. The day that Papua and' New Guinea starts . to grow sugar cane the Queensland sugar industry will collapse. 
That is the very reason why  Mr Barnes,  a Country Party member, is the Minister for External Territories, and not any other reason. In 1964 when I was in Papua and New Guinea I was told by the people that if the Australian Government would not let them grow sugar at that time, on the day that they obtained their independence they would start to put every acre they possibly could under sugar. That is one of the reasons they are not being granted their self-government and their independence - because of the vested interests of the bushwhackers in the corner. It is time this Government stood on its own feet, accepted its responsibility and told these people: 'Get yourselves ready. You are going to have self-government in a certain time and you are going to have independence in another time. We will not forget to help you but we are not going to continue to help you if you are not prepared to help yourselves.' I oppose the motion. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has H. C. Sleigh Ltd exported to C. ltoh and Co. of Japan 230,000 barrels of crude oil from Bass Strait; if so, who issued the export licence, special licence or export permit that allowed the export of this amount of crude oil. 
Is Australia so affluent in reserves of crude oil that she can afford to export it. 
Did H. C. Sleigh have to pay $3.50 or$2.06 or a combination of these prices per barrel for the oil 
What was the export price paid by C. ltoh and Co. for the crude oil per barrel. 
Is it the intention of the Commonwealth to continue to allow the export of Australian crude oil. 
 ). have been a member of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources ever since it started. I wish I were Chairman of the Committee; it is the easiest way I know into the Ministry. We look on them as dickie birds. We have had 3 chairmen and we now have 3 Ministers. 
 I mean no disrespect,  Senator. Senator Wright  was our original  Chairman  and he finished up in the Ministry. 
 It is the easiest way.  Senator Cotton,  for whom I have great respect, finished up in the Ministry, and now in the Ministry we have  Senator Greenwood  who has been most invaluable to the Off-shore Petroleum Committee. I endorse  Senator Murphy's  remarks about the terms of reference. Again with no dis respect, I say that  Senator Wright  gave us an impossible task. 
 I  hope so too. In the period that I have been a member of. the Committee I have formed a special attachment to  Senator Greenwood  because of his able performance as  chairman,  his unselfish devotion to the Committee but more especially his unselfish giving of his legal knowledge to the Committee. T pay special tribute to him in that regard because  Senator Greenwood,  even though he knew that I wanted his legal knowledge to use against him, was always prepared to give it to me. 
 The Senate will be the judge of that when the results of  Senator Greenwood's  legal knowledge are presented to the Senate. This has been a long and a hard working committee. 1 know that certain dissatisfaction has been expressed within the Senate at the operations of the Committee. I remind the Senate that the Committee has had 2 part time officers.  Mr Bradshaw,  ' in conjunction with his duties to the Senate, has been secretary to the Committee.  Mr Guy  Smith, in conjunction with his duties to the Senate, has been assistant secretary to the Committee. We had one technical adviser,  Mr Tony  Barry of the Parliamentary Legislative Research Service, whom we released some time ago because he was required for that section. We have had the services of no other officers. 

 Senator Greenwood leaves the Committee not only as  chairman  but as legal adviser over a long period. 1 was disappointed when  Senator Wright  left the Committee although I do not begrudge him his promotion to the Ministry. He was the Committee's legal adviser in the short period that he was a member of it. From that time  Senator Greenwood  became legal adviser to the Committee during  Senator Cotton's  term as  chairman  and subsequently when he himself was  chairman.  He filled the dual role of  chairman  and legal adviser. 
We are in the final stages of producing a report. In the production of that report  Senator Greenwood  has played a very big part.  1  have done a tremendous amount of work on the Committee but  1  have not done one-half of the work that  Senator Greenwood  has done. The report has been prepared in a legal format and I suggest, not at this stage of course but when a senator is appointed to replace  Senator Greenwood,  that a legal officer also be appointed. 
 Senator Hannan  will be a member of the Committee. I wish him no discredit. I sat with him for  i  years as a member of the Senate Select Committee on the Encouragement of Australian Productions for Television which became known as the Vincent Committee.  Senator Wright  also was a member of that Committee. I do not wish to be interpreted as saying anything against  Senator Hannan  whom [ regard, from my experience on the Vincent Committee, as one of the best committee members in this place. The Committee comprises members other than Government members. 
 1  might have some words to say about hill-billy corner later.  Senator Webster  is a Government senator. I leave it at that. What I was trying to point out was that on our Committee we have  Senator Gair  and  3  Opposition senators. As  1  have said, after a very long time the Committee's report is in the final stages of production but, because of  Senator Greenwood's  exceptional knowledge of the law, it is drawn in a legal format. I do not criticise that but I point out that those who are not members of the Government will require advice to interpret some of the legal terms contained in the report. 
 1  am directing attention to committee members who are not members of the Government. I refer to  Senator Gair, Senator Keeffe, Senator O'Byrne  and myself.  Senator Byrne,  as a member of the legal profession, would know the difference between a report drawn in a legal format and a report drawn in a lay format. Sena tor Greenwood, who as  chairman  of the Committee has the responsibility for preparing the report, has drawn it in a legal format. Therefore those of us on this side of the House who may hold views opposite to those held by  Senator Greenwood  and his colleagues on the Government side will require some interpretation of the legal format in which the report is drawn. For that reason, with the permission of my Party I shall propose at a later stage that the Committee be given additional assistance in this regard. I did not do any work in this chamber yesterday and  1  have done little today because  1  have been interested in another committee which has been given permission to meet while the Senate is sitting. 
That is what the Government proposes. I have said already that I mean no disrespect to  Senator Hannan. Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has said that it is proposed to put  Senator Hannan  on the Committee. The Committee has been sitting for over  3  years. With all due respect to  Senator Hannan,  if he is appointed to it he will be a babe in the woods so far as the areas of conflict within the Committee are concerned.  1  am not being disrespectful to  Senator Hannan.  As a legal man,  Senator Byrne  would be in the same position. 
At least he would not have to attend to his senatorial work. 
At least he would be free to read the transcript of evidence relating to questions that senators might ask. I know that even in the most recent sitting of the Committee- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order!  Senator Cant,  I- think you have expressed an opinion about a motion that you propose to move at another stage. Perhaps this would be the appropriate time to do so. 
 I do not object to a legal representative from the Senate. What I am saying,  Mr Deputy President,  through you to the Leader of the Government, is that we have reached a stage in the preparation of our report where it is difficult for those with opposing views - you have served on committees and you know what opposing views' means - to get legal interpretation of something drawn up in legal format. I  will  not go further.I will leave the matter until such time as an honourable senator is appointed. The Government will have to notify the Senate of the appointment of another senator to fill  Senator Greenwood's  place on the Committee. At that stageI probably will speak again. I congratulate the three former chairmen of the Committee on their being appropriated, if I might put it that way, to the Ministry. 
 You can put it that way.I am rather proud of the chairmen we have had. I sat for eight months with  Senator Wright  on another committee but his short term on the Off-shore Petroleum Resources Committee did not count for much because he was appointed to the Ministry at about the same time that he was appointed  chairman.  I know the value of his work.  Senator Cotton  was a very good  chairman  of the Committee. Now that  Senator Greenwood  has gone I feel that we have lost something. If the Senate wants an intelligent report, some assistance will have to be provided for the Committee. 
 I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Will the Minister give the Senate information relative to the passenger load factor on TransAustralia Airlines' flight 593 direct between Perth and Melbourne over the last 12 months? 
I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  Have the attendants on the front door of Parliament House been instructed not to admit visitors to the House between the hours of 12.30 p.m. and 2 p.m. on days on which the Parliament is sitting? As Parliament House is one of the prime tourist attractions in Canberra will the  President  take steps to advise the Senate of the reason for the instruction? Unless the instruction has some security motive will the  President  take steps to have it countermanded? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that in 1968 the South African Government refused to accept in South Africa a visiting team of cricketers representing the United Kingdom? Was the reason for the rejection of the British team the fact that it contained a South African coloured cricketer, namely, Basil D'Oliveira? 
I will not delay the Senate for very long but I invite the attention of honourable senators to the fact that on 7th May 1970 1 raised the interpretation of standing order No. 64. 1 interpreted that standing order to mean that the Senate could adjourn to an unusual time to debate a matter of urgent public interest and that the debate on that matter should take place when the Senate met at that unusual time. Following some debate you ruled,  Mr President,  that there was no substance in what I said. Your ruling is to be found at page 118 of Hansard of 7th May. On that occasion you said: 
I see no reason why this matter should not be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. I think that there may be some value in having the matter considered by that committee. I do not propose to change a precedent which has been established with regard to the interpretation of standing order 64. 
You did say at that stage  Mr President,  that you would refer the matter to the Standing Orders Committee. 
Subsequently I moved, by way of written motion, disagreement with your ruling. Later in the day during the adjournment debate I questioned the accuracy of the Journals and I requested that they be corrected. This was not done. I thought that such a state of affairs would prejudice me in a debate on dissent from your ruling. The debate on your ruling should have taken place on the next sitting day of the Senate, which was 12th May. But it did not take place until 13th May. Your ruling was upheld by the Senate although  Senator Gair  stated that he thought the interpretation that I had placed upon the standing order was correct. However he said that, in view of the fact that you had stated you would forward the matter to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration, he did not propose to support the motion of dissent from your ruling. 
I thought that when the matter was referred to the Standing Orders Committee the Committee would take into consideration the subject matter of the debate and if that Committee thought it was necessary it would amend the standing order or perhaps recommend to the Senate that another standing order be incorporated in the Standing Orders. Alternatively, the Committee could support the fact that the standing order was sufficient to deal with the business of the Senate. But since that time we have not heard anything from the Committee. We do not know whether the matter has been referred to the Committee or whether the Committee has considered the standing order. If it has, we do not know the conclusion of the Committee.  Sir, I  invite your attention to the fact that on several occasions quite recently when there have been debates in the Senate on matters that senators thought were urgent you, or whoever has been in the chair, have been requested to advise the Senate of the subject matter on which it was voting. It was made quite clear that all that honourable senators were voting upon was the adjournment of the Senate and that they were not voting upon the substance of the matter that was being debated. 1 believe this is a most unsatisfactory state of affairs. 
I am sorry I have to bring this to your attention at this late hour in view of your imminent retirement. However, this is probably the last occasion on which I shall have to deal with this matter before the Senate rises. I think that the matter should be referred to the Standing Orders Committee and whoever is responsible for calling a meeting or meetings of the Standing Orders Committee should do sp as early as possible in order that the ambiguity of this standing order may be rectified. 
 Up to date we have heard an historical record of China. It seems to me that some of the speakers who have taken part in this debate are blinded by the historical records and are not prepared to view conditions as they exist in the world today. We have to deal with the problems of today and not what happened in Marco Polo's time or what happened 2,000 years ago or anything of that nature. During question lime today the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, was asked a question about the People's Republic of China. He declined to answer the question on the basis that an urgency proposal with respect to recognition of the People's Republic of China was to be debated today and tha*  Senator Wright,  who would be the Minister in charge of that debate, would announce the Government's- policy with respect lo the recognition of mainland China. Contrary to the Standing Orders,  Senator Wright  read a well prepared speech. I hope that when an analysis of that speech is made the Government will have second thoughts as to whether that is its attitude towards the recognition of the People's Republic of China, because 1 think that that prepared statement contained pretty well every insult that could possibly be thought of to be thrown at the people of that great country. 
 The honourable senator will have an opportunity to speak after me. He tried as much as he possibly could to interfere with  Senator Turnbull's  speech. I suggest that the honourable senator should look after himself; I will look after myself. I have been doing it for a bit longer than the honourable senator has. What is not realised and what the Government will not face up to is the fact that we live in Asia, for good or ill, and our future is wrapped up with whatever takes place in this area. In the process we refuse to recognise the greatest force for peace that resides in this area. We constantly find reasons advanced why these 800 million people in China are not to be trusted and should not be welcomed into the community of nations, although  Senator Wright  early in his remarks said that the Government has always recognised that at some time the People's Republic of China would be drawn into the community of nations. The Government has not always recognised that. I can remember many speeches made in this chamber that have shown that the Government's policy is not in accord with the statement made by  Senator Wright.  Not only is his statement a prevarication of previous attitudes held by the Government towards the People's Republic of China but it is too vague for anyone to understand. What is meant by the term 'at some time'? Twenty years have passed and we have made no moves to recognise mainland China other than for the purposes of trade. What is meant when the Government says that at some time these people will be drawn into the community of nations? In the 'Australian', the national newspaper, this heading appears in this morning's edition: 
CP- 
That is the Australian Country Party -  to back recognition of China. 
That heading is completely false in view of the article that follows. I am not too sure  when  Mr  Anthony became a Minister of  the  Crown but it was not very long ago. One would not expect it to be very long ago because he is quite a young man. He was appointed to the Ministry to represent the Country Party at quite an early age. This article  in  the 'Australian' quotes  Mr  Anthony as saying: 
I  was the first Australian Minister ever to say that the People's Republic of China should, sooner or later, be recognised. 
What sort of statement is  this?  He uses the term 'sooner or later'. I ask: Sooner than what; later than what? What is  the  Minister trying to say? What sort of statement is it when a Minister of the Crown makes a vague statement that sooner or later the Government will recognise mainland China? I just cannot understand these sorts of statements which are supposed to be statements of policy.  Senator Wright,  speaking on behalf of the Government, said that China will be brought into the community of nations at some time, and now  Mr Anthony  says that sooner or later we will recognise the People's Republic of China. 
If one looks more closely at the article - I do not know whom they seek to mislead - one will see that there was before the annual conference of the Victorian Country Party a proposal for the recognition of mainland China. But  Mr Anthony  did not support that proposal, despite the heading which appears at the top of the article.  Mr Anthony  supported an amendment to the original proposal. The amendment was in these terms: that efforts be made by the Australian Government to resolve the question of Taiwan's membership of the United Nations . . . 
So the first consideration of the amendment was the question of Taiwan's membership of the United Nations. It was nothing to do with the recognition of mainland China and nothing to do with the Country Party recognising China, as the heading states. But tacked onto the end of the substantive part of the resolution are these words: and the recognition of Communist China. 
That is the proposal which  Mr Anthony  supported yesterday at the annual conference of the Victorian Country Party. 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack said that not all the changes were taking place at this time, that there have been changes in the Australian Government's attitude to mainland China over the 20 years that we have not recognised it. But when the Minister in charge of the debate on this urgency proposal enunciated the Government's policy he accused the People's Republic of China of wanting to create revolution in practically every country in Asia right around to India. Yet  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack told us that there has been a changing attitude and that in that changing attitude there were two matters to be considered. I did not hear the second one to which the honourable senator referred, but the first matter to be considered was that both sides must play the game. Those are my words; they are not quite the words of the honourable senator but that is what he meant. He meant that both sides in a diplomatic exchange must abide by the rules. I do not think that ( have in any way abridged what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said. But what did  Senator Wright  say about China's attitude to the rest of Asia? He said that she has not been playing the game, but that she has been trying to create revolution in every country in Asia.  Senator Wright  must be taken to be the principal  speaker  for the Government on this subject. 
I ask: As far as the Australian Government is concerned, where is the change of attitude by China which has, for example, enabled us now to follow the lead of the United States and send a ping-pong team to China and engage in diplomatic relations of this sort? Australia did not think of sending a ping-pong team to China before the United States decided to send one. The only foreign policy that Australia has is to follow the leader. The Australian Government sits down and listens to the newscasts of the United States in order to find out what policy it will adopt with respect to the other nations of the world. 

 Senator Wright went on to say that Taiwan's position must be protected in any recognition of the People's Republic of China. I think that the position of every country has to be protected, but 1 do not believe that we can protect the position that Taiwan has in the United Nations of being the representative, of the 800 million Chinese people on the mainland. 1 agree that there is a place in this world for the people of Taiwan, but it is ridiculous for anyone to think that the position which the Formosan Government has in the United Nations should be protected while, at the same time, the position of the 800 million people on the mainland should be disregarded. I agree that Taiwan must be protected, but we should be realistic and face up to the fact that the Government of the people of China is the governmnt on the mainland and not the government on an island off the coast. 
In order to prevent, recognition of the People's Republic of China the Australian Government has taken certain action in various world bodies. In 1968 a committee was set up within the Inter-Parliamentary Union to determine the - conditions of membership of that body. Australia secured a position on that committee in order to prevent North Korea, North Vietnam, East Germany and. the People's Republic of China from being admitted to membership of the IPU. Australia took a leading part in the activities of that committee in order only to exclude the people of those nations from the. community of nations that is the IPU. This is the attitude that Australia has adopted towards the membership of the largest group of people in our own area of this world body. What I have said can be confirmed by an examination of the records of the IPU. I am not making idle statements. 

 Senator Wright also wanted to know what would be the effect on small Asian nations of the abandonment of Taiwan. We are getting ready to abandon Taiwan anyway and we are getting ready to abandon the other small nations, too. No matter what may be the feelings of certain reactionary people in this Parliament there is no doubt that within a very short period of time the Australian Government will recognise the People's Republic of China. Regardless of the fears of  Senator Wright  and those people who prepared his. speech about .the attitude of small nations in Asia to the abandonment, of Taiwan it will be abandoned because, for the sake of trade, we will eventually and at a pretty early time recognise the People's Republic of China.  1 support  the motion  which was moved by  Senator Turnbull.  1 hope that it will force the Goverment to lake more positive action at a very early date'. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Is it a fact that each member of the Senate and each member of the House of Representatives, when they first sat in the Parliament at Canberra, planted a tree in the vicinity of the present Canadian High Commission? If so, have some of those trees been cut down; on whose instructions were they cut down; and for what purpose were they cut down? Are the trees at present standing marked with the names of the senators or members who planted them? If not, will the Minister take steps to preserve the trees now standing and have them so marked? Also, will the Minister have trees planted to replace those that were cut down and have them marked appropriately? 
 Mr Deputy President- 
 Anything would be good enough for the members of hillbilly corner. It is my understanding that the Parliament determined that its proceedings in both the House of Representatives and the Senate should be broadcast to the nation in order that the nation might be informed of the performance of members and senators. Part of the function of the Senate is to examine the Estimates of Receipts and Expenditure of the Government. Wednesday is the one day of the week when the proceedings of the Senate are broadcast, but by setting up some committees the Government has moved the discussion of the Estimates into back rooms, off the air, where members of the public are not informed of the proceedings of the Parliament. That is my first objection to committees meeting during the time that the Senate is sitting. 
When dealing with the Estimates Committees I do not know whether we should regard them in the same light as standing committees or select committees. I find that standing order 39 states that the Senate may give leave to a standing committee to sit during the sittings of the Senate. Earlier in this sessional period we gave the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange permission to sit during a time when the Senate was sitting, but we did that for an express purpose involving a dispute within the stock exchanges of Australia with regard to a registered company named Leopold Minerals Ltd. It did not occur to me at that time that the Securities and Exchange Committee would continue to meet while the Senate was sitting to examine other aspects of the stock exchanges of Australia. I understood that we were giving permission for the Committee to sit during a situation of emergency with respect to Leopold. An examination of the Standing Orders with respect to select committees leaves me with the impression that we are in breach of the Standing Orders by giving the Securities and Exchange Committee the right to sit during a period when the Senate is sitting. Standing order 301, which is in the chapter dealing with select committees, states: 
All Committees sitting at the lime the  President  is about to take the Chair shad be informed thereof by the Usher of the Black Rod; all proceedings after such notice shall be null and void. 
I agree that the Senate is its own master, but there is no provision within the Standing Orders which gives it the right to give leave to a select committee to sit during the time that the Senate is sitting. When the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange asked for leave to sit because of an emergency while the Senate was sitting, the proper procedure would have been to adjourn the Senate to allow the Committee to sit and to examine its witnesses. When framing the Standing Orders the founding fathers could envisage situations of this kind developing and endeavoured to protect the Senate, the rights of senators and the people who are bound by decisions of the Senate. It is my opinion that we cannot give leave for a select committee to sit during a sitting of the Senate but, as I say, 

 I do not know whether the Estimates Committees are regarded as standing committees or select committees, which are the only 2 classes of committee dealt with in the Standing Orders. 
It is important that the Senate should distinguish between an estimates committee and a select committee. A select committee is one which operates under terms of reference to make an inquiry within those terms of reference. An estimates committee is a legislative committee whose function is to examine legislation proposed by the Government, lt is important that legislation which is put on the statute books should be examined by the Committee of the Whole. During a meeting the other night of the Estimates Committee upon which I serve as a member, I wanted to ask some questions with respect to a department but on a matter not dealt with in the supplementary Estimates, but I was told that I would have to ask those questions in the Committee of the Whole. We are running out of time. We have been informed today by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  that the reports of the Estimates Committees are to be in the hands of the Senate by 29th April. If the programme of the Government is adhered to, we have 1 week in which to examine all the legislation coming before us and at the same time have the Committee of the Whole consider the supplementary Estimates. That programme seems to me to be impossible to achieve. As happened with the Estimates during the last Budget session, consideration of the supplementary Estimates will go down the drain. 
I also point out to honourable senators that examination of the supplementary Estimates by the Estimates Committees is somewhat inhibited and lengthened when explanatory notes are not available. The Committee upon which I sit has met twice to consider the supplementary Estimates. The Department of the Interior, the department with the most widely spread activities, did not have explanatory notes available in respect of its estimates until yesterday morning, when I went and asked for them. It seems to me that the Government wants to have Estimates Committees - which are running out of time - but does not want to assist them to do their work by making available the appropriate information in time for it to be used in proper form by members of the Committees. I oppose the motion. 
I enter this debate because I come from a distant State. 1 notice that this Parliament is built around the States of Victoria and New South Wales. Originally the hour decided upon for meeting next Tuesday was 10 a.m. The Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has agreed that the Senate should not meet on Monday and has now put the hour of meeting on Tuesday morning back to 11 o'clock. Senators from New South Wales and Victoria can leave home on Tuesday morning and be here in time for an 11 o'clock sitting, but this is not the case with senators from Western Australia. We are to meet on Friday morning and it will be midnight by the time we reach our homes that night. Yet, we are expected to be back again on Monday. 
I think the Government is being completely unrealistic.  Senator Poyser  mentioned some of the Bills that are to come before the Senate. For the first time I can remember since I came here 12 years ago the Supplementary Estimates are being examined by the Senate. When the 2 Bills involved come before the Senate I want time to speak on the motion for the first reading. I think that the Government, over the years, has been playing ducks and drakes with the parliamentary system in connection with Supplementary Estimates. We want to talk about this matter. There is a lot of confusion in the minds of Australian people about industrial action that may be taken in respect of the airlines of Australia, both domestic and overseas. At the same time there is on the notice paper a Bill relating to a loan to enable Qantas Airways Ltd to purchase aircraft. It is quite likely that the whole gamut of what is happening in the airline industry inside and outside Australia today will need to be examined when we deal with that Bill. 
One could continue and refer to the 26 Bills that are on this paper. Of course, some of the Bills can be taken together - probably the 2 Supply Bills and those relating to workers' compensation - but there will have to bc some sort of debate on all the rest. Some of them are important internationally as well as to people in Australia. The Fisheries Bill can have repercussions for people who come to Australian waters to fish. This Bill could result in good or bad international relations for Australia yet we are expected to examine it in just a few hours. I wonder where the Parliament is heading when we are asked to agree to this sort of thing happening. 1 do not agree that it should happen. 
Last year we sat until 14th June. What is the hurry today to get out of this place? Why does the Government want us to get out so quickly? It was set down originally that we would conclude the sittings on 29th April. The Government cannot say that it has no work for the Parliament because there is plenty of work on the notice paper. The simple fact is that the whole of this session of Parliament has been devoted to settling the disputes within the Liberal Party, in determining who should be its leader and what attitude should be taken. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  cannot make up his mind whether .to go on with the legislative programme or whether to hold an early election in an endeavour to get a mandate for himself to govern this country. This is the sort of thing that has been going on in this country since Parliament met on 16th February. Now we are faced with the situation that the Government wants to get out of this place as quickly as possible. 
I am prepared to work here as long as I did in the autumn session last year, dealing with the business of the Parliament in the way it should be dealt with. I do not want to race home just to get away from the place. I was elected to come to Canberra and deal with the legislation affecting this country and I am prepared to be here. Apparently the Government is not prepared to do this. The Government does not want to be here in Parliament; it wants to continue the Cabinet system of governing; it. wants dictatorship government whereby 13 members of Cabinet decide the issues that affect Australia. It wants the elected representatives of the people to have no sayin the government of Australia. This is the sort of government that the Liberal Party and the Country Party want to continue. I' do not agree with it. I think it is time that the Australian people insisted upon some form of. democratic government, some semblance of democracy, in this country. Democracy does not mean governmentby the majority; it means government by the majority with due respect to the minority. There is no respect for the minority, the Opposition. The Government takes no notice of what happens. It bulldozes legislation through the Parliament I think it is time that it was stopped. It is time that we jacked up and told the Government that we are not going to co-operate with it in this form of governing and told it that the Cabinet is not the sole purpose of Parliament House being open. I oppose the motion. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) (5.23)  -  in reply - We have seen the old free ride this afternoon for sure. But I guess I can take it. Before we leave this Senate at the end of this session some honourable senators I am looking around are going to be eating the words they uttered this afternoon. I am referring to those honourable senators who have Uttered such rhetoric about sitting on, who have said: 'Let us go to the barricades. Let us sit on'. They will be the people who will be asking in the corridors: 'When can we get up?' I do not think hypocrisy, I never have, and I have never had to live with it. I will explain what I am doing for those who want to be reasonable. I am trying to get an ordered plan which will keep our work as close as is reasonably possible to that of the other place. But let no honourable senator imagine that they will be leaving Parliament House when the sittings conclude in the other House. You have asked for it and you will get it. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThat is far enough. We will work a reasonable time. It is easy for honourable senators to stand and have a sling when the proceedings are being broadcast. 
Let me get on to the substance of the matter. We intend to try to stay as close as we can to the other place. What  Senator Cant  and some other speakers said about the number of Bills yet to come to us is true. I am glad that  Senator Kennelly  has come back into the chamber. Now that he is here, in fairness to him I will repeat what I said. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI intend to. I will do so after finishing the point I am making. We intend to try to stay as close as we can to the other place. But it is true, as stated by  Senator Cant,  I think it was, that 20odd Bills have yet to come from the other place. We have 5 Bills here already, waiting for the messages to be read. But, in order to meet the convenience of the Opposition I am not proposing to put them on as I normally would. That is to enable a debate to take place tonight on the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill. This is factual. I could sit in here, have these 5 Bills called on and introduce them. That would mean that we would come to the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill at about 10 o'clock tonight. But I do not want to do that. We have to be sensible about these matters. 
Let me come back to  Senator Kennelly's  point. He said that it was not fair he might have used stronger language against me, but I will leave it at that because what I was doing was introducing at a quarter to five today a motion to sit on Friday. 1 repeat to  Senator Kennelly  that on my instructions the Acting Government Whip spoke to the Opposition Whip yesterday in relation to proposals for sitting 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI say that it is hypocrisy on  Senator Kennelly's  part to suggest that it was intro duced at a quarter to five. That is what I am saying now and what I said before. That is where I stand in relation to the matter. 
I will always try to give members of the Opposition the courtesy that should be extended to them. I repeat that I want to keep as close as we can to the other place, and I am sure that all honourable' senators, regardless of party, want to do that very thing. Honourable senators opposite have had a free ride this afternoon. I suppose that is part of the life we live. But I think they have to give me credit for the fact that I repeat this for  Senator Kennelly's  benefit I did not first introduce this question of sitting on Friday at a quarter to five today. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn the Senate, I did, of course? but  Senator Kennelly  did not say that. He did not say what he said in that context. The many people listening to the broadcast, I hope, will have heard what he said. He and I have a difference of view about that. I say that he did say it in the context of suggesting that hedid not know about this proposal Until a quarter to five. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe honourable senator made play on it. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn fact, it is the truth that I introduced it at a quarter to five. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn this place. That is the point of it. However, the short answer to all of this is that the vote of the Senate and the will of the Senate will determine the matter, and if the Senate determines not to sit on Friday we will have to sit a little longer. But do not let anybody come around the corner and say: 'How soon can we. get up?' 

 Senator KENNELLY (Victoria)-  Mr President,  I ask for leave to make a personal explanation because' I believe that I have been grossly misrepresented and, what is more, by the words I heard, insulted. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson's)  be agreed to. 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government. Is it a fact that Estimates Committee D was scheduled to meet in committee room L58 at 5.30 p.m. on 28th April 1971? Is it a fact that the Senate had earlier that day agreed to a motion that Estimates committees be permitted to meet during the meeting time of the Senate? Isit also a fact that Committee D was unable to conduct any business because members of the Government parties who had voted in support of the motion failed to attend and boycotted the meeting? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI can ony say yes to a couple of the questions asked by the honourable senator, but as to the other aspects raised by him I shall have to seek information. When I have that information I shall no doubt be able to respond to his question. The honourable senator used the word 'boycotted'. That is a word that does not come into the considerations of senators on this side of the chamber. 
by leave - While we are in the process of referring matters to the Standing Orders Committee, could the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  advise us whether it is possible to have standing order 64 considered by the Standing Orders Committee before the Com- mittee's timetable is cluttered up with other references to it? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) - by leave- It is my hope that before the end of this financial year there will be an opportunity for the Standing Orders Committee to consider standing order 64. That standing order will be on the Committee's agenda. I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Orders Committee - That standing order 33A be amended as follows: At end of standing order add '; and also to inquire into and report upon matters concerning rights, responsibilities, obligations and protection of senators and, in relation to proceedings of the Senate, of members of the public, which may be referred to it by the Senate". 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I want to speak to the first reading of Appropriation Bill (No. 3). I do not know whether the Senate is taking the 2 Appropriation Bills together. 
I refer to division 390, subdivision 1, item 01, salaries and allowances, Department of National Development. Under the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) the appropriation for salaries and allowances was $1,660,000. On this occasion an additional appropriation of $210,000 has been asked for. I have not bothered generally to look at increases in salaries and allowances in the supplementary estimates because I know that increases would result from Public Service Board decisions and the national wage case. So increases in  salaries have not been of very great interest to me. They are out of the control of the Government and there is nothing we can do about them. 
However, the national wage case accounts for only $50,000 of this appropriation of $210,000. This leaves an appropriation of $160,000 to be used for additional positions and promotions. Cadet trainee draftsman and technical officers are to cost an extra $60,000. Surely the Department nas some idea of what it is doing with respect to additional positions of cadet trainees and what its intake of draftsmen and technical officers will be. Although the then Prime Minister said only last February that there would be a cut back in recruitment we have not had a cut back in the vote to which I am referring.  Mr Gorton  said that the various departments would be asked to recruit the lowest possible number of staff and that there would be various other cutbacks. 
Another matter which 1 have not analysed in any way is the extra appropriation for overtime. I realise that if a higher wage scale is being paid as a result of industrial decision there will be more overtime paid unless less overtime is worked. So I have not bothered to analyse that item. I think an explanation should be given in respect of the appropriation of $60,000, in view of the circumstances. Perhaps the Minister will indicate the extra activity engaged in by the Department to require the services of the officers. How many are there in each category? I have taken details from the explanatory notes. 
I do not wish to ask any further questions relating to the expenditure of the 
Department of National Development. I want to move on to the Department of Shipping and Transport, whose estimates are also under the control of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in this place. 
 I will move accordingly. 
Progress reported. 
When Estimates Committee D was sitting the  Chairman  advised the Committee that questions would be allowed only on items upon which a supplementary appropriation was being sought and that questions generally on civil, aviation - the item with which the Committee was dealing - would have to be dealt with in the Committee of the Whole. I drew to the attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  the types of matters upon which I would require information, so that the officers of his department would be in a position to give some information on those matters. I now ask  Senator Cotton  why it is that overseas brochures designed to encourage people to travel to Australia by Qantas Airways Ltd, the Australian overseas airline, exclude any reference to Darwin, Adelaide and Perth and deal only with the attractions of Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne. Why is information about one half of the Commonwealth excluded from overseas advertisements? 
I think Hobart is not regarded as part of Australia in this context. I think the honourable senator might make some inquiries for himself. Many 
Tasmanians think of the mainland of Australia as an offshore island. I also ask: Can the Minister give any information as to the air-mile passenger fare from Sydney to Singapore and the air-mile passenger fare from Perth to Singapore? Can the Minister advise us whether the fare from Sydney to South Africa includes $40 for the portion of the journey across Australia and that the charge for the Australian part of the passenger fare from Perth to Honolulu is $120? If this is so, can the Minister give an explanation for it? I would like an explanation. I am advised that the air fare from Perth to Singapore is a little over 8c per mile whereas the air fare from Sydney to Singapore is 6c per mile. If this is so, people travelling from Western Australia suffer a handicap. There must be some reason for it. 
I do not want to make a second reading speech. But in many respects those on the west coast are at a disadvantage when travelling to Asia whereas we should be at an advantage because of our closer proximity to Asia. I am only asking the Minister questions that have been posed in public, in the Press and on television and in various other places. I. want to say something about the domestic airlines. I know that when I speak about one airline I speak about both of them, because they are like children at play - they follow the leader all over Australia. The services and the times of travel of the 2 airlines are so similar that one cannot say anything about one airline without its being applicable to the other airline. In a question some weeks ago I asked th&lt;* Minister for Civil Aviation whether he could tell me the load factor from Perth to Adelaide on flight 593 for the past 12 months. 
I would like the Minister, if he can, to explain why the number of flights in and out of Perth has been reduced so drastically, why their times of departure have not been as scheduled and also why economies are being practised without any reduction in fares. I refer particularly to flight 507 upon which most members of Parliament travel from Perth on a Mon day. On that flight, which used to leave Perth at 1 o'clock and on which a meal was provided, and which now is scheduled to leave Perth at 1.50 p.m. and on which a meal is still scheduled, a meal is no longer provided. This is not so much of a handicap to the people who have their homes in Perth as it is to people who have been staying in hotels or in accommodation of that kind who are unable to have a meal before leaving Perth. They look at a timetable and find that a meal is to be provided on the flight, but they find during the flight that they get nothing. Nevertheless, the fare is still the same. I know that many business people from Perth are now travelling by economy class from Perth to Adelaide, even though they are travelling on expense accounts and would be entitled to first class travel. 
I should like the Minister to give some explanation for the drastic reduction in the number of flights and also, if he can, some explanation of the number of flights departing from Adelaide which miss the connections with on-flights from various places. A lady left Canberra last week on a flight to Tasmania. She was supposed to join a connecting flight in Melbourne but was unable to catch that flight and had to spend 5i hours in Melbourne waiting for the next flight. She missed the connecting flight by 5 minutes because her flight from Canberra was 25 minutes late in leaving. This is not an infrequent occurrence. If we ask Trans- Australia Airlines for an explanation we are told that it is better to have an accident on the ground than to have one in the air, but in my opinion the delays in many cases are not caused by mechanical faults in the aircraft's system. 
We will not leave tonight if I am able to get answers to all of my questions. Could I ask  Senator Cotton,  through you,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  whether the answers to queries asked by Senators Murphy, Prowse, Bishop and Turnbull which I have received through the Minister's good offices today, will be incorporated in Hansard? 
Minister for Civil Aviation, Parliament House, CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600 
My dear Chairman, 
In the hearing before Senate Estimates Committee 'D' on Wednesday, 21st April, 1971,  Senator Murphy  asked about salaries paid to senior officers of the Department of Civil Aviation and to captains of aircraft in the domestic and international fields. Attachment 'A' shows the basic salaries of these two groups. As I said at the hearing, the Public Service Board prescribes the gradings and classifications of senior officers within the Department, with the exception of the Director-General whose salary is set by the Parliament. 
Yours sincerely, ROBERT COTTON 
SenatorJ.  E. Marriott, 
Chairman, Senate Estimates Committee 'D', Parliament House, CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600 

<graphic href="047232197104304_45_0.jpg"></graphic>

Additional  Pay 
In addition  tothe  above basic rates of pay, pilots are paid additional remuneration on an hourly rate basis for hoursflown in excess of prescribed minimums. The guaranteed minimum pay in the case of a B707 captain is based on a pilot flying up to 128 hours each 56 days. The average amount earned by flying in excess  of  these hours is of the order  of  $2700 per annum and the average earnings  of a  Qantas B707 captain would approximate $22,000 per annum. 
A similar system exists in the domestic area where, for example, the guaranteed minimum pay of the B727 captain is based on 65 flying hours per month. The average amount earned by B727 captains employed by TAA and Ansett by flying in excess of these hours is of the order of $1,970 per annum and the average earnings  of  these pilots would approximate $17,700 per annum. 
ADDITIONAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS AT HEARING ON 28th APRIL 1971 DIVISION 358 

 Senator Prowse 

Question 
Under Sub Division 1, Item 01, how many new positions were approved by the Public Service Board? 
Answer 
There were 67 new positions approved by the Public Service Board. 

 Senator Prowse 

Question 
Under Sub Division 1, Item 01, what amount  Is  sought in respect of each of the elements listed in the Explanations? 
Answer 
The provision of $632,000 is made up as follows: 

<graphic href="047232197104304_45_1.jpg"></graphic>

I refer to the appropriation of $6,000 for travelling and subsistence in Division 392 - Northern Division. It is only a small amount, but I direct the attention of the Committee to paragraph (b) of the explanatory notes, which states: 
The  doubling since November  1970  of visits by Northern Division officers to Perth to attend meetings of the North-West Planning Authority and the Ord Project Co-ordinating Committee- 
I would have thought that most of this work would have been done long before now. The additional works on the Ord River were an election gimmick in 1968. Were we not prepared? Did we not know what was going on at that stage? Surely we would have known what was going on. Three years later we are still having meetings of these people. The notes continue: - and the Western Australian Government, which has the primary carriage of these meetings decided from November to hold them on alternate fortnights instead of the same day. 
Just what is meant by that? Are we to be put to extra expense because of poor liaison? These people in Western Australia rely very heavily on the Commonwealth Government for grants under section 96 to enable them to carry out national works. Then they dictate the days upon which meetings may take place and add expense to the Commonwealth Government for the travelling of officers to attend meetings. Surely there can be some co-ordination in this matter. 
I also direct the Minister's attention to the appropriation of $20,000 in Division 394 - Division of National Mapping - for the hire of aircraft. If we examine the appropriation in last year's Budget we find that the expenditure provided for was $70,000 more than for the previous year. Some considerable amount of additional activity must have been anticipated, but what is the reason for the extra $20,000 for which this item now provides? 
I refer to Division 396, subdivision 2, which relates to administrative expenses of the Bureau of Mineral Resources and particularly to item 07. The explanatory notes refers to a seismic survey of the Sepik River. They do not refer to a seismic survey of the Sepik River district. Is any part of the Sepik River where the survey is to be conducted licensed or reserved for prospecting? Will this work be carried out in conjunction with some exploration company or will it be carried out by the Department alone and the information made available to some exploration company? If the area is found to be prospective for minerals or other materials that are being sought in the area will an exploration company or corporation pay for the seismic work? Will it make any refund to the Commonwealth Government? If a project is successful as a result of the expenditure of public money, what share will the people gain? I should like the Minister to give some explanation of this item. 
I draw attention to the supplementary appropriation of $200,000 in respect of contract investigations under this same Division. The Budget appropriation was for SI. 6m. According to the explanatory notes the additional appropriation is required to meet the amount expected to become payable under contract for a geo physical survey of the outer continental margin. No cash provision was made for payments under this contract in the original appropriation so it would seem that the whole of the $200,000 is related to a geophysical survey of the outer margin. Does the expression 'outer margin' refer to the outer edge of the continental shelf? What does it mean? Why is a geophysical survey of only the marginal area being carried out? 
As 1 understand it most of the continental shelf is under permit to oil explorers. Of course some areas are not and there are reasons for this. I would think that the Commonwealth Government's responsibility in this area would be more to define the outer margin of the continental shelf rather than to be carrying out a geophysical survey. If a geophysical survey is being carried out what is its object? What are we looking for? Are we looking for areas which may contain hydrocarbons? Are we looking for other minerals in this area? Why is the activity being carried on. If that geophysical survey is being carried out for information purposes- for the Commonwealth Government or the Bureau of Mineral Resources, what assistance is being received from the people who presently hold exploration permits or perhaps exploitation permits in this area? I do not think any exploitation is going on in that depth of water. Is the survey being conducted to ensure that licences or permits are not issued beyond the margin? 
There has been some considerable controversy as to whether the Australian Australian Government should take full advantage of the definition of continental shelf as it appears in the 'Geneva Convention'. As the Minister well knows, that Convention provides that the continental shelf extends to the depth of exploitation, whatever that may be. But generally the Commonwealth has not issued permits beyond the 200 metre mark. Is the survey being carried out for the purpose of issuing permits beyond this 200 metre mark? I would be pleased if the Minister could give me some answers to those questions. 
I wish to deal with Division 480, subdivision 2, administrative expenses. I indicate once again that it is not my intention in examining these estimates to attack any of the salary rises unless I think they are exorbitant, because they are largely out of the hands of the Government if they are the result of determinations or decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In looking at the overall position, I think the way in which administrative expenses of the various departments are increasing is a disgrace. There should be very good reason for these increases. Item  01  in subdivision 2 makes provision for an additional appropriation of $82,000. The amount appropriated in the Budget was about the same as was expended last year, and now an extra $82,000 is required. What situation has developed that would require this extra appropriation? The expenditure was $255,000 in 1967-68, $296,000 in 1968-69, and $397,715 in 1969-70. The estimate for 1970-71 was only $400,000. It seems to me that there was a deliberate attempt here to underestimate and to try to produce a fictional balanced Budget in August of last year. 
I would like to know what the increased expenditure  of $82,000  represents. I have examined the explanatory notes in connection with it, although we received them very late in the piece to be able to examine them properly. The . explanatory notes in relation to this item indicate ' that an extra appropriation of $18,000 is required for travelling allowances and an extra $28,000 for fares to cover this increased travelling by the administrative staff. The expenditure in relation to travelling allowances almost equals the cost of fares listed under this item. But the explanatory notes go further and give a break up of the method of expending this amount. The notes show that the expansion of central office, Canberra, and departmental activities resulting in increased travel between Canberra and Melbourne has resulted in an extra appropriation of $12,980 being required. This is quite a large amount for travelling between an office in Canberra and an office in Melbourne. J realise that the main functions of the Department of Shipping and Transport have over the years been centred in Melbourne. I take it from the explanation given that there has been a gradual movement of the Department to Canberra. But it seems to me that that is quite a large amount to expend on travel between Melbourne and Canberra. 
Under the same item we find that an expenditure of $12,200 had not been estimated for in relation to overseas travel. I regard this as a considerable amount of money not to have been estimated for in the Budget and not to have been foreseen by the Department to be required. I also invite attention to the figure of $12,980 in that respect. This sort of travel between Canberra and Melbourne should have been foreseen at the time the estimates were being prepared. The next item is concerned with excess costs incurred due to the need to change members of crews of lighthouses, particularly in Western Australia and Queensland. Apart from people leaving the Department and having to be replaced, surely the Department knows whether lighthouse keepers are going on leave and have to be replaced. The Department could be caught in a tight spot in the case of illness or something like that, which necessitates people being replaced. But a bald statement such as this is not satisfactory to me. 
Under the third section of the item we are asked to appropriate $12,200 for overseas travel which was not estimated for. Under the eighth section of the item there is the cost of overseas travel associated with the presentation of Captain Cook's cannon, namely, $2,850. Surely the preparations for the presentation of Captain Cook's cannon were not made in a hurry. Surely the Department knew what was to happen in regard to that presentation and knew whether it would have to send some? one overseas in connection with that. It seems to me that these sorts of items should have been in the Budget and should not be in the supplementary estimates. 
The next item to which I want to refer covers postage, telegrams and telephone services. Under this item $235,000 was appropriated in the Budget. It must have been expected that that amount would not cover increased charges. An extra $65,000 is now required. Some of the reasons are given in the explanatory notes. My inquiries arise not from what is in the explanatory notes but from what is left out of them. The explanatory notes do not give us the necessary information, but they do give us clues that enable us to make some inquiries. In my examination of the Estimates I have not attacked on a general basis, increases in telephone, postal and other charges made by the Postmaster-General's Department. The reason is that it has been revealed that such increases are not taken into consideration when the Budget is prepared and that they must be included in the supplementary estimates. 
But, looking through the dissection of the figure of $65,000, 1 find that an extra appropriation of $51,400 is required for the use of office telephones. That applies to the three-quarters of the year for which charges were increased as a result of the legislation passed in October. 1 also find an extra appropriation of $4,000 for residential telephones. Where are we going with residential telephones? The extra use of residential telephones will involve $4,000. What is the amount that is spent on residential telephones over the whole year? Whose telephones are these? Who is entitled to a residential telephone under the estimates of this Department? I believes that the Committee should have some information on that item. 
The next item to which I refer is the extra appropriation of $10,000 for professional services - fees and expenses. The total of the amount appropriated in the Budget and the amount now asked for is $76,000 greater than the amount expended last year. What are the professional services which the Department expects to use and which will cost this extra amount? The additional appropriation involves only quite a small amount. The explanatory notes say that provision is made under this item for the cost of special professional services and for special fees and expenses associated with services provided from outside the Department. They say that the necessity for the marine operations centre project stems from concern about the adequacy of existing arrangements for handling marine search and rescue emergencies. I am concerned that this item is for professional services - fees and expenses; yet loaded into it is an additional requirement to cover the cost of a feasibility study in relation to the establishment of a central marine operations centre or other methods of conducting search and rescue operations. That has nothing to do with the heading of the item in the estimates, namely, professional services - fees and expenses. That matter should not be under this item at all. It seems to me that there is a padding out in here somewhere. 
I invite the Minister's attention to the fact that, if private legal practitioners are being consulted by this Department - I have no doubt that they are - the Depart* ment has been waiting for some considerable time for information from the crown law officers as to the constitutional ability of the Department to carry out certain functions. I suggest that if an amount of $322,000- that will be $332,000 if this vote is passed - is to be expended on legal expenses, perhaps some outside people could be used to advise the Department on its constitutional problems and so have them settled, because some of the questions have been before the AttorneyGeneral's Department for more than 2 years without an answer being supplied. Perhaps someone from outside could supply the answers a little more quickly and take some of the load off the AttorneyGeneral's Department. If we are spending this sort of money, let us spend it wisely and obtain the answers to questions that we require, and do not let this item be padded out with something connected with marine search and rescue operations. 
An extra appropriation of $64,000 is sought for incidental and other expenditure. The Budget appropriation represented an increase of about 35 per cent on the expenditure last year and the amount now requested is about 50 per cent of the amount expended last year. The amount expended in 1969-70 under this item was $128,973. The additional appropriation sought is almost $64,000. So the Department comes to us seeking an additional appropriation which will increase the total appropriation to an amount representing an increase of about 85 per cent on the previous year's expenditure. 
The TEMPORARY  CHAIRMAN (Senator Davidson)  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 I refer again to item 08, provision for professional services - fees and expenses. When it is preparing its estimates the Department, if it is going to engage professional engineers to advise on central marine operations and the method of conducting search and rescue operations, should put these things under a separate item. Tt should not mix them in with things that come under the heading of 'professional services - fees and expenses' unless it sets the matter out clearly in a way in which we can understand what sort of professional services are required. Upon first reading these estimates I took this expenditure to be for legal fees and that sort of thing because the Department does get quite a bit of legal assistance. 
I turn now to item 09, incidental and other expenditure. Taking the original estimate and the supplementary estimate, there will be about an 85 per cent increase over the sum expended in 1969-70. When one looks at the explanatory notes one finds a summary showing the necessity for the additional funds. They are to cover the cost of a transport conference to identify the problems of surface transport in Australia, particularly in goods movement, and to suggest solutions. The additional sum required for that is $15,000. Who are the people who make up this transport conference? Where do they meet? How many meetings are held? Is any information given to the Parliament on the findings of a conference of this nature? What are the problems? It is said that the money is sought to identify problems of surface transport in Australia and in goods movement and to suggest solutions. 
One of the big problems facing the Australian nation today is the cost of transport, particularly overseas freights. Does this item relate to an examination of the problems of surface transport on the wharves and the movement of cargoes to the wharves? Has this item anything to do with how surface cargoes are got to the wharves, how they are placed on the wharves, whether handling is economic and all that sort of thing? If that is so, then the nation will receive a service as a result of this expenditure. I would like to know a bit more about what is meant by a conference of this nature. In paragraph (b) of the explanatory notes it is stated: 
Specific advertising for positions in the newly created Bureau of Transport Economics ($17,430) plus a general increase in general advertising costs. 
The amount allocated is $29,700. 
 I am referring to Division 480, subdivision 2, item 09. During discussion  on  the Estimates late last year I questioned the Department about whether the Bureau  of  Transport Economics would take over the Bureau of Roads. The answer was no. Since then I have read some articles in the Press indicating that it is quite likely that the Bureau of Roads will be absorbed by the Bureau of Transport Economics. I would like some information about what positions are being filled in this Bureau  of  Transport Economics and where the advertising takes place. This raises the whole question of Government advertising and whether quite a lot of it could not be done by the Australian Broadcasting Commisison on its radio and television networks instead of boosting private enterprise operations in radio and television. Could not the Government use some of its own services for its own advertising? 1 throw this point in for good measure. 
 In the explanatory notes paragraph (d) refers to the provision of a tea service in a new office building in Sydney. It will cater both for the regional office and the Shipbuilding Division of the central office. An extra appropriation of $2,200 has been provided under this heading. I think some explanation is required of the Department as to what the taxpayers money is being spent on. If this amount is justified I do not raise any objections but I think this will require some justifying in the face of criticisms which have been made of various departments. 
Under Division 480, subdivision 3, item 01, free or concessional railway fares and freights, in the past 3 years the total amount expended was about $20,000. In' 1967-68 we spent just on $7,000 on this item. In 1968-69 we spent $6,000 and in 1969-70 we spent $7,000. In the Budget this year we appropriated $7,000. Now the Department has come back with a supplementary appropriation of $130,000. I think this is something which has to be looked at. I have read the explanatory notes on this item and they state: 'The foregoing outlines the purposes for which the original amount was appropriated and the additional requirement is to cover the cost of concessions which have now been introduced for travel by eligible pensioners over Commonwealth Railways.' What conditions are attached to the travel of pensioners on Commonwealth Railways? The Commonwealth Railways are a portion of the railways in Australia. There is the north-south railway, the Australian Capital Territory railway, the trans-continental railway from Port Pirie to Kalgoorlie and the railway in the Nothern Teritory. Another matter which I think requires some explanation is the qualification of eligibility in order to obtain a concessional fare on Commonwealth Railways. Do the States also grant concessional fares? Would a person travelling from Perth to Adelaide receive the concession between Kalgoorlie and Port Pirie but have to pay full fare from Perth to Kalgoorlie and from Port Pirie to Adelaide? What does this item mean? When did the scheme of concessional travel for eligible pensioners come into operation? 
I want to deal with 4 items that relate to Division 490 - Commonwealth Railways - Administrative expenses. I. refer to the additional estimates for the TransAustralian Railway, the Central Australia Railway, the North Australia Railway and the Seat of Government Railway. 1 notice that the appropriation for, administrative expenses in the Budget was .$1,143,000. A supplementary appropriation pf $295,000 is sought. This seems to me to be quite a lot of money for a supplementary appropriation. lt is about 27 per cent of the amount appropriated in the Budget. That part of the explanatory notes, which deals with the Commonwealth Railways states: 
Provision has been made for costs iri connection with extensive repairs to locomotive GM3 which was damaged in a collision at- Reid on 23rd April 1970. &gt; 
The Trans-Australian Railway's'- proportion of the cost of the repairs required and the incorporation of some other matters into the unit during re-building was $104,000. In relation to the Central Australia Railway, the additional cost is about $13,000. I ask: What is the cost of a new locomotive? If the locomotive was damaged to such an extent that it required this amount of repair work to be done before it could be put back into service, was it worth repairing or should we have taken the short cut, cut our losses and bought a new locomotive that would have served the people, instead of spending this money on repairing a locomotive that probably is not worth repairing anyhow? 
We find that $120,000 is . required for delayed debits in respect of dining car operations, laundry services, car cleaning, etc., performed by the Western Australian Government Railways which the Commonwealth Railways is required to bear a proportion of the cost. These have now been received and provision for this item and similar increased debits for trie, remainder of the year have been made, resulting in additional expenditure to the extent of approximately $120,000. Over what period have these debits from the Western Australian Government been incurred? How do the Commonwealth Railways accumulate a debit of $120,000 for services such as cleaning cars, laundry services and dining car operations? Is the Commonwealth Railways not self-contained in its dining car operations between Kalgoorlie and Port Pirie, or do we subsidise the Western Australian section of it between Kalgoorlie and Perth? What is all this about? lt seems to me that the explanations which have been given are not satisfactory. Do we have a reckoning with the Western Australian Government every year or do these expenses run on for years? 
I refer next to the proposed appropriation of $89,000 for administrative expenses for the Central Australia Railway. In respect of this item the explanatory note states: 
A proportion of the cost of repairs to locomotive GM3 being undertaken by the Clyde Engineering Company is chargeable to this Railway and additional provision has accordingly been made. 
We find from the explanatory notes that $104,000 is chargeable to the TransAustralian Railway, but we do not know how much of the $89,000 chargeable to the central Australia railway is a contribution to the repair of locomotive GM3. Is the locomotive worth repairing? What would be the cost of a new one? Does the Department have any provisional appropriation in the Budget to take care of repairs and maintenance, or does it just continue willy-nilly and trust to luck that no repairs or maintenance will be required? What is the position? Whatever the balance of the $89,000, the explanatory note states: 
Increased expenditure has been incurred in payments made to goods and livestock transfer contractors due to additional tonnages handled and increased wage payments to their employees as a result of the national wage case decision. 
I have not dealt with wages unless I have seen something outstanding about them. 
I refer next to the supplemenatary appropriation of $35,000 for administrative expenses for the North Australia Railway. This represents a 15 per cent increase in the appropriation. The explanatory note says that the reason for the increased provision under this vote is the extension of charter aircraft co-ordinated services now operative in the Northern Territory. What does this mean? Is the Department trying to run railways through the Northern Territory to co-ordinate with air transport, or is this item related in some way to the tourist industry? For what purpose is this co-ordination done? Is there any attempt throughout the various Commonwealth transport operations to co-ordinate the various types of transport? It would be ideal if we could accomplish this objective. If the co-ordination is in connection with aircraft tours, what proportion, if any, of the additional expenditure required to achieve the co-ordination is borne by the Australian Tourist Commission, or is the whole expense incurred attributable to the North Australia Railway? 
The other railway is the Seat of Government Railway for which there is an additional appropriation of $13,000 for administrative expenses. It seems -to me that this . is mixed up with some increase in traffic  rates applied by the New South Wales Government Railway because the explana- , tory note states: 
The rate per mile charged 'by the New South Wales Government Railway has also increased from 334.9c to 353.Sc operative from December 1970 and provision has accordingly been made for this greater expenditure. 
In December 1970 I asked questions about some of the additional charges and I was told that these expenses could not be taken into account in the general appropriation dealt with in the Budget because the estimates of the various departments had to be in the hands of Cabinet during May to enable the whole Budget to be put together during the winter recess for presentation to Parliament in August. But the Department knew about the increase in freight rates by the New South Wales Government Railway in December 1970. The Department should be able to make provision for this expenditure which it knows will be incurred, but it seems to me that the Department avoids taking account of the proposed increase, relying on being able to deal with it as a supplementary appropriation. 
I do not make any apologies for my examination of these estimates. This is tha first time that the Supplementary Estimates have really been examined. It is time that they were examined and time that the nation and the Parliament knew what was contained in them. The Minister said last Friday that perhaps he had supplied the Committee with too much information. I thank him for the information which has been supplied. It has been very interesting to find out what the various departments have been doing and to see their efforts to provide reasons for what they have done, although in many cases the efforts have not been satisfactory. 
I turn now to division 210 which deals with the Department of Customs and Excise. I refer to subdivision 1, item 01, salaries and allowances. The additional appropriation, required by the Department is $2,309,000. This represents an increase of 11 per cent on the original appropriation. The original appropriation was $20,541,000. The national wage case decision granted an increase of only 6 per cent, arid there was an increase in the salaries of Third Division officers under determination No. 355 of 1970. I ask the Minister: When was the decision in the determination given? Was it expressly stated that any increase granted in the determination, whether it was granted before, after or during the national wage case, would absorb any increases granted in the national wage case? What was the percentage increase under determination No. 355 of 1970? 
The item that mainly intrigues me is set out in the explanatory notes. The explanatory notes indicate that almost $900,000 is required as the cost of filling new positions and reclassifying the existing positions. What is the state of the Department if it does not know that its activities will require such a huge amount of money for filling new positions? I do not know what percentage of the $900,000 is required for new positions but I do know that a statement was made some few months ago by the then Prime Minister that there would be a brake put on recruitment into the Public Service in order to put a check on what was said to be an inflationary spiral existing in the Australian economy. But on examining the supplementary estimates for several of these departments I have found that there is provision for recruitment. Many young people have come to my office in Perth to ask me whether I could get them into various departments of the 
Commonwealth Public Service. When I contacted departments in Perth I was told that under instructions issued from Canberra they were not allowed to take on recruits. But then we find that there is provision in the supplementary estimates for this very thing. 
Whatever percentage of the $900,000 is used for the purpose of filling new positions, the balance is then to be used for reclassifying existing positions. I appreciate that people receive promotions in the various sections of the Department, but this does not come within the category of reclassification. When public servants want increases in salaries, very often they cannot get them through determinations and other means of wage fixing . within the Public Service so the whole section is reclassified and everybody moves up one step. This is not an uncommon practice in the Public Service. I have no objections to it at all, but in a period of inflation when we are all asked to cut down on spending - the Commonwealth Government, I suppose, is the biggest spender in Australia - and great play is made by the then Prime Minister of $75m being saved in Commonwealth expenditure, I find it difficult to understand when looking at these estimates that under this one item almost $lm is going down the drain. 
I now turn to subdivision 2, item 02, office requisites and equipment, stationery and printing. The Budget appropriation for this item, plus this supplementary appropriation, will increase the expenditure this year to $103,691 more than the expenditure last year. When I made notes about this I wondered why this increased expenditure would be required up to 30th June but I am now advised that it covers increased costs over the whole year, particularly where the item refers to increased post and telegraph charges. It is interesting to look at the expenditure on paper, letterheads and envelopes. A department should make ample provision for these things in its budget estimates. Surely it would not run out of them. Have the letterheads of the Department been changed so that something new has had to be printed? What is the position? It is only a small amount of $2,050 but this does not seem to me to be the kind of thing that should be provided for in the supplementary estimates. The Department claims that printing costs have been higher than was expected. There is an additional appropriation for printing of $35,000, and the Department says also that expenditure on general stores has been higher than was estimated. The additional appropriation for that item is $22,150. 
Expenditure on the purchase of office machines has been higher than was estimated and the additional expenditure is estimated at $24,100. It amazes me that these sorts of things can come from a department. If the Department wanted to justify this additional expenditure and say that printing costs have been higher because of wage increases or something of that nature, that would be all right. Let us examine it on that basis. Let the Department say, in effect: 'The expenditure on general stores has been increased because the storemen's wages have increased'. That would be something outside the control of the Department, but it does not seem to me that those sorts of things are outside its control. We require a little more information on these supplementary Estimates. I now wish to deal with item 11 relating to computer services. We are asked for a supplementary appropriation of $108,000. In 1969-70 we spent $54,522 and in August last we appropriated $55,000. This makes  a  total expenditure of $217,522. The explanatory notes are interesting. They state that provision is made under this item for the development of computer facilities for the Department - that is an admirable objective - and that at the time of preparing the original estimate a decision had not been reached by the inter-departmental committee and Cabinet on automatic data processing and on the future of the Department's ADP project. Accordingly, provision was made in Appropriation Act (No. 1) for only those costs for which the Department was firmly committed. Early in the current year Cabinet approved the continued development of the Department's ADP project. The additional appropriation is required for consultary assistance in the preparation of specifications and a detailed systems design. If this additional appropriation is approved we will have spent $217,522 and be no nearer to having computer services than we are now. When will we get something for our money? When will we have an expenditure by this Department which will return something to us? 
I know this is a very important department which is expanding because of certain events within the community. I think it requires computer services but we should have been looking at them long before 1969-70. Perhaps we were, but I cannot find any expenditure on this item before 1969-70. I now find we are spending almost $250,000 for nought, for advice. Surely there is some integration. Other departments have computer services. Surely we can get advice from them on the type of computer services which are required, the type of machines which should be installed and where they should be installed, as well as the conditions under which they should be installed instead of having this expenditure thrown onto one department without co-ordination with other departments. This will mean the taxpayer's money going down the drain and nothing being seen for it. 
I do not want to ask any more questions about the Department of. Customs and Excise. I come now to the Department of the Interior. I shall refer to division 350, subdivision 2, item 12, which relates to the fees of private surveyors, for which the additional appropriation sought by the Department is $50,500, but before I ask anything about that I invite attention to subdivision 2, item 03, in which an additional appropriation of $191,900 is sought for postage, telegrams and telephone services. Hie original appropriation in the estimates was for a sum of $2,200,000. The Department of the Interior covers a wide field of operations. It is like the Department of Works for which  Senator Wright  is responsible; the Department of the Interior acts on behalf of a lot of other departments. It does a lot of things for them, if we add all the additional appropriations sought by the various branches in the Department of the Interior for post office charges you will find that they come to just on half a million dollars. But it is strange that some departments seek an additional appropriation such as the one sought in division 350 - a sum of $191,900 - When other departments apparently are not going to have a breakdown in their telephone services even though postal, telephone and telegraph charges were increased in the Budget and were not allowed for in the Estimates. Some departments do not want extra appropriations in respect of this item. 
Somewhere along the line there has to be some explanation for this. One department is forced to ask for an additional appropriation in respect of increased charges resulting from increases in postal department charges. In fact it was said in respect of the Department of National Development that in some cases there would be extra use of these facilities because of extra staff employed. Yet other departments are asking for nothing more for telephone charges. Turning now to item 12, it is noted that there is an increase of approximately 25 per cent in survey fees. I want to know whether tenders were called for this survey work. If so, what was the variation in tenders? If there was no variation could this be taken to mean that this is a case of collusive tendering or can it be that survey charges are standardised by the professon throughout Australia? In the explanatory notes it is stated that consultant surveyors were engaged for work on the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway survey. This project was admitted to the 1970-71 survey programme in November 1970 and associated costs are recoverable from the Commonwealth Railways. We have just dealt with the Commonwealth Railways and their additional estimates did not include an appropriation to pay the Department of the Interior the amount necessary to recover its costs. The explanatory notes also state: 
an increase of approximately 25 per cent in the scale of fees charged by consultant surveyors in the Australian Capital Territory which was effective from 12 November 1970. 
Echoes of the medical profession. This is another crowd that can come along and apparently fix their own charges and rates. If you want their  services  you just have to pay. 
Is there any means of controlling the way in which surveyors fix their fees or are they allowed to fix them as they like and the taxpayer pays accordingly? It is a happy holiday for those who can do this. A 25 per cent increase in fees is a pretty substantial increase. If tenders were not called, the Government should call them for any survey work that it requires done. If there is collusive tendering we might be able to look at it under some appropriate legislation. I do not think that the taxpayer should be required to pay any level of fees that these people might want to charge or any increases in fees that they might want to make. Their work is not unimportant. I do not run down their work in any way. 
However 1 know that I cannot fix my fees. No one gives me the right to do that. I have to get 184 other people in this place to agree with me that they should be increased. Other people have to go before tribunals. Right throughout these estimates there are references to determinations made through the Public Service Board to increase the wages of public servants. They are pretty important people in the scheme of things and the scheme of democratic government. They have to go before a tribunal to get their fees fixed. The workers of Australia have to go before tribunals to get theirs fixed. Yet the surveyors will be telling us, as the doctors told us, that they will not abandon the right to fix their own fees. 
I turn now to division 354, item 01. I find that there is an extra appropriation sought of $56,800 for rent on behalf of the Parliament. The original appropriation was $238,200. That was the amount appropriated under the Bill for rent of premises by the Parliament. Where does the Parliament rent premises? What premises are they and for what purpose are they used? I could conceive that with the number of Senate select committees, standing committees and committees of the House of Representatives premises have to be used in various States. As the committees travel around the country they may have to pay rent for the premises they use when they sit. But this is the only avenue I can see where the Parliament would have to pay rent. I would be obliged if the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  who in this Chamber represents the Minister tor the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  could tell me what the rent is for. The total expenditure on rent over the 4-year period is about $55.5m. To me this seems an extraordinary amount for the Commonwealth to pay over a period of 4 years for the rent of premises. It seems that this situation will go on ad infinitum unless there is some urging of the Commonwealth to construct Commonwealth centres in places where they are required. I know that in Western Australia the Commonwealth Parliamentary Offices should have shifted into new premises on 1st January. We are not there yet. We do not know when we will move there. Appropriation is made in this Bill for rent for that purpose. But I do not know how it will work out. We are paying an extraordinary amount of money for rent on behalf of various departments. 
In respect of item 06, Department of Education and Science, the appropriation for 1970-71 was $294,700. Now the Department asks for an additional $86,000 to pay for rent. Is there a new branch in the Department? Where is it extending that it requires extra rented premises to the value of $86,000 this year? This is an extraordinary amount for the Department of Education and Science to pay in rent. But the position gets better as we go along. The Department of the Interior has an appropriation of $1,053,200. Now it wants an additional appropriation of $113,100 for the year. I would like to know how this extra expenditure comes about. If it is caused by an expansion of the Department then I can understand because additional premises are required. But- 1 would have thought that the extension of the department would have been planned long before this time of year. The expansion of the Department is not something which jumps about. It may rely upon the recruitment of certain staff but generally provision is made for the extension of the Department in the Budget. This situation does not apply to Government departments which might be called business departments like Trans-Australia Airlines and the PostmasterGeneral's Department which are expanding all the time. I refer to Government departments in which there could be some forward planning. 
In item 15, Department of Primary Industry, $126,200 was appropriated in the Budget for rent. Now the Department wants almost the same amount as a supplementary appropriation. It is asking for $109,400. What has been the big expansion in the Department of Primary Industry? Are the taxpayers, through the Department, paying for premises occupied by the Australian Wool Commission? That is the only new activity which I can see taking place in the Department of Primary Industry which may require provision to be made in the supplementary appropriation. It seems to me that this is a huge amount when compared with the amount appropriated in the annual Budget. Under item 16, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, there was an appropriation of $534,000. We are now asked for an addi tional appropriation of $143,000. Item 18 refers to the Department of Shipping and Transport. The appropriation in the Budget was $227,900 and we are now asked for an extra $70,600. The Department of Trade and Industry, under item 20, appropriated $281,000 but it now asks for an additional $78,500. 
The Department of the Treasury - this is an amazing situation - appropriated $4,367,800 for rent in the Budget but under item 21 it asks for an additional appropriation of $412,400. Where is the extension in the Department of the Treasury which requires this additional appropriation? Are we erecting a new taxation building somewhere? Part of the Commonwealth Taxation Office has moved into a new building in Perth. This is a huge amount of money for rent. Where are the premises and how much are we paying in rental which provides for this increased appropriation? At Budget time did hot the Department of the Treasury see that it would require additional space and that it would be expending more money? Why did it not- make provision for this amount instead of coming back to Parliament and asking for an additional $412,400? I have quite a lot of queries on the Department of the Interior. I do not want to get too far ahead of the Minister. If he would indicate at some time that he would like to answer some of the questions I shall stop and proceed later. 
 I wish to return to the appropriation for salaries and allowances in Division 351 - Ministers and Members of Parliament and Others. The explanatory notes provide the information that the appropriation of $15,400 is the additional sum required to provide for the increase of 6 per cent granted as a result of the 1970 national wage case. I want to alert the Minister and honourable senators that they should not expect an increase out of this appropriation. 1 turn now to the appropriation of $84,000 in Division 357 for administration of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. The appropriation of $860,000 in the Estimates was $330,000 greater than expenditure on this item in 1969-70. A House of Representatives election was held in 1969-70 and a Senate election was held in 1970-71. We are not aware of any further election to be held this year yet almost $400,000 more is sought this year than we expended on this item in 1969-70 when a House of Representatives election was conducted. Surely the Department should explain why such a huge increase in the appropriation is sought. The Department was aware when its estimates were prepared for the Budget last year that a Senate election would be held during this fiscal year and the appropriation would have been calculated accordingly. During 1969-70 when a House of Representatives election was held the Department expended only $530,000 on this item. Why is it that in the fiscal year in which a Senate election is conducted over $940,000 is to be expended? Are we so much harder or expensive to elect? I think an explanation is required. 
The Electoral Branch is seeking an additional $155,000 for Commonwealth elections and referenda. The provision in the Estimates was $175,000 greater than expenditure on the item for the previous year, so that, in effect, an additional $330,000 is being expended this year. A Senate election was conducted this financial year, but the item refers to elections and referenda. What referenda were held during 1970-71 that warranted an appropriation of $1.6m, the amount appropriated in the Estimates for Commonwealth elections and referenda? Now an additional amount of $155,000 is sought under the same heading. I hope that my memory is not all that bad, for I cannot recollect any referenda being held that would place an additional cost on the people, unless a referendum was held in connection with a particular industry. It seems that something crazy is going on and that there is some shifting of the Department. 
In Division 358 - Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology - an additional appropriation of $632,000 is sought for salaries and allowances for new positions. 
Does it relate to the engagement of extra staff, the reclassification of staff or both? The Department is seeking quite a considerable additional appropriation for the Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology. This is a rather expensive section of the Department. The estimates of the various Departments show that they make very heavy contributions to the Bureau of Meteorology. During the Estimates debate last year I questioned a contribution of about $4m made by the Department of Civil Aviation to the Bureau of Meteorology. I think it would be a useful exercise to go right through the Estimates and extract contributions made to the Bureau of Meteorology. 
I have mentioned before that the Bureau of Meteorology issues daily weather reports for the benefit of the people of Australia. These reports and forecasts are advertised on television by private enterprise. They are said to be sponsored by a cigarette company, an oil company, a bank or a detergent company, although the Government provides the funds to pay the scientists who make the predictions. I have asked before whether the companies who advertise that they sponsor the weather reports pay anything for them. I have been told that they do not. The Bureau makes the forecasts available and the television stations sell them as advertising time to the various companies. I can find no record in the Estimates of any payment by private enterprise television stations for the weather information which they sell to their customers. I object to the expenditure of the people's money on the Bureau of Meteorology - important as its work may be - simply so that the Bureau can supply weather forecasts to be sold by private enterprise for transmission over the air to the people. I think that the explanation given in respect of this appropriation in the explanatory notes itself requires some explanation. The explanatory note refers to the new positions approved by the Public Service Board; the 1970 national wage case; Determination No. 147 of 1970 - Retrospectivity of Observers' salaries; Determination No. 167 of 1970 - Technical Officers (Meteorology); Determination No. 355 of 1970 - Clerical/ Administrative and related salaries; and Determination No. 376 of 1970 - Salaries of Engineers, Architects, Examiners of Patents, Research 
Scientists, etc. I am not anxious to inquire into salaries; the only reason I refer to this matter is that it seems that there are many determinations there that have to be taken care of. 
I draw attention in Division 358 to the extra appropriation of $200,000 in respect of postage, telegrams and telephone services. I also refer to the appropriation of $12,000 for motor vehicles - hire, maintenance and running expenses, including use of private vehicles for departmental purposes. The appropriation in the Budget was $88,000, and the additional appropriation asked for is $12,000. I have been told by various people who use these vehicles that there has been a fall-off in the use of vehicles by the various Commonwealth departments. Some of the. drivers I have spoken to have told me that there has been a fall of almost 25 per cent in their weekly income because the various departments are not using these vehicles as much as they did prior to the then Prime Minister's statement in February; yet we find that there is an additional appropriation in this one. Department of about 14 per cent for the current year. I would like the Minister to tell me how many vehicles are hired and whence they are hired. I know that when one wants to use a Commonwealth vehicle in Western Australia one gets it from the Department of Supply, not the Department of the Interior. Has there been any fall-off in the use of vehicles by the Department of the Interior, and has there been a cutback in the overtime paid by the Department to drivers? I have been told that it is the cutback in overtime that has reduced the drivers' weekly earnings by about 25 per cent. 
In Division 360, of the total extra appropriation of $343,700 sought for salaries and allowances only $54,800 is attributable to the national wage case and Determination No. 355, which was the Third Division determination. Is the balance for reclassifications and additional positions? I would like some explanation of this. It is also noted that in two places the words 'accelerated filling of vacant positions' and 'accelerated promotion' are used. What is the purpose of the acceleration? Is the Department not involved in the economy drive against inflation? We find that for the accelerated filling of vacant positions $110,000 is appropriated, and that for the accelerated promotion of 8 film production assistants $16,000 is appropriated. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the passenger load factor on TransAustralia Airlines direct Flight No. 593 between Perth and Melbourne over the past 12 months. 
 Mr Temporary Chairman- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Kennelly)  -  Senator Cant,  a point of order is being raised. Will you please resume your seat. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - I thank  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack for bringing it to my notice. I trust that  Senator Cant  will address the Chair in the correct manner. 
Speaking to the point of order, I have before me Senate Notice Paper No. 100 for Wednesday, 12th May 1971, and I find that  Senator Kennelly  is listed as one of the Temporary Chairmen of Commitees. Nevertheless, I will forgo the orders of the day and address my colleague as  Mr Acting Deputy President. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Will you proceed with the business before the chamber? 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I wish to establish my position. We are about to consider Australia's ratification of the International Tin Agreement. I believe that international commodity agreements are good for Australia, provided Australia has a fair say in what those commodity agreements will be. We find that one of the objectives of the International Tin Agreement is to provide an international rationalisation system for the sale of tin. The Agreement is designed to assist in the fair distribution of tin on the world markets and to help to increase the production of tin, especially as it relates to the earnings of the developing tin producing countries. These are admirable objectives, and I will refer to them a little later. The Agreement is for a 5-year period, but it may be extended successively for a period or periods of not more than 12 months. So it could have effect for a longer period than 5 years. 
There are 2 ways in which the Agreement can be ratified. The first is to ratify it in accordance with paragraph (a) of article 46 of the International Tin Agreement. Article 46 of the Agreement deals with definitive entry into force. Paragraph (a) states: 
This Agreement shall, for the Governments which have deposited instruments of ratification, approval or acceptance, enter into force definitely as soon after 30 June 1971 as such instruments have been deposited on behalf of Governments representing at least six producing countries as set out in annex A holding together at least 950 of the votes set out in that annex and at least nine consuming countries as set out in annex B holding together at least 300 of the votes set out in that annex. 
This seems to me a pretty onerous kind of definitive ratification of the Agreement when the 6 depositing countries that are required to ratify the Agreement have to control at least 950 of the 1,000 votes that are available to the producing countries. I think there are only 7 such countries listed in annex A. Article 46 then deals with the amount of tin produced by the producing countries and with those 950 votes. Australia has 32 votes so that if Australia did not ratify, the Agreement could still come into force. The Democratic Republic of the Congo has 49 votes so if it did not ratify, the Agreement could come into force. If any of the other producing countries failed to ratify the Agreement it could not come into force because 950 votes would not be available. Bolivia controls 169 votes out of 1,000. Indonesia controls 93. Malaysia controls 447. The Federal Republic of Nigeria controls 66 and Thailand controls 144. The International Tin Agreement could very easily be upset by one country's standing out so the 950 votes would not be available to ratify the Agreement. 
The second method of ratification is by provisional entry in accordance with paragraph (a) of article 47. Paragraph (a) states: 
If the conditions for the definitive entry into force of this Agreement laid down in para graph (a) of article 46, have not been satisfied, this Agreement shall, for the Governments which have deposited instruments of ratification, approval or acceptance or have given notification of intention to ratify, . . .  1 do not know how one can anticipate what a government may do. The paragraph continues:   . . approve or accept, enter into force provisionally on the day following the date of termination of the Third Agreement, . . . 
The date of termination of the Third Agreement is 30th June this year. The paragraph continues:   . . provided that such instruments or notifications have been deposited with the depositary Government: By 30 June 1971 or, if the Third Agreement is extended, by the date of termination of that Agreement; and On behalf of Governments representing at least six producing countries as set out in annex A holding together at least 950 of the votes set out in that annex, and at least nine consuming countries as set out in annex B holding together at least 300 of the votes set out in that annex. 
For each signatory Government which has deposited an instrument of ratification, approval or acceptance of, or has given notification of intention to ratify, approve or accept, this Agreement while it is provisionally in force, the Agreement shall enter into force provisionally on the date of the deposit of such instrument or notification. 
Even so, the provisional ratification of the Agreement is still controlled by the 950 votes being available. I emphasise that only 2 countries need stand out and the Agreement cannot come into force. This seems to me a pretty heavy onus to carry. Paragraph (b) of article 47 ensures that the provisional ratification of the Agreement is limited, because it states: 
If, within six months after the termination of the Third Agreement, this Agreement has entered into force provisionally but not definitively as laid down in article 46, the Executive Chairman shall as soon as possible convene a meeting or meetings of the Council to consider the position. If, however, the entry into force remains provisional the Agreement shall be terminated not later than one year after the provisional entry into force. 
Even a provisional entry, if the 950 votes are obtained on a promise of ratification, cannot continue in operation for a period of more than 6 months. These are points that I bring to the notice of the Senate because I think that we should have something firmer in the international marketing arrangements for our products. It has to be remembered that it was not so many years ago that Australia led the world in the production of tin. Then for a considerable period Australia was an importer of tin. We have only just returned to the stage at which we are an exporter of tin. The Opposition thinks that there should be something firmer in these marketing arrangements.  Senator Cotton,  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  in his second reading speech, stated: 
The United States, which is the world's largest consumer of tin, is not a member. However, it has participated fully in the negotiations and has co-operated with the International Tin Council, especially on matters relating to releases from its present stockpile surplus. 
This is an amazing situation. When I look at annex B to the Agreement - I find that the voting rights of the various governments to come to an agreement on this world marketing situation are such that 1,000 votes are allocated to the consuming countries. Of those, 315 are available to the United States of America. Almost onethird of the votes that are available to the consuming countries are allocated to the United States of America. Under article 46 300 votes are required from the consuming countries to bring the International Tin Agreement into operation. The United States, by her own vote, can bring the Agreement into operation providing 950 votes are available from the producing countries. Yet the United States of America is not prepared to ratify the International Tin Agreement. She is able to control it because she has one-third of the votes of the consuming countries. She is able to bring it into force by having the surplus of the votes of the consuming countries. Yet she is not prepared to ratify it. It seems to me that the United States is prepared to enter into negotiations with other world producers and consumers of tin to fix the price at which that commodity shall bc sold on the world market but then reserves to herself the right to stand outside the agreement, which she is capable of influencing, and to buy tin on the world market at prices less than the international agreement price. 
What is the position of countries which are producing this commodity and relying on the production of it? I do not refer so much to Australia, because our exports amount to only $12m a year. They are  a  drop in the ocean in our total overseas earnings. I refer more to developing countries such as Bolivia, Malaysia and Thailand. Bolivia produces 16.98 per cent of the world's supply, Malaysia 45.83 per cent and Thailand 14.56 per cent. They are subject to an agreement which the largest consumer of tin in the world is able to influence. That consumer is able to bring an international agreement into operation and then reserve to herself the right not to abide by the rules although she has taken part in and exercised a large influence on the making of them. For those reasons I believe that we should be looking at this Agreement much more closely than we have looked at it over the years. If we find that people who are able to go to the negotiating table and to exercise a large influence in arriving at an agreement then want to stand outside it, we should be asking the reasons why they want to stand outside it. 
I do not believe that the United States plays the game in any way on the international trade scene. In particular, she does not play the game as far as Australia is concerned. She has heavy tariffs on the importation of many of our goods and is not prepared to admit our base metals - lead and zinc - into the country at all. In this case, to suit her own ends, she influences the International Tin Agreement and thereafter stands outside it. I believe that we should look at this Agreement very much more closely in the future. We should send people to negotiate. We should tell people who want to sit around the negotiating table and influence decisions on world marketing that if they are not prepared to ratify the agreement they should not take part in the arrangements. The Labor Party does not oppose the Bill. 
Perhaps I can be allowed the liberty extended to  Senator Kane  just to state that the distributors in Victoria have to purchase liquefied petroleum gas from the refineries at $35 a ton whilst the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and the Esso company sell it to Japan at $14.50 a ton. That is the complete story. The Japanese can buy our oil resources at less than half the price at which we can buy them. 
We are dealing with some reports from the Tariff Board. As one who belongs to a political party that believes in the protection of industry, I do not want to be overcritical of the Board; but I want to attract the attention of the Senate to the 19th March 1971 issue of the bulletin 'Overseas Trading'. At page 1 12 it can be found that at 9th March 1971 there were 61 references before the Tariff Board. These are references that have not been dealt with by the Board. They date back to 1965. I do not place all the blame for this long delay on the Board. I place the blame for it on the Australian Government. I believe that the Government does not provide the Board with sufficient facilities, both physical and economic, to enable it to carry out the job we want it to carry out for us. In my opinion, it does an excellent job insofar as it has the facilities to do so. 
The Board has been given permission to engage an extra 15 expert staff, but up to this time it has not been able to recruit that extra staff. My information from the Board is that it expects to be able to recruit all 15 experts by the end of November. Perhaps the Board is able to say better that I am whether that increase will provide sufficient staff to enable it to do the job we want it to do. 
We are very proud of the fact that our secondary industries are expanding; that we are becoming a. large manufacturing nation, and exporter pf manufactured goods. In manufacturing. we are in competition with countries that are not operating at the. same standard pf living as we are. Those industries require protection at least until. they get on their feet. In many cases they will continue, to require protection. But that is not to say that we should be allowing references to the Tariff Board to be delayed for periods up to 6 years. That is quite wrong. There, have been some improvements. When I asked questions of the representatives of the Tariff Board during the consideration of the Estimates last year, I was told that the delay period with respect to references averaged 2 years. This year, when the Additional Estimates were being considered, I .was advised that the delay period had been reduced to 14.4 months, or near enough to 15 months. But the delay period will, .fluctuate according to the . size of the references with which the Board has to deal. If it receives a reference that will take 4 to 5 months to inquire into, the Board will be able to deal with a lesser number of references in that year. So, we cannot put an actual figure on the extent of the delay, but we can see the delay in respect of particular references. My complaint is about the delay in respect of particular references. 
There is another matter that I want to bring to the notice of the Senate. In the course of my questioning of the representatives of the Tariff Board during consideration of this year's Additional Estimates,  Mr Robertson,  representing the Board, gave an explanation of some of the reasons for the delay. As reported at pages 158 and 159 of the Estimates Committees Hansard of 22nd April 1971, he said: 
One of the difficulties which faces the Tariff Board is the delay in obtaining key  information  from witnesses. I do not know how widely this problem is known but a survey was conducted within the Board of 74 references on which it had made inquiries. This was included in the annual report for the year 30th June 1969. The Board found that the average delay in the submission of key evidence beyond the scheduled time which the Board had laid down was from 10 to 11 weeks in every case, and in some cases the delays ranged as long as 12 months. This is a real handicap to the Board in expediting its work. Unfortunately it is a problem which has been there for some time and which I feel is accentuated in particular cases where emergency duties operate. This seems to reduce . the sense of urgency on the part of some witnesses to forward their evidence so that the Board can examine it. - 
What that means  is  thai,  when an industry makes an application for tariff protection and the appropriate Minister then makes a reference to the Tariff Board to ascertain whether protection should be given, the industry is not in a position to provide the evidence required by the Board to enable it to settle the matter. This seems to me to be a disgrace.  I  suggest that measures should be devised by the Government and applied by regulation or introduced by the Tariff Board which should give a direction, that evidence must be supplied to the Board upon request within a reasonable time, depending upon the type of evidence that the Board requires. If .evidence is not supplied within the time laid down by the Board punitive action should be taken against those who have been required to supply the evidence. The Board would not be unreasonable in applying a measure such as this and it would not impose undue hardship on industry in requiring it to provide evidence. There would always be an opportunity for an industry to inform the Board that it was unable to furnish the details required within the time laid down and that it required a further 3 weeks or a month perhaps. I do not think the Board would be unreasonable if an application of that nature were made to it. 
When there is a delay of up to 12 months in providing evidence required by the Board it becomes a disgrace and an imposition on the people of Australia who eventually have to pay the higher, tariffs. The tariffs become part of the prices for goods which people have to pay. There should not be delays of this nature. In the passage which I read to the Senate,  Mr Robertson  referred particularly to indus tries which have sought protection through the Special Advisory Authority. In most cases their applications have been granted. In an emergency the Special Advisory Authority will give protection. How can he do otherwise when he has 30 days only in which to examine an industry and present a report to the Government? If honourable senators look at the reports from the Special Advisory Authority they will find that usually the recommendation is for protection. 
They are still recommendations for protection and place a further imposition on the people who buy the goods. The price increases whether or not the added protection is meagre and people have to pay that increased price. When the time comes for the Tariff Board -to conduct a full inquiry we find that the industry delays presenting evidence which would enable the Board to examine the situation and say whether the industry needed support. I am one who agrees with support for industry, especially when the industry has a high labour factor. I would go so far as to support an uneconomic industry if it had a high ratio of employment. 
The charter of the Tariff Board provides for economic and efficient industries. Many industries remain inefficient because it suits them better not to keep themselves up to date with the latest machinery and techniques available to produce goods. Some of them have been getting protection since the days of the depression. In some cases the protection afforded an industry has not been examined and cannot be examined. It is only the Tariff Board which can initiate an examination through an industry making application for increased protection. That is the only way that references come before the Board. 
Yes, and the reports of the Board are available to honourable senators. I do not intend to delay the Senate very long, but 1 want to say a few words more. I think we must look at this subject in a proper perspective. The Government must take the initiative and see that we have a Tariff Board which is capable and which is willing and able to do the job. We want the Board to function in the most efficient manner. Until that happens we will not be able to say that we have proper protection for industry, proper protection of employment and proper protection of the people who buy the goods. I have found that in many instances the Board has recommended protection for an industry when the purpose of the protection has been to protect profits rather than to protect the industry. It will be found in many instances that shortly after an industry is given increased protection through the imposition of higher tariffs, import restrictions or by some other means, out comes a balance sheet showing increased profits for the year. In many cases we are protecting profits, but we should not be doing that. This is a matter that needs consideration. 
What industry coming before the Tariff Board with an application for increased protection will say to the Board that if it receives the protection it is seeking it guarantees that it will not increase the price of the goods that it manufactures and sells? No industry does this. In very many cases it will be found that no sooner is protection given by the Tariff Board than up goes the price of the goods. There is no way to prevent this happening because the Government will not move into the area of price control. These are the things that should be looked at by the Government because it is in ways like this that the people of Australia are being exploited and industries are remaining uneconomic and inefficient. Until such time as the Government takes action in this area we will be paying higher tariffs than we should be paying for the protection of Australian industry. 
I want the industries of Australia to grow; I want the industries to employ workers; I want the workers to receive reasonable wages; but I do not want to see tariff protection given merely to protect profits. I do not want tariff protection to be given to industries so that they may lock out competition in order to make greater profits. I do not want to see a situation in which industries apply to the Tariff Board for protection and, no sooner do they get protection than they increase the prices of their products, revealing that they did not require the protection in the first place. I want the Government to take some action against people who make applications to the Tariff Board and then delay for up to 12 months providing the evidence required by the Board. These are some of the complaints that I have with respect to the Tariff Board. I hope that these matters will be rectified in the near future. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. When compiling the answer to the question asked by  Senator Buttfield  relative to trade with Taiwan and continental China, will the Minister list the goods upon which trade is restricted with continental China in order that a proper and realistic comparison can be made? 
I think that there is a lot of duck shoving going on. The Minister has said that small businessmen will receive assistance under the Bill, and the Schedule, I take it. I would like the Minister to point out where it is indicated in the Schedule that the small businessman is to be assisted. I draw attention to the remarks that the Minister made a moment ago. What did he mean when he said that probably other legislation will be brought in to  assist the service industries, the other people who live in the rural communities? The Minister's final remark was that the States will assist them. Is it the intention of the Commonwealth to make money available to the States in some other Bill to provide this assistance? If the Minister can answer those 2 questions I would be very pleased. 
 I draw the attention of honourable senators to Part IV of the Schedule to the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill. Clause 3 of Part IV reads as follows: (31 Nature of Assistance 
A loan on such conditions as to interest rate, if any, and repayment as are determined by the Authority up to a maximum of $1,000 in any' one case. 
First of al I want to be critical of the amount that the Government is making available for rehabilitation. In a State like Western Australia, $1,000 would not even pay for the removal of furniture to the city where these people would have to go to work. The money is not a grant. It is a loan, with whatever interest may be attached to it Therefore it is of little use as a rehabilitation measure for the people who are eligible to receive' it. Let us look at what people are eligible for assistance under Part V. Clause 2 sub-clause (a) reads as follows: 
The applicant's property must have been purchased by an adjoining owner who has been assisted under the farm build-up provisions to make the purchase or the applicant must have been unable te secure assistance under the debt reconstruction provisions because his property is assessed not to have sound prospects of long term commercial viability. 
In the first place he can only be joined on four sides because only 4 people are able to make an offer of purchase for his property. That is the first limitation; he has to be joined. Secondly, it has to be a viable proposition over the long term. I do not think very many people will qualify under this provision for rehabilitation. What I want to draw attention to is that for every farmer who leaves his property,  3i  families have to leave the town. What provision is the Government making to assist the farm workers, the people who depend upon the prosperity of the farming areas, to rehabilitate themselves? What is the Government doing to assist the small businessman who goes broke and is unable to carry on his business in the rural area? These are the rural votes which the Country Party relies upon but what is it doing to try to assist these people to rehabilitate themselves? Are these people to get this $1,000 by way of loan, grant or any other means in order that they may bring themselves to the city and get another job? The Democratic Labor Party is not interested in assisting them because that Party only gets a few votes from around the suburbs of the towns. Forty per cent of those are preferences. 

 - Senator Little would not know what this is all about. The fact is that there is a howl every time something happens to the rural industries but nothing is said when something happens to those who live in the rural communities, who are part of the rural communities and upon whom the rural industries are dependent for the services that they provide. They are just thrown to the wind. They do not get any consideration in this Bill which provides $100m for rehabilitation of. people with farming properties. In any case the $100m is not of any use because it will be payable only to those who are viable. A person who is not in a viable position gets nothing out of this anyhow. Whatever good the Country Party is doing, it is only supporting another set of subsidies to be paid to the people who do not need them. 
The Country Party forgets all about the people who have been their servants all along. What about the railway people who serve them and the road transport people who will not be able to work in these areas? Is there any provision for the rehabilitation of these people? Not one bit. So long as the Government is handing out money to farmers, the Country Party is quite satisfied. It is not satisfied to be helping other people in the community. Therefore, this Bill should be condemned. 
The Government is completely heartless when it fails to take into consideration the great majority of the population in the country areas, these small businessmen and others who make up the rural communities. They are not given one piece of consideration and they should remember when they go to the polls that they are the people who are forgotten every time, despite the fact that they comprise seveneighths of the population in country areas. 
I do not wish to delay the Senate for any great length of time, but I want to direct the attention of the Senate to ah article that appeared in last Saturday's Australian' under the big headlines 'Big Bass Strait Crude Shipment goes to US'. The article states: 
The largest shipment of local crude oil ever loaded in Australia shipped quietly out of Westernport, Victoria, last week - apparently bound for the west coast of the US. 
The shipment, in the large 96,000 tons dwt tanker, 'Oswego Glory', was for Mobil Oil and carried 730,000 barrels of Bass Strait crude. 
It seems likely that Mobil Oil, which is a refiner in Australia, would have made a profit out of the shipment 
Other refineries, most of which are foreignowned, will be in a similar position if they can obtain an export licence from the Customs and Excise Department for shipments. 
However, the producers who discovered the oil cannot take advantage of higher overseas prices as their crude must be offered to local refiners. 
At ibc local price set for Bass Strait crude of $2.05 a barrel, Mobil's shipment is valued at $1.5m 
Prices for Australian crude however, are now below those ruling overseas, particularly following the recent hike in the Middle East crude prices. Yet the present price for local crude is set until 1975. 
In California, where the Mobil shipment is thought to be bound, the post price for oil of similar quality to Bass Strait crude ranges between SUS3.75 and $US3.81 a barrel. 
While shipping cost to the US would absorb a large portion of this differential it should still be profitable to ship erode bought in Australia. 
The Government, through Customs, is believed to be adopting a general policy at present that refiners can export -  
I direct particular attention to this -  up to 20 per cent of their local crude allocation. 
As Esso-BHP alone are currently producing 300,000 barrels a day from Bass Strait, this would mean the refiners could theoretically export 60,000 barrels a day. 
It is extremely doubtful that refiners would obtain permission to export anywhere near that level, but any exports seem likely to be profitable al the expense of the producers, and, ultimately, the public. 
 Japan is currently showing great interest in taking regular supplies of Australian crude, and would probably be prepared to pay higher prices than currently ruling. 
Pollution is a real concern in Japan and large quantities of Minas crude from Indonesia, which is low in sulphur content, is imported to Japan at $A2.21 a barrel. 
Bass Strait is also low in' sulphur content and of similar quality as Minas crude. A recent Japanese mission to Australia showed interest in obtaining Australian crude. 
The Mobil shipment is not the first time local crude has been exported - although it is easily the largest. 
In mid- 1967 Mobil shipped about 145,000 barrels of Barrow Island crude to Singapore. 
This was at a time when the price for Australian crude was $US3.50 a barrel. The article continues: 
About 3 months ago H. C. Sleigh shipped around 240,000 barrels of Bass Strait crude to Japan. 
I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  the following question with respect to the shipment of H. C. Sleigh crude: 
Has H. C. Sleigh Ltd exported to C. Itoh and Co. of Japan 230,000 barrels of crude oil from Bass Strait: if so, who issued the export licence, special licence or export permit that allowed the export of this amount of crude oil. 
The answer was: 
No. However, the Department of Customs and Excise has issued the necessary permission to the company to export a quantity of crude oil to Japan. 1 understand the export is to take place shortly. 
According to the article the shipment was made 3 months ago. I received the answer to my question on 25th February. It is not yet- 25th May. I also asked the Minister: 
Did H. C. Sleigh have to pay $3.50 or $2.06 or a combination of these prices per barrel for the oil. 
It must be remembered that under the agreement distributors in Australia had to take a quota of Australian production of oil in accordance with the amount that they distributed. A quantity of H. C. Sleigh's crude oil would have been built up during the time when the price was $3.50 a barrel and some of -it would have been built up during the time when the price was $2.06. I understand that the price at present is $2.05 per barrel for crude. I wanted to know the price that H. C. Sleigh received for the crude oil which it sold to Japan. The answer I received was: 
It is of course public knowledge that the current price of Gippsland crude oil is $2.05 per barrel. However, it is not ;the practice to disclose details of business transactions of companies dealing with the Department of Customs and Excise and accordingly I do not propose to disclose the price which H. C. -Sleigh paid or are to receive for this shipment of oil. . 
I only needed to know what quantity was built up under the old price and what quantity was built up under the new price to ascertain what H. C. Sleigh paid per barrel of crude oil. The oil from Bass Strait is an Australian national resource, lt belongs to the people. It does not belong to this Liberal Government to dispose of how and where it will. It is a national asset of the people of Australia. Yet we are unable to find out at what price Australia's assets are being , sold. I have asked other questions about oil and gas from Bass Strait. I have asked the Government at what price liquid ^petroleum gas from Bass Strait v/as being sold and it has refused to give me an answer as to the amount received per ton. The Government has refused to tell me whether an export licence had been issued, whether a special licence had been issued, or whether a licence was required. I finally obtained the information that it would have to be contained on a manifest of the companies which ship the oil. I obtained the price through the Bureau of Census and Statistics and I found that Australia was selling liquid petroleum gas to Japan for $14.50 per ton whilst the people of Australia had to pay $35 per ton. 
This is what is happening to Australia's crude oil. By a set of fortuitous circumstances the price paid for Australian crude oil is probably the lowest in the world. The fortuitous circumstances .ire that a Prime Minister entered into an agreement with Esso-BHP but he did not bother to call upon the Australian Oil and Gas Corporation Ltd or WAPET to take part in the negotiation of a price. It was a deal between the Prime Minister and Esso-BHP. That was the price fixed at that time supposedly in relation to the import parity price. The price fixed was $2.06 a barrel after 17th September 1970. Nevertheless at the time the Prime Minister entered into this agreement with Esso-BHP  Dr Hunter  of the Australian National University estimated that the import parity price was $1.70; and that included a differential for quality. At the time it was thought that Australia was making a very bad deal by agreeing to a price of $2.06 but, with increased freight and other charges such as harbour charges and a rise in the price of oil from the Middle East, it now turns out that Australia's price was a very good price. It was no credit to this Government that the price turned out as good as it did. 
But now the price is so good that the refinery companies - Mobil Oil Australia Ltd is the big offender - are able to buy Australian crude oil at $2.05 per barrel, ship it half way around the world and make a profit, f have proposed this question before: ls Australia so affluent in its natural resources that it can afford to export oil? At no time has it been expected that the flow of oil from Bass Strait and from WAPET and AOG in Queensland will exceed 60 per cent of Australia's requirements. That means we still have to import 40 per cent of our requirements. Irrespective of the amount of oil that we are able to recover from these oil basins we are unable, because of the quality of the oil, ever to become self sufficient in our crude oil requirements because Australian oil does not produce some of the raw residues which are required in this country for other purposes. But the amount of crude oil we expect to have to continue to import to extract the heavy residues is 10 per cent to 15 per cent; so we are still down the drain by about 25 per cent to 30 per cent of our requirements for light fuel oil. Yet we are able to export it around the world. For every bar rel  of  Australian  oil  we export we  will  have to import 1.25 barrels  of  heavy residue oil to produce the same amount  of  the light residues such  as  petroleum, aviation fuel and kerosene. 
There have been 7 increases  in  the price  of  petrol  in  Australia since the discovery  of  crude oil  in  Bass Strait. Only recently the Prices Commissioner  in  South Australia, who has the greatest say  in  this matter, gave  a  further increase  in  the price  of  crude oil on the basis that the increase  in  the price of crude oil from the Middle East required an increase  in  price  of  petrol  in  Australia. While we are selling cheaper oil around the world the people  of  Australia are not able to take full advantage  of  the amount  of  high grade crude oil that  is.  available to them. In my opinion this  is a  scandal. I have noticed  in  reading some  of  the questions asked  in  this place that there has been  an  attempt to ascertain what the finding  of  oil  in  Australia means to Australia. On 25th February  Senator Young  asked  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson this question: 
Yesterday  I  asked  the  Leader of  the  Government in  the  Senate  a  'question regarding the difference between the price of imported oil and  the  price  per  barrel of oil from  Bass  Strait and other indigenous oil.  I  asked what the saving would  be to the  Australian nation, and, further  the  difference  in the  price of 'petrol  if  indigenous oil were sold  at the  same price  as  imported oil. Does  the  Minister have  an.  answer  to that  question? 
Of course the Minister had an answer. He said: 
Yes. I  promised to'  seek  some information and  I  have been supplied with it.  The  question  was: 
What  is the  difference between  the  price  per barrel  of crude oil now imported  and the  price per barrel fixed for oil from  Bass  Strait  and  other indigenous areas?  The  answer is  that the  present price of indigenous crude oil.  was  based  on the  import parity price for imported crude oil in  1968. 
This  is  a peculiar way of answering the question. He went  on:  Leaving aside the quality differential- 
Which  is  the advantage  in  Australian  Oil-  determined for Australian oil, the import parity price  in  relation to which' the Australian price is set for  5  years,  is $1.89  per barrel. 
When I look at the formula, which  is  set out  in  a document which I will later seek leave to have incorporated  in  Hansard, I see that the price under that formula  is  $1.80 and not $1.89. to this fixed base of $1.80 per barrel - it cannot be altered, it is a fixed base - is added a sum for quality differential estimated at 26c calculated in accordance with the modified Nelson formula upgraded as agreed. It has since been downgraded because it is now 25c and $2.05 a barrel. That is the first instance where the Minister was misleading in his information. He continued: 
If overseas prices and freight increases which have taken place since that time are taken into account the import parity price today would be $2.31 per barrel . . . 
He does not say whether this is the import parity price plus the quality differential or not: That is left blank but my reading of it would be that it does not include the quality differential. He continued further: - an increase of 42c per barrel.. The overseas price will increase year by year. Assuming that present freight rates remain the same, the price will be $2.65 by 1975- . 
This is a build up for a good deal made by the former Prime Minister- an increase of 76c over the basic price of indigenous crude oilEven supposing that the Minister and his advisers are correct in making the assumption that this will be the price of oil in 1975 how much more important does it become that Australian crude oil be not exported and that the Australian people be allowed to take advantage of the fact that a fortuitous deal has been made between the Government and Esso-BHP? I think that there should be some questions asked and some explanations given as to how these export licences are issued. The Minister continued: 
The second question was: What is the annual saving to Australia as a result of this difference. It is expected that the consumption of crude oil in Australia during 1971 will be approximately 190 million barrels. If supplies of indigenous crude were not available and Australia were fully dependent on overseas crude oil, the recent overseas price rise would increase Australia's import bill for crude oil by $63m over a 12-monlh period. However, this amount will increase progressively with further overseas price rises, which have already been agreed upon, and the expected growth of refinery requirements. 
If the oil distributors are to be allowed to continue to export Australia's crude because of its quality and price end because of the profits that can be made out of shipping it out of Australia then Australia will have no alternative but to permit those who require the products of the oil industry to import oil at the prices that operate in the various countries, in the main the countries of the Middle East and Indonesia. Before very long it will be found that there will be further applications to the South Australian Prices Commissioner for increases in the price of petrol because of the increased price, the increases in freights and the increases in harbour charges that will apply to imported oil. The Australian people will not be able to take advantage of having a lower priced oil in this country. When the price of oil was fixed at $2.05 there was much said about an increase because the price was fixed so high. It was said that Australian motorists would have to pay between 3c and 5c a gallon extra for their petrol. 
It was said that' if Australia wanted to develop an indigenous oil industry then it would have to be prepared to pay more for its petrol and the balance would be worked out as a saving on bur balance of payments. But now we find that we have the cheap oil and we are not going to be allowed to make the fullest use of it. We will of course refine quite an amount of it, but we will not be allowed to make the fullest use of the fact that we have approximately 60 per cent, for a period of about 4 years, of our own requirements. We will be exporting it and the oil companies will, of course, . continue to try to export it and make profits on the export of it. In answer to a question earlier today directed to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  stated that a recent article in the 'Economist' revealed the financial operations of some of the major oil companies. The Minister said that it revealed that they were not making high profits and in many oases were losing money. I have not seen the article but I would direct the Minister's attention to a book in the Parliamentary Library titled The Role of the Multi-National Company in Developing Countries - the Oil Industry'. 
 Edith Penrose. It is the most complete survey of the international oil industry and the methods used by the international oil companies to hide their profits that I know of. They do this not only to show that they are not making  a  lot of money but also to avoid taxation. Their methods include transferring money from one line of activity to another. The line of activity where the lowest income tax is payable is where the greatest profits are made. If the Minister makes a study of this book he will find out all the rackets that the oil companies get up to to try and convince people that they do not make money. For the 6 years prior to Australian indigenous oil coming on the market every refining and distributing company in Australia was running at a loss or at a profit of only I or 2 per cent. In the first year that Bass Strait oil started to come on to the market and Barrow Island was at top flow their profits increased by up to 1 5 per cent because they could , no longer hide them in the transport costs. That was the sort of racket that the oil companies got up to.  I  do not believe that they are operating for the good  of  the people.  I  do not believe that the oil companies of this world - this biggest cartels in the world - are great philanthropists and- that they have hundreds of thousands of millions of dollars of capital wrapped up in this industry for the good of the people. . 
Do honourable senators think that the Standard New Jersey oil company is operating for the good of the people? Of course it is not.  It  is operating for the good of its shareholders. It was said by  Mr Langston  when he was here that the share holder must be the first consideration of the company manager. So when the Minister quotes an article in the 'Economist' which states that these people are running at a loss I would want this matter delved into a lot deeper before it would be acceptable to me and, I would think, before it would be acceptable to the Senate. In addition to the price that the former Prime Minister was able to negotiate the Government required that certain things be done. Esso-BHP were very pleased at the price they got. They were prepared to take it and said that they were pleased that they would make handsome profits. The Government requires that until September 1980 refineries continue to absorb the maximum possible quantities of indigenous crude oil and in order to achieve this objective it will be necessary for refiners to provide the plant facilities required to process the maximum quantity of indigenous crude. This is a clear statement of Government policy - a guaranteed market for Esso-BHP which, for 10 years, will have access to the Australian market. Yet, at the first opportunity we find that the Mobil company exported a shipload of oil from Barrow Island. No sooner has a quantity of crude oil been built up in Bass Strait than the opportunity is taken to make another large shipment to California. 
This matter requires careful consideration in the light of the fact that we are not. and will not be for many years on present indications, self-sufficient in indigenous crude oil.- If. we do not find a different quality of crude oil Australia will never be self-sufficient. In the . aide memoire that the Prime Minister presented to the Parliament-he said: 
If insufficient suitable feedstocks ' for the manufacture of lubricants and bitumen -can be obtained from Australian produced crude, the refiners should be allowed to import the minimum quantities of suitable quality feedstocks. The intent of such imports is that the volume be limited- so as to contain the least amount of 'by-product', materials to ensure that Australian crudes are. utilised to the maximum extent. 
Even in the face of that statement someone is issuing licences for the export of Austraiian crude oil. This is a disgrace and the Government should be condemned for it. It should be condemned by the people who have to purchase the products at a higher price than they would otherwise have to pay. 
 I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that recently the Western Australian Government made representations to the Commonwealth Government seeking a loan of S5.5m to assist in the construction of a standard gauge railway line from Kalgoorlie to Esperance? Did the Commonwealth Government refuse to make that loan to the State Government? In view of the Commonwealth Government's stated policy of phasing out the gold mining industry and allowing Kalgoorlie to operate in conjunction with the nickel industry, what effect will the nonconstruction of the standard gauge railway to Esperance have on the installation of a nickel refinery in Kalgoorlie? If the standard gauge line is not constructed from Kalgoorlie to Esperance will this mean a further blow to the eastern gold fields of Western Australia? If this is so, will the Government reconsider granting the loan to the Western Australian Government to assist in the construction of the line? 
The honourable senator has asked a wide and comprehensive question. My understanding is that the Commonwealth Government indicated that it was not prepared to participate in the construction of that standard gauge line. I would have to check my information even on that aspect, but I think that is the situation. As to the effect upon the gold and nickel mining industries of Western Australia, I should like to have that aspect examined. I do not suggest that the question be put on notice. I would prefer to have it processed and to reply to it at some later time. I will undertake to do so. 
 I wish to raise a question on part of the motion moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. He moved that order of the day No. 23 be referred to the Privileges Committee together with something that has been referred to the Standing Orders Committee. Can the Senate have some information upon the matter that is to be referred to the Privileges Committee from the Standing Orders Committee? It seems to me that someone is asking for a blank cheque. I do not know what is being referred to the Standing Orders Committee. I do not know whether I agree that a matter from the Standing Orders Committee should be referred to the Privileges Committee. 
Unless I am in possession of fairly full information, I do not propose to agree to a matter being referred to that Committee. I think that, at the very least, the mover of the motion, that is the Leader of the Government in the Senate, should put on record in Hansard what the Privileges Committee will deal with if this motion is passed so that all honourable senators will know what the proposition is. I say quite frankly that we have reached a pretty serious stage here. Matters of privilege are to be discussed. No security is given in this place to any senator who is a member of any committee. Not one bit of security is provided. Out of all of this, we are likely to start some sort of witch-hunt. We are all vulnerable. Therefore, I wish to know what is being referred to the Privileges Committee. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) (9,55) - in reply - These comments will have the effect of closing the debate. I draw the attention of the Senate to the reference of a matter to the Standing Orders Committee which appears in the Journals of the Senate in this form: 
Standing Orders Committee - Reference of Matter: The Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  moved, by leave - That General Business, Notice of Motion No. 9, standing in the name of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  viz.: 
That Standing Order 33a be amended as follows - At end of Standing Order add "; and also to inquire into and report upon matters concerning rights, responsibilities, obligations and protection of Senators and, in relation to proceedings of the Senate, of members of the public, which may  be  referred to it by the Senate". 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Privileges for inquiry and report the following matter - All aspects of the right to publish in whole or in part the content of Papers presented to the Senate and of the proceedings of the Senate or any Committee thereof, or any reports of Committees, with a view to making known responsibilities and protection of persons proposing to publish matter connected with such Papers and proceedings and Reports of the Senate or any Committee thereof. 
For the purposes of this inquiry, the Privileges Committee shall have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place and to meet and transact business notwithstanding any prorogation of the Parliament.', be referred to the Standing Orders Commit  tee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I rise to speak on the third reading of the Bill because of the arrogant and impetuous statements made by the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  in reply to the debate on the second reading. It is well known that in the spring session of 1962 a workers' compensation Bill was brought down to amend the rates of workers' compensation applying throughout the Commonwealth and that the Australian Labor Party, through  Mr Clyde  Cameron, had prepared a whole heap of amendments to the legislation in an endeavour to make it satisfactory to the workers in industry. At that time, at the request of the late  Mr Harold  Holt, the amendments were stood over to be brought in by the Government in the autumn session of 1963. They have now been introduced, S years later. Yet when the Opposition is prepared to co-operate in order to get the legislation passed in the dying hours of this session of Parliament - and bear in mind that the early closing of this session has been criticised severely throughout Australia and even in other parts of the world - the Minister has the effrontery to come into this place and to taunt the Australian Workers Union because it has not moved amendments to the Bill. 
Did I say Australian Workers Union? 1 am sorry. Anyway, that organisation has just as much interest in the Bill as anyone else and it represents many employees in the Commonwealth service. The first statement of the Minister to which I wish to refer appears on page 2130 of yesterday's Hansard. The Minister said: 
We have heard from members of the Opposition a somewhat hollow story. It is' quite remarkable that a piece of legislation such as this which has been introduced by a Liberal-Country Party Government has the full support of the Opposition. 
That sort of statement will not stand up, even in the light of a later assertion by the Minister, which I will quote in a moment. He went on: 
I think it is remarkable that the Government, having introduced a measure of this sort, should be assured by the Opposition that the measure is being supported and that no amendments will be moved. That in itself is as striking a testimony as could be afforded to the intrinsic value and merit of this legislation. 
The fact that the Australian Labor Party put forward six speakers on this Bill, as the Minister acknowledges, to draw attention to its weakness contradicts the Minister's arrogant statement that we are satisfied with this legislation. We are not satisfied with it. I could go through it and point to many provisions where the whole concept of workers compensation legislation is reversed. 
I invite the Minister's attention, for example, to clause 28 which provides that the loss of an artificial part must arise both out of and in the course of the employment. That is a complete reversal. That provision was taken out of workers compensation legislation very many years ago. There has been a lot said about the South Australian workers compensation legislation. The provision to which I have just referred was removed quite recently from the South Australian legislation, and also from the Tasmanian legislation. Generally speaking, such conjunctive terms have not been incorporated in workers compensation legislation throughout the world for many years. Much of this legislation is not satisfactory. At page 2131 the Minister is reported to have said: 
I know that some members of the Opposition -they are in a decided minority- 
We do have regular Caucus meetings at which we discuss the legislation introduced by the Government, but I did not know that the Government had someone at those meetings who could determine whether a minority or a majority was satisfied with the legislation. Perhaps we should have a look around our Caucus room to see whether it is bugged. Perhaps the Central Intelligence Agency has been there and is helping the Minister to get information out of our Party room as to the degree of support for legislation. This is the sort of statement that the Minister makes. He went on: 
I know that some members of the Opposition - they are in a decided minority - have endeavoured to explain away the fact that no amendments will be moved by claiming that in some way the passage of the Bill would be delayed if amendments were moved. AH I can say is that many Bills have been before the Senate during the last fortnight to 3 weeks. Some of them have involved matters of major significance and others have contained matters of not so great significance in which the Opposition has generally concurred. Nevertheless they have moved their amendments and the amendments have been defeated - 
Loud praise, because the amendments were defeated. Some of them might have been constructive, but the Conservative Government did not want to accept them. The Minister continued: although on one or two occasions amendments have been carried. But that is an indication that there was no apprehension about the outcome of the legislation to which those amendments were moved. Nevertheless, this is used by some who do not speak for the majority of the Opposition as one reason why amendments are not being moved on this occasion. 
That is another arrogant statement by the Minister. It was agreed within our Caucus that we would not move amendments to this Bill mainly because of the delay of 8 years in trying to get something in this field out of the Conservative Government - something that would be beneficial to the people and not prehistoric. We wanted to get improvements as soon as possible. It may be that at a later time we will move amendments to this legislation, even if we have to do so by a private member's Bill. It is quite arrogant for the Minister to stand in his place and draw attention to these things in the dying hours of the sessional period when his own leader, the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  asked for and accepted the co-operation of the Opposition in getting measures passed. There is no doubt that we could have kept this parliamentary session going. 1 am quite willing to stay here for another week to examine this legislation minutely. I am not in any hurry to get away but some other people have commitments which they made in anticipation of completion of the Government's legislative programme. To cap the lot - this makes me very angry - the Minister rose yesterday and made a statement which appears at page 2135 of Hansard.  Senator O'Byrne  interjected and said to him: 
We are not opposing this Bill, you know. 
The Minister then said: 
It is interesting to hear  Senator O'Byrne,  4 to J hours after the debate commenced, saying that his Party is not opposing the Bill, when from his side we have heard no fewer than 6 speakers all saying that they are not opposing the Bill but addressing themselves to it. 
Should they not address themselves to the Bill? Should they accept just what comes along? Even though they do not oppose legislation should they not criticise it and try to draw attention to omissions and commissions so that the next time that the Miniser considers workers compensaion matters he will have some guidance from those who represent the workers? Should that not happen? Is that not part of the democratic system of government? Do we want some sort of dictatorial government in this place? Is this what the Minister is angling for? Is he saying that there should be one voice and one voice alone heard in this place? 
I do not know whether it is Fascism. All I am saying is that it is  a  dictatorial system of government. The sooner the Minister realises that the Australian people will not stand for a dictatorial system of government the better off this place will he. The Minister then went on to say: 
T am the only speaker from the Government side - 
I point out that  Senator Rae  had spoken a little earlier -  who has responded.  1  am replying to questions which were asked of me and to which it was expected I would reply.  Senator  O'Byrne's  remark is typical of the humbug - 
These are the Minister's words -  that has characterised much of the goings-on of his Party in the Senate this week. 
The Minister speaks from a privileged position. He attacks the workers' representatives and the workers themselves from a privileged position. I remind him that the workers of this country are the people who keep him in the affluent position he is in today. They are the producers of the wealth of this country today. The Minister and others of his ilk appear in the courts of this land and argue about legal interpretations. There will be many interpretations of this legislation. It is the workers who keep the Minister and others in his profession in employment in this country. It does not become the Minister to come in here and make statements of that sort when the Opposition is trying to co-operate with the Government. 
If the Government wants to do something constructive towards the running of this Parliament it will remove the Minister from any area of influence and contact with the public and put him in a backwater where he cannot insult the people of this country. That is what he did yesterday in making an arrogant reply in this Parliament in the debate on the motion for the second reading of this Bill. The Minister does not have to write down what I say because it will be in Hansard. The Government needs the co-operation of the Opposition in order to carry on the functions of this Parliament. We can strangle it by the use of the Standing Orders. We can stop the Government from performing its duty by using the forms of this place. If the Leader of the Government wants the cooperation of the Opposition in order to carry on the work of this Parliament he had better put a pretty tight rein on those in privileged positions who represent the Government. 
1 had intended to ask for leave to present a paper to the Senate and to make a short statement. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  has beaten me to it by proposing the motion for the adjournment, so I shall present the paper during the debate on the adjournment. I present to Government supporters a get well card on the front of which is depicted a sailing ship which represents the ship of state. Inside the card is a cartoon showing the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  both of whom appear to be fighting fit. The ship of state is floundering but is putting on a brave front. However, we must beware of half truths. The card is presented to members of the Liberal Party with best wishes for a complete recovery and for continued good health to follow. 
The card states:  1 hope you return to the state of health displayed by  Mr Leslie  Bury, ex-Foreign Minister, from the muddle of Gorton to the chaos of McMahon. 
Accompanying that card is an envelope which I have edged in black. 
To be more serious, in this debate I propose to raise the disclosure of information gathered by select committees. In March 1969  Senator Keeffe  attempted to move the adjournment of the Senate for the purpose of discussing a matter of urgency. There was considerable resistance to the moving of the motion. It was claimed by several honourable senators that in debating as a matter of urgency the preservation and protection of the Great Barrier Reef, the honourable senator would be disclosing information thai he had received as a member of the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources. The first reference that I want to make to the debate on whether the matter should proceed appears at volume S.40 of the Senate Hansard at page 299 where the now Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  set out his case in opposition to the debate going on. He said: 
I pui it to the Senate that the function of select committees, in which we are engaged much more now than we have been hitherto, is a very important extension of the work of the Senate. The success of select committees is very much (he province of the whole of the Senate, not of .my one pan of it. I believe that anything which in the end tended to diminish the status of select committees or to denigrate their work would do harm to the institution which we respect and which wc hope will reach a higher status and  a  greater responsibility. 
That was part of what  Senator  Cotton said. At page 301 he said:  1 have expressed  the  view in the Committee und 1 have also expressed it. here- in the Senate, that while it is quite in order for people to say that standing order 308 is wide and that they can make their own conclusions about it and behave in their own fashion according to their own interpretation of it, there is  placed upon the Committee a very heavy responsibility because under that standing order, for the Committee to divulge its evidence and tq speculate upon this matter could bring upon it or its chairman a charge of breach of privilege. 
Those 2 statements are from a respected member of this Senate, who at that time  was the  Chairman  of the off-shore oil committee. The preservation of the Great Barrier Reef came within the terras of reference of that committee by virtue of the fact that the Committee was charged with considering off-shore oil legislation as a whole and other matters (hat were specifically referred to it. 

 Senator Gair spoke iti the debate; his remarks appear at page 307 of volume S.40.  His  were very strong words to come from the leader of a political party in this place and a member of the off-shore oil committee. He said: 
Al the present time my inclination is to tender my resignation from the Committee. I have been a regular attender at the sessions of the Committee and have found them to be most interesting, educational and informative, but for all that I find that a Committee member wants to go off on his own representing himself as the great defender of the Great Barrier Reef and giving the impression chat the other members of the Committee have no concern about its future and would sacrifice it to the oil companies. That is my present inclination. If this is to be the pattern of conduct of members of committees in the future I feel that a committee will be just a waste of time. 
That view was expressed by. a member of the Committee who is not only responsible to that Committee but who also has a responsibility as a leader of a political party. 
The next honourable senator to whom l shall refer also was a member of the Committee. 1 refer to  Senator Young,  who is presently the  Chairman  of the Committee. He said: 
However, we also know that we have responsibilities to that Committee and to this Senate. Therefore it is not for me tonight to comment on evidence that has been given. I could talk very easily about newspaper reports. 1 am referring to the reports about evidence given to the Committee  . . I think this shows conclusively that the Committee has a big job to do and a great responsibility when it comes to its final conclusions. Would it be right for a member of the Committee to show any bias whatsoever tonight about, aspects of the Great Barrier Reef? 1 say it would not be right. Is it right for any member of the Senate at this stage to start farcing issues one way or the other about the Great Barrier Reef? 1 
Say it is not right 
A little later in the debate we had some sound advice from  Senator Greenwood,  who is now the Attorney-General. He was not speaking in the debate at that stage but was speaking to a point of order that  Senator Keeffe  should not be allowed to debate his matter of urgency. He said: 
Therefore it becomes a matter of what is the limit upon the Senators and what constraint should be exercised by the Senate in the light of standing order 308. It would be very difficult for honourable senators to speak on matters in this field without offending the Standing Orders. That is one point. 
A second point is that the Senate ought to recognise the difficulty into which it puts its members. Furthermore, having appointed a select committee, the Senate ought to consider whether in those circumstances the honourable senator should embark upon a discussion when it has already given to the Select Committee the obligation of making a major consideration of these matters. 1 have entered this discussion because I sense that there is here a very real problem. 1 do not know whether this matter is expressly covered by the Standing Orders, but 1 certainly ask for your ruling upon it,  Mr President.  It appears from the Standing Orders that the Committee may report at any stage, or it may report when it has completed its deliberations. If it reports when it has finished its deliberations then, according to standing order 317 the consideration of that report must be by specific motion, of which notice must be given in the usual manner. That would suggest, I submit, that if the report of the Committee were before the Senate it could not be discussed in this way. Therefore 1 ask whether it is proper for the Senate to discuss matters which are within the terms of reference. . . . 
This is important - 
. of the Select Committee, prior to the Select Committee reporting. Obviously there is embarrassment. 1 suggest that it is proper for the Senate to be concerned with the matter I have canvassed, both as to the position of individual senators and the Senate itself. I support the point of order because there is, to my mind, a problem which arises. 1 ask for your ruling.  1 spoke later in the debate. 1 tried to ease the position as much as T could. I did feel some inhibition in speaking on the urgency motion because 1 too was a member of the Senate Select Committee. I said: 
I, like other members of the Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources who have spoken in this debate, do so with a feeling of inhibition as to how far I can go in discussing the matters thai have been raised tonight. However, I relieve my mind quite considerably, and I take little notice of standing order 308, because of advice from the  Clerk  of the Senate as to the disclosure of evidence by the Committee. To free my mind a little in this respect I propose to quote briefly from the advice given by the  Clerk  of the Senate. In talking about freedom to allow the evidence given before committees to be perused . . . 
I thought I was adopting a reasonable attitude in view of the advice that the  Clerk  had given to the Off-shore Petroleum Resources Committee, but apparently that was not acceptable because when  Senator 
Cormack, as he was then, spoke in the debate, he said: 
The problem has not been resolved. 1 say that notwithstanding the advice entitled 'Disclosure of Select Committee Evidence' that the eminent  Clerk  of the Senate, for whom 1 have a great respect, circulated and which I have not seen because it was circulated to the members of the existing Committee, the fact is that I do not believe that a select committee of the Senate can pursue properly the responsibility that the Senate places upon it when the matters which have been given to that committee and are within its terms of reference can bs, at the whim of any senator supported by four other senators standing in their places, subjected to scrutiny in debate in the Senate. The realities of the debate that has taken place in the Senate this afternoon and in the evening are that the forms of the Senate have been distorted for the purpose of partisanship. This is what we have been attempting to make clear. Notwithstanding anything that  Senator Cant  from Western Australia has said to the contrary- he made out as glib a case as he could - the facts are that the forms of the Senate are being distorted for the purpose of partisanship and this detracts from the efficacy of select committees which should be protected from this sort of operation. 
He said further: 
They are in the Opposition, lt seemed to me symbolic of this Old Testament character that the Australian Labor Party so often assumes, filled with prejudice and partisanship, myopic, living in the past, and trundling out the shibboleths that  Senator Cant  has trundled out tonight. 

 Senator Cormack was the first to take a point of order against  Senator Keeffe  moving his urgency motion. He referred not only to standing order 308, which prevents the disclosure of evidence that has been placed before a select committee, but also to standing order 125, which reads: 
No Motion or Amendment shall anticipate an Order of the Day or another Motion of which Notice has been given. 
Standing order 419 states: 
No  Senator shall  digress from the subject matter of any Question under discussion; nor anticipate the discussion on any subject which appears on the Notice Paper. 
When taking the point of order, he went on: 
Obviously that refers to the Senate notice paper. I direct my attention to these two standing orders, which I suggest must be read in conjunction with standing order 64, because the Senate already has this matter under its survey, and surveillance. A Senate select committee has-been charged by the Senate with the examination of this problem. The matter appears on the notice paper. 1 suggest, that under the two standing orders I have referred to  -  I consider they must be read in conjunction with standing order 64 under which  Senator Keeffe  and his supporters have moved this motion - honourable senators opposite are out of order. I suggest that they are canvassing a matter which is before a select committee of the Senate; therefore it should not be debated on the grounds that it is anticipating a matter which at present appears on the notice paper. 
That was the substance of the argument that was used in this place to try to prevent an honourable senator from speaking on a matter of urgency which he considered affected Queensland. These were  the  statements of responsible senators opposite. The very least that can be said for  Senator Keeffe  is that he had the courage to bring into the Senate the subject matter that he wanted to debate if the Senate would allow him to debate it, unlike other people who do not come to the Senate but who make their statements outside this place - statements based on evidence that they have received during the course of a committee inquiry. In my opinion it is a matter of privilege, but f know that I would not be upheld on a matter of privilege. To say the very least, it is a great discourtesy to the Senate for a senator to act in (his way, particularly when that senator is a  chairman  of a select committee and more particularly in view of what that senator had to say when he was attempting to stop the moving of an urgency motion by an honourable senator. I refer to the statement made by you,  Mr President.  It has not been contradicted. As a matter of fact, it has been confirmed. It appeared at page 13 of the 'Australian' of Friday, 16th July 1971. The heading is: 'Can exchanges mind their own business?' The article states: 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack,  chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, went on record on Wednesday night as saying that a government supervisory body for Australian slock exchanges would be 'the worst of all worlds'. 

 Sir Magnus told the Waverton, Sydney, branch of the Liberal Party - 
He was discussing Committee business, not in public but at a meeting of the Liberal Party-  that the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges should set up a national body to regulate slock market activity. 
He stressed that his views were personal and not necessarily those of the committee as  a  whole, lt is to be hoped that they are not. 
That comment is at the end of the statement by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. The honourable senator has been a member of select committees and a  chairman  of select committees. He knew the rules sufficiently well to try to prevent an honourable senator debating an issue in this place, but then he went outside the Senate to canvass a matter about which he could have knowledge only because of evidence received by a select committee. 1 quote now from page 323 of the same Hansard from which 1 quoted a little earlier where  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is reported as having said this: 
I rise to pursue a matter which has interested me since 1 had the honour, by the direction of the Senate^ to join a Senate select committee. That committee did me the personal honour of asking me to accept its chairmanship. Honourable senators will recollect that there was a stage where I fell into some sort of bother with one of my colleagues. A matter arose in a debate and evidence that had been given in a meeting of thai select committee was quoted in the Senate. The argument turned upon whether the evidence quoted was evidence thai  was  in the executive committee if I may use the American expression, or whether it was given in open forum. The reason why I mention this is that this was  the  stimulus that caused me to jump to my feel earlier today to take a point of order in respect of the matter raised for urgent  discussion  by  Senator Keeffe  and which has been canvassed in the Senate for the last 2J hours or 3 hours. 
This reveals that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cor  mack  had been in trouble previously over  making  statements on evidence received during the proceedings of another committee. Maybe it would be unfair to leave the  matter  there because the next day, perhaps it was.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack made a  further  statement which appeared in the West Australian' of Tuesday, 20th July 1971. The heading on that article is:  Sir Magnus:  I have been misunderstood. 
The article states'. 
The  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, said yesterday thai comments he had made on the regulation of the securities industry had been misunderstood. 

 Sir Magnus was referring lo reports of a Sydney speech he made last week, in which he said lh:ii a government body to supervise securities markets would be the 'worst of all worlds.' 

 Senator Magnus said yesterday that he was not suggesting the Federal Government had no role to p':i in regulation of the industry- 
I had in mind a situation where a Commonwealth regulator!' body was superimposed on six  State  stock exchanges, a national stock exchange supervisory body, the various other self-regulatory groups and  six  fully fledged State securities and exchange commissions,' he said. 
My  personal view, nol necessarily shared by other members of my committee, is that the disadvantages inherent in such a  tangle  of regulations would outweight the advantages.   'However  I was not expressing the view that the Commonwealth had no role to play in regulation. Nor was 1 saying that the present Government involvement in these markets should remain as it is.' 

 Sir Magnus said he had reported to the Senate in May that the committee had found major weaknesses in the present regulatory system. 
Moreover, 1 have continually  stressed  that these are national questions', he said. 

 Sir Magnus said that Governments had direct responsibilities for supervising the stock exchanges but in fact relied heavily on self-regulatory bodies. 
I submit to the Senate that the statements made by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack arose out of evidence gathered by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, lt is not sufficient for a senator, having made a statement arising out of evidence received or of which he has knowledge, to then say: "But this is my personal opinion and not the opinion of the Committee'. What would happen if there were 8 members of a committee who each made a statement based on evidence received and then said: 'This is my opinion; it is not necessarily the opinion of the other 7 members of the committee.'? Where ate we heading if the Senate is disregarded and people are allowed to go out and make all sorts of statements without hindrance being placed on them? What will happen to the system of committees? As  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and  Senator Gair  have said here, they will be just a waste of time. The proposition 1 put to" the Senate is that at the very least  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack should clarify the position and if it is thought by the Senate that he has offended the Senate, he should be called upon to apologise to the Senate. 
I regret the circumstances in which I have brought this matter forward.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack was elected only today to the position of  President  of the Senate, lt was not my intention to attack him as  President  of the Senate. 1 have mentioned the dates of the statements made by him. I had made up my mind to bring this matter before the Senate long before  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack was elected  President.  I know thai members of the committee on which I served were not allowed to make any statements. Advice was given to us by the  Clerk  of the Senate and the committee ruled that we would not make statements. We expected that that would be the general rule for other select committees. 
 The committee has not yet made a report. 
1 do not know what this committee did. 
 I have here the statements which were made, if the honourable senator wants to read them. 
You might be that dumb that you are unable to make a statement. I cannot vouch for what you have the capability of doing. I have here statements made by  Senator Georges, Senator Rae  and  Senator Wheeldon.  An article in the 'Australian' comments upon the statement made by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. That certainly was a statement designed to tell the stock exchanges to get their own body working otherwise the Commonwealth would step in and take over the supervisory side. What happened? The next day  Sir Cecil  Looker made a statement that a national body would be formed to control the stock exchanges. They were warned by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack that they should do this otherwise they might find themselves controlled by a Commonwealth committee. This is the effect of statements made outside the Committee before reports are brought down. People who will be affected by reports that are likely to be brought down are warned to put their house in order before the committee presents its report. Not only the  chairman  but also members of the committee are first in this position. If that is the way in which select committees are to carry on we will find that very few honourable senators on this side of the chamber will be willing to serve on select committees. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether he has seen a published report entitled 'Airline Policy and the Public Interest in Western Australia' which has been widely distributed in 
Western Australia and which states a case for the rejection of an application by Trans-Australia Airlines for permission to operate air services within Western Australia and between Perth and Darwin: Has the Minister been advised that the precise nature of the TAA application is not a matter of public knowledge? Will the Minister make the precise nature of the TAA application available to the public in view of the inference that Ansett Transport Industries Ltd has knowledge of it? Will the Minister authorise TAA to prepare and distribute its case for entry into Western Australian air services and the Perth-Darwin route in order that the residents of Western Australia will be fully informed and be able to make a judgment from balanced information? 
Has the Minister for Works seen Press reports of the royal commission of inquiry into the collapse of the West Gate bridge? Was that report critical of the consultants, Maunsell and Partners? Has the Commonwealth presently in engagement Maunsell and Partners as consultants on works proceeding or planned? If so. is the Minister satisfied that they are competent consultants? Has the Commonwealth previously engaged Maunsell and Partners as consultants? If so. does the Commonwealth intend to engage them as such in future in view of this report? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Did each senator and each member of the House of Representatives who first sat in the Parliament at Canberra plant a tree in the vicinity of the present Canadian High Commission; if so, have some of those trees been cut down, on whose instructions were they cut down and for what purpose? 
Are each of the trees presently standing, marked with the name of the senator or member who planted it; if not, will the Minister take steps to preserve those trees and have them so marked? 
Will the Minister have trees planted to replace those cut down and have them marked appropriately. 
1 wonder whether the position is not still as confused as it was before the amendment to the Standing Orders was brought before this chamber to be dealt with. During  Senator Wright's  absence  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson spoke of this matter as the right and privilege of an individual. He called the attention of honourable senators to the right of an individual to rise on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate and speak on any matter on which he wished to speak or any matter that might be disturbing him.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson directed our attention to standing order 190, which allows a senator to discuss matters both relevant and irrelevant on the first reading of a money Bill. 
But then he went on to say that standing order 64 gave an individual the right to raise a matter of urgency. He listed shortly the history of the standing order from the mother of parliaments. He said that in the mother of parliaments originally, when a matter occurred in the constituency of a member or affected the electors that member represented, a matter of urgency could be raised by him as an individual. Our standing order 64 has never said that. It gives no rights at all to the individual. An individual senator who wants to raise a matter of urgency, even under the proposed amendment, must be able to con vince 4 other senators that the matter is of such urgency that it should be brought on. So, it has never been the. individual right of any senator. I think  Senator Wright  set the record straight there. 
The situation is so confused that we have 2 Ministers -  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, the Leader of the Government in the Senate, and  Senator Wright,  who is in charge of this debate tonight - expressing opposite views. I believe that the view put forward by  Senator Wright  is the correct one, namely, that it is not an individual right. It is the right of an individual to bring something forward provided he can get 4 other senators to agree with him that the matter he wants to discuss is of such urgency that it should be brought on impromptu. 
You cannot leave out the word 'if. It has been said that if the amendment proposed by  Senator Murphy  was agreed to by the Senate it would be possible for people to come here and make personal attacks upon other honourable senators or members of the public. Perhaps it is true that urgency motions could be brought on and personal attacks could be made on individuals, whether they be senators or members of the public. I have been in the Senate now for 12 years and I have not seen that practice adopted in this chamber. I have not reached the stage where I think that this Senate would agree that that sort of thing should continue. I think that any honourable senator who attempted to do this sort of thing would bc quickly called to order. I would hope that he would be, in any case. So to put that argument as an objection to the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy  does not cut any ice with me. 
 It has been mentioned that on occasions the Australian Democratic Labor Party has expressed itself as being opposed to the moving of the gag even when only one or two minutes are left to debate the issue. One must ask oneself why the DLP would do this. It has had an about-face, because in recent. times it has supported the moving of the gag. One must ask oneself why. the DLP has had this change of front. Obviously when the DLP was opposing the gag it was opposing it on the basis that the proposal was being put and carried on the substantive motion and it did not want the substantive motion either carried or defeated. It wanted the matter to be talked out. But when it comes to its turn, when it brings something forward on which it wants the approval of the Senate on a substantive motion, as was the case last night, it moves the gag and carries it. I will bet anything you like that the propaganda of the DLP will be saying: 'This is the resolution that was carried by the Senate': 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise: Is it a fact that Mobil Oil Australia Ltd and H. C. Sleigh Ltd have been granted a licence or permit to export Australian produced crude oil? Has XL Petroleum Pty Ltd applied for a licence or permit to export Australian produced crude oil? Has a licence or permit to export crude oil been issued or refused to XL Petroleum Pty Ltd? If XL Petroleum Pty Ltd is refused a licence or permit to export Australian produced crude oil, will it mean that XL Petroleum Pty Ltd will become insolvent or will have to sell its share of Australian produced crude oil to Australian established refining companies at SI. 50 a barrel? Is the refusal to issue a licence or permit to XL Petroleum Pty Ltd to export Australian produced crude oil an attempt by the Government and the oil cartel in collaboration to squeeze XL Petroleum Pty Ltd out of the Australian oil distribution industry? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Northern Territory Development Roads 
Tactical Trainer Building at HMAS Watson, South Head, Sydney, New South Wales. 
Communications Building at Bendigo, Victoria. 
Interim reports on the proposed community college at Darwin and the redevelopment of the Alice Springs hospital were presented to the Parliament during the autumn session. I now present the Committee's final reports on those 2 references. 
At the outset I want to congratulate those honourable senators who have gone
              through the ordeal of making their maiden speeches in this chamber. I want
              particularly to congratulate  Senator Bonner 
              because 1 thought he did not have the airy-fairy ideas of most white people about the
              needs and wants of Aboriginals. He is part of them, has grown up with them and knows
              what they want. Whether he can persuade this Government to do that which the
              Aboriginals desire to have done for their benefit is another matter. The honourable
              senator is a member of a conservative party which has been in government for 22 years
              but has not made any advances towards the enlightenment of the Aboriginal people. I
              want to say to him that I have some very good friends among the Aboriginal people and
              that I know and understand them a little. 
I congratulate  Senator Carrick  on his speech
            tonight which I thought was somewhat of a masterpiece in presentation. My only regret
            about it was that it was not made in 1900 because it contained all the conservative
            shibboleths that one could possibly collect. Every conservative thought that was present
            in the Australian community at the turn of the century was presented to the Senate again
            tonight. I hope that  Senator Carrick  will listen
            with enlightenment to the debates in this place and that he will educate himself to the
            standard of the necessities of 1971. 

 Senator Carrick said that he regretted that there had
            to be confrontation between employers and employees over industrial conditions. He
            belongs to a party that seeks to uphold arbitration and the very basis of arbitration is
            confrontation. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Aci provides that there
            must be disputation between the parties before the court can move. In the context of
            Australia today we find that the trade union movement moves out of the system of
            arbitration and into the system of direct negotiation simply because it does not have
            its reasonable demands satisfied by the arbitration system. Arbitration never was
            welcomed by employers until the post-war period when they learnt to use- it for their
            own benefit. Honourable senators will realise this if they trace through the history of
            industrial relations in Australia. They will find that the employers in industry never
            waited at any time for the evolution of conditions in order to satisfy themselves but
            went to legislation to suppress the workers. The whole history of arbitration proves
            that it has been an instrument to be used by the employers. I am not discounting the
            fact that when the first Conciliation and Arbitration Act was introduced it took away
            some of the oppression of the working classes, as it was designed to do, but very
            quickly it was used to oppress the workers - so much so that the employers sought to
            abolish in 1929 and so much so that the workers of today have abolished it by direct
            negotiation. 
Yet today we find that the Treasurer <inline font-weight="bold">(Mr
              Snedden)</inline> places practically the whole blame for the inflationary spiral that
            exists in Australia today upon the demands by working people. I think it is safe to say
            that if honourable senators read the history of the Industrial Revolution they will find
            that the worker never has been accepted as a member of the community of the world. I
            have books available in my room, if honourable senators want to read them, about the
            coal mines in England 200 years ago and the evolution of the suppression of the working
            classes in the factories. Indeed, if honourable senators like to travel through the back
            blocks of Queensland and New South Wales they will find headstones marked on gum trees
            where workers were shot down by the police while fighting for ordinary decent
            conditions. Arbitration has not done a great deal for working class people other than to
            guarantee a minimum wage. 
It is quite useless for the Treasurer, who comes from a working class family, to
            stand in his place and say that the bulk of the fault for the inflationary spiral in
            Australia today lies with the activities of work ing class people. When an Australian
            Government has to blame the working class people for its economic ills, to denigrate
            their leaders as being un-Australian and say that it is they who seek to destroy this
            country, then it is time that the people of Australia had a look at the Government. 
This Government does nothing more than it is compelled to do to satisfy the
            legitimate demands of working people in this country. Does this Government attempt in
            any way to control the other excesses that exist in our community? How can a government
            get a balanced economy when it will tie only one end of it, and that is the wages end?
            Has there been any attempt to curb monopolies? Has there been any attempt to curb price
            inflation? Has there been any attempt to curb profit inflation? No; because these are
            the instruments of so called free enterprise. These are the instruments that this
            Government is dedicated to protect - the interests of capitalism and the interests of
            monopolism. Only last week the High Court of Australia threw out the Restrictive Trade
            Practices Act and told this Government what it could do if it had the will to do it
            Whether the Government will have the will to do it will be a matter for this Senate to
            examine at a later date. I deplore the fact that all that the Treasurer can think of to
            solve his troubles is to criticise the working class. The working class has given so
            much to this community. It has given much more than the people who sit on the front
            benches in this Government. Very few of those Government members have contributed
            anything to the advancement of Australia. Working class people have contributed greatly
            to Australia's economic life. I shall now deal with some parochial matters. 
I can deal a little more with the honourable senator. He  comes  into this chamber and produces a heap of
                figures to show that the Commonwealth Government has had to increase its charges for
                the post office by as much as 110 per cent. At the same time he warms to Broken Hill
                Pty Co. Ltd because in 10 years it has increased its prices by only about 27 per
                cent. But the honourable senator gave a half completed picture to the people of
              
Australia when he seized the opportunity to make these statements on
            the air. He has failed to make the comparison between the 27 per cent increase in prices
            by BHP and the inflationary spiral which has taken place at the same time. 
1 would think that it is more than 30 per cent. I shall take the honourable
                senator's figure of 30 per cent. But I ask him this question: If BHP makes a
                profit of about $70m this year, what was the ratio of its profit at the beginning of
                the 10-year period when compared with the fact that there has been a 30 per cent
                spiral in inflation and a 27 per cent increase in prices? When people start to
                handle figures they should analyse them right through. 1 did not hear the table of
                prices which the honourable senator presented in relation to Bourke's Melbourne
                Pty Ltd. I do not know what it was but I gather from the way he spoke last night
                that he was setting out to prove that Bourke's store was no cheaper than any
                other store. He selected a given number of items to prove his case. That does not
                prove anything, because one can select anything and make a case out of that. Unless
                one takes the whole range of goods one cannot complete one's case. I know people
                in Western Australia who shop at Tom the Cheap Grocer. They say: 'Well, Tom the
                Cheap Grocer is no cheaper than any of the other grocers such as Charlie Carter Pty
                Ltd. Their goods are the same price'. But. people fail to realise that the
                existence of Tom the Cheap Grocer forces the other commodity sellers to reduce their
                price to his price. He has not gone up to their price. This is probably the case in
                Victoria as far as Bourke's are concerned. I ask the honourable senator to
                remember these things when he starts to compare prices. 
At the present time there is an application before the Commonwealth Government for
            the entry of Trans-Australian Airlines into some of the intrastate routes in Western
            Australia and into the PerthDarwin route, which is an interstate route or » route
            between a State and a Territory. Legitimately it is the right of the Commonwealth
            Government to control this arrangement. I have here a booklet which has been supposedly
            prepared by 
MacRobertson Miller Airline Service to put its case as to why TAA
            should not be allowed Ansett to . operate the AdelaideAustralia. The foreword is rather
            interesting. Before I read it I point out that it is written by R. M. Ansett.
            Incidentally, MMA is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ansett Transport Industries Limited.
               Sir Reginald  Ansett states: 
This submission by Ansett Transport Industries Limited- 
When honourable senators read the rest of the foreword they will
            notice that Ansett Transport Industries Limited is not thereafter mentioned; it is
            MacRobertson Miller Airlines - deals with the application by Trans-Australia Airlines
            for a licence to operate over the MacRobertson Miller Airlines network between Perth and
            Darwin. It claims to present a conclusive case for rejection of the application, based
            primarily on the public interest and the financial stability of the airline industry.
            The case deals exhaustively with the consequences of the intrusion by TAA, and its
            effect on the existing service, li demonstates that intrusion would be financially
            unjustifiable, damaging to the public interest, and industrially disruptive, lt
            discusses various implications and alternatives, and argues for complete rejection of
            the TAA application. 
MacRobertson Miller is no longer a pioneering airline. It is part of
            the Australiawide network of Ansett Transport Industries. The Government constantly
            tells the people of Australia that it believes in a 2- airline policy, lt believed in a
            2-airline policy when it gave Ansett Transport Industries the right to operate in
            competition with TAA between Brisbane and Darwin. This action immediately took from TAA
            £200,000 of profit which it was making on that run. The Government believed in 2-
            airline competition on some of the internal routes in Queensland which were profitable
            to TAA. It allowed Ansett Transport Industries into those areas. The Government believed
            in a 2-airline policy when it allowed entry into the routes in Western Alice Springs and
            Alice Springs-Darwin routes. 
What reason did Ansett give for wanting to enter these routes? When
            TAA pleaded that competition would only reduce the amount of income to the operator at
            that time Ansett's answer was: 'Competition will generate its own traffic'.
            Now that TAA makes an application to enter the Perth-Darwin route, in this document
            Ansett Transport Industries - 1 refuse to say MMA - tells us what this proposed action
            will do to the services in Western Australia. The booklet has a name. It is called:
            'Airline Policy and the Public Interest in Western Australia'. There are some
            interesting figures in this booklet. I do not want to go into them. But I shall give an
            illustration of how this document is prepared in order to convince people that it would
            be bad for TAA to be allowed into this area. I shall read from page 14 of the document.
            I know that the Minister tor Civil Aviation <inline font-weight="bold">(Senator
              Cotton)</inline> has a copy. 1 find that on the Perth-Darwin run over an 18-month
            period ending 29th May 1971 Ansett Transport Industries carried a total of 4,606
            passengers, a weekly average of 57 and an average of 9.5 a flight. On the Perth-Derby
            run the total number of passengers over the 18-month period was 5,346, an average of 68
            a week or an average of 3.5 a flight. 1 do not know whether the legislation covering
            airlines requires them to present statistics to the Department of Civil Aviation, but I
            have a photostat copy of a page out of the statistics of Australian regular air
            transport services for the year ended 30th June 1970, which would include a considerable
            portion of this 18-month period with which the submission of Ansett Transport Industries
            dealt. I find that on the Perth-Darwin run the passenger load factor is 66.5 per cent or
            an average of 9.5 a flight. 
Part of ATI's argument is that it spent $20m equipping the airline with
                jet aircraft. It is using either Friendships or Fellowships. They are the only
                aircraft that it uses on that run. 
Yes, the Fellowship would. 
I do not know what the Friendship holds, but the honourable senator would have
                some idea of what it holds. The weight load factor for the Perth-Darwin run is 72.7
                per cent. I have not selected these figures because they are the worst. If we look
                at the figure that I quoted for the Perth-Derby run, which ATI says has an average
                of 3.5 a flight and which has a passenger load factor of 53.1 per cent- 
I am talking about the Perth-Derby run. It has a weight load factor of 69 per
                cent. Before anyone can take any notice of the presentation of the socalled facts
                and figures in this booklet, there should be a proper examination of them. I say
                only that because I do not want to take too much of the time of the Senate. It is
                interesting to note that, in summing up, the submission of Ansett Transport
                Industries states: taa's current application should also be rejected on the
                grounds that: 
Present and potential airline traffic in Western Australia is entirely
                inadequate to support two airline operators. 
An inevitable result of splitting the market would be an impoverished and
                depleted service of much lower standard' than is now available. 
Losses by both competitors would be unavoidable, thus leading to a return to
                Government subsidies and higher charges for passengers and freight. 
One of the strong arguments used in this document is that the
            operations of Ansett Transport Industries in Western Australia no longer attract a
            subsidy from the Commonwealth Government, except on the station run in the Kimberley
            area, which is regarded as a developmental run. This is true. The simple facts are that
            Ansett Transport Industries moved out of the subsidised runs and continued with the runs
            that were not subsidised, leaving the subsidised or low profit runs to the commuter
            services. It diced them to someone else. The Commonwealth Government still pays
            subsidies to the commuter services. There was a transfer of subsidies from one operator
            to another, not any managerial expertise on the part of Ansett Transport Industries.
            ATI's submission continues: 
The total loss of the air transport industry resulting from competition could be
                in excess of $3m a year. 
The current Airlines Agreement between the Commonwealth, ATI and TAA, does not
                contemplate each airline providing a mirror of the other's service . . . 
I should think that honourable senators would be among the most
            frequent users of Australian airline services. If there is not a mirror service
            operating throughout Australia, I do not know what a mirror service is. The airlines are
            chasing one another through the Australian skies. To protect Ansett Transport
            Industries, TAA must not be allowed to enter the PerthDarwin run, 'the essential
            matter being that there shall be competition only when this is demonstrably efficient
            and economical'. Who decides this? The profits from MM A will be wrapped up in the
            commercial aspects of ATI. Ansett Transport Industries is not bound to disclose its
            profits to the Commonwealth Government unless it is using a Commonwealth guaranteed
            overseas loan for the purchase of equipment. Even then the Government will not demand
            from it an examination of its books. Under the relevant legislation, if ATI has a
            Commonwealth guaranteed loan, it must make its books available. I have yet to know when
            the Commonwealth has asked ATI to make its books available. 
It makes use of the guarantees of this nation to borrow money overseas to buy
                equipment. Part of the agreement is that, if it makes use of the Commonwealth
                Government guarantee, it must make its books available to the Commonwealth
                Government auditors. The submission continues: 
It is clearly not economic to set up a duplicate organisation to handle half the
                traffic when one operator already handles it efficiently and effectively, with
                capacity to spare, and without recourse to public money for subsidies. 
I have spoken already about subsidies. The same position applied on
            the AdelaideDarwin run and on the Brisbane-Darwin run. TAA had the capacity and was
            working with excess capacity. Nevertheless Ansett was allowed to enter these runs. Yet
            ATI has tried to hoodwink the people of Australia. A couple of weeks ago I asked the
            Minister for Civil Aviation whether he would allow TAA to present a similar document to
            the people of Western Australia so that they could have an informed opinion on whether
            TAA should be allowed to enter the run. He did not tell me that he would. He said that
            it was a good suggestion. As far as I know, TAA has not had an opportunity to present
            its case to the Australian people. 
I know that  Sir Frederick  Scherger has
                made a couple of public statements, but Ansett claims that this comprehensive
                document took thousands of hours to present. Why is not TAA given the opportunity to
                do likewise? The agreement expires on 30th September this year. Then the Government
                will have to make up its mind whether it will allow TAA to operate in Western
                Australia. It would certainly not be economic for the Commonwealth to incur
                significant unnecessary expenditure to expand many of the facilities provided by the
                Department of Civil Aviation. I agree that the provision of such facilities is very
                expensive for the Government, but I remind honourable senators that Ansett Transport
                Industries is still operating at some airfields in Western Australia where the
                facilities installed are not correct for the type of aircraft being used by the
                Ansett organisation. 
Exemptions have been issued. If exemptions can be issued for Ansett Transport
            Industries they can also be issued for Trans-Australia Airlines. It is claimed that
            intrusion by TAA would have serious industrial consequences including the displacement
            of 35 Western Australian pilots by pilots who have been recruited largely in the eastern
            States. What a lot of hogwash that is. Both Ansett Transport Industries and TAA will
            take their pilots and other staff from wherever they can get them providing they are
            competent to do the job required of them. It is not a matter of where they are employed
            in Australia. Where did they originate? How long have they been in Western Australia? Is
            it not time that someone examined these matters? They were probably imported into
            Western Australia to work for MacRobertson Miller Airlines before the takeover by Ansett
            Transport Industries. The same process could easily be repeated with TAA. How is this a
            reason for TAA not to be allowed to operate within the State? 
I urge the Minister to look very closely at the application by TAA so that that
            airline is given a fair go. There should not be a repetition of the situation in 1957.
            At that time TAA had completed an agreement with the Hawke Government of Western
            Australia. TAA was waiting only for the signatures to be put  on  the agreement when it was instructed by the late  Senator Paltridge,  who was then Minister for Civil
            Aviation, to break off negotiations. I do not want a repetition of that. If TAA has a
            good case to enter the Western Australian routes it should be judged fairly and
            impartially. 
I hope so. 
To date I have not had reason to question the Minister's word. I will wait
                and hope that I will be able to rely upon it. I sincerely hope that TAA will be
                given an opportunity to expand its routes into Western Australia. In that way there
                will be a real 2-airline policy operating throughout Australia, and part will not be
                reserved for a private monopoly operator. 
Over the past few months there has been a lot of controversy in this fair city of
            Canberra about the tariffs charged at Commonwealth hostels. Honourable senators who have
            been reading the Canberra Press will know that civil servants have threatened not to pay
            tariffs that include what they call exorbitant increases imposed by Commonwealth Hostels
            Ltd. The Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, the organisation that looks
            after clerical officers' industrial conditions in the Public Service. commented in
            the Canberra News' of 24th June. The report states: 
That something, in our opinion, is major deficits on the Hotel Kurrajong and
              Brassey House with their parliamentary clientele.' 
The spokesman said the losses incurred in those hostels were charged against
              Commonwealth Hostels' other Canberra establishments - which meant public servants
              paid more than necessary. 
I will deal with that matter a little later. In the Canberra
            'News' another report referred to statements by <inline font-weight="bold">Mr
              Boyd, chairman</inline> of the Young Country Party in Canberra. The report stated: 
Using the Macquarie Hostel as an example, <inline font-weight="bold">Mr
                Body</inline> claimed staff could easily be reduced. In a letter to the Canberra
              'News'  Mr Boyd  claimed: 
Six of the 10 dining room maids do nothing at lunchtime. 
Kitchen staff could be reduced. 
There was no need for a catering manager. 
Over-staffing of cleaners. who were inefficiently rostered. 

 Mr Boyd also questioned the thinking behind
              allowing hostel staff board at half rates. 
Of course, that is typical Country Party thinking. Its members believe
            that everything is over-staffed and workers do not work hard enough. They fail to
            realise that any reduction in board at the place of employment is taken into account in
            fixing the wages.  Mr Boyd  completely forgot that.
            The Canberra 'News' published an editorial on the matter, which stated in part: 
Commonwealth Hostels, which imposed the new tariffs, are now confronted wilh
              serious charges by the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association to the effect
              that heavy losses on Brassey House and the Hotel Kurrajong are responsible for the
              jump in the tariff there. Politicians stay there - 
Nice people these- and politicians are remarkably, sensitive when it
            comes to revealing what they cost the community 1 am not afraid to tell the people what
            I cost the community. The editorial went on: which might explain why the hostel balance
            sheets are not readily available for public consumption. 
The Hotel Kurrajong over the years has provided some political tidbits about
            members' demands and extravagances. The installation of a special bath for a senior
            Minister comes readily to mind along with the query if this cost was met from the
            general hostel account. 
I do not know how far back into history people will go to denigrate
            members of Parliament. I have been a senator for 12 years and the special bath referred
            to was installed long before I came to this Parliament. It was installed for the leader
            of  Mr Boyd's  Party, now  Sir John  McEwen. It was put in many years ago. 
1 would think so. When I first read the editorial I thought the bath had been
                put in for  Sir Walter  Cooper because of his
                disability, but I found out that it was not. I am not so concerned about that. These
                people will dig back into history as far as they can go in order to denigrate
                members of this Parliament. I have just about run out of time but I wish to
                illustrate the increases that have taken place at the Hotel Kurrajong. Members of
                Parliament requiring bed and breakfast there pay an increase of 30.7 per cent, while
                their daily and weekly rates have been increased by 24.4 per cent. Shared
                accommodation, for bed and breakfast, has been increased by 38 per cent: on a daily
                and weekly basis the increase is 

 Budget 1971-72 28.4 per cent. The weekly rate for
            shared accommodation for members of Parliament is $48.50, while single accommodation is
            $54.75. The charge for single accommodation for a public servant has been increased by
            15 per cent to $29.40, while shared accommodation has been increased by 12 per cent to
            $26.90. 1 know that there are public servants who stay at the Hotel Kurrajong and who
            receive very much more in salary than I do. But these rats will continue to attack
            members of Parliament. I say quite confidently that they are rats. 
I want to go a little further because members of Parliament have not had an increase
            in salary since 1968 but these poor people who have had these charges imposed upon them
            have received increases since 1970 - the time of the previous increase in tariffs at the
            Hotel Kurrajong. Officers in the Third Division have received an increase in salary, on
            the average, of 16 per cent. The figures are as follows: For class 1, 16 per cent; for
            class 2, 16.3 per cent; for class 4, 16 per cent; and for class 10, 19.1 per cent. Yet
            these people talk about the inflationary spiral. 1 will be asking more questions about
            this matter during the consideration of the Estimates. My time has expired now. I would
            have liked to have had much more to say about it. 1 want to tell the people that members
            of Parliament who stay at the Hotel Kurrajong and those who stay at Brassey House do not
            receive any privileges. I have been staying at the Hotel Kurrajong for 12 years and I
            have never received one privilege. I am not complaining about the accommodation that 1
            have there. But I object when people say that the losses incurred by Commonwealth
            hostels are caused by members of Parliament staying in these hostels when they are not
            so caused and when the rates for public servants are very much lower than those for
            members of Parliament. It will not be long before there are not any members of
            Parliament staying at the Hotel Kurrajong. Then let us see how profitable it is at
            $29.40 a week. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poke)  -
            Before calling  Senator Durack  I wish to point out
            that this will be his first speech in this chamber. 1 sincerely trust that all
            honourable senators will accord him the courtesy that has been 

 Budget 1971-72 571 extended to the other honourable
            senators we have heard making their maiden speeches tonight. I call  Senator Durack. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the known Joss of business by Qantas Airways Ltd to charter operators and the announced decision by Qantas and the Minister to form a charter organisation to regain this important trade, will the Minister advise what progress has been made and on what date the charter company is expected to commence operations? Further, in view of this planned progress will the Minister advise on the possibility of having the notice of dismissal to young pilots which  is due to become effective shortly, lifted? Many of these young people left early careers, university courses and so on to become Qantas cadets and they now face almost certain inability to obtain employment in Australia or elsewhere. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior in his capacity as the Designated Authority for the adjacent area of the Northern Territory. Was a strike of petroleum made in the adjacent area of  the Northern Territory at Petrel No. 1 on 6th August 1969? Is Petrel No. 1 regarded as a commercial strike and has it been declared a commercial find? Does the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967 provide that an operator, having made a find of commercial petroleum, has to declare the location within 2 years? Has a location been declared? Docs the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967 provide that the Designated Authority may extend the period for declaration of a location by a further 2 years? Has an extension been granted? If a location has not been applied for, is the area open for other persons to make application for a location? 
 Mr Temporary Chairman,  I wish to move an amendment to the words proposed to be inserted. I move: 
That the words proposed to be inserted read as follows: the mover and the  Senator next  speaking shall not exceed 30 minutes each'. 
I believe that honourable senators require a reasonable amount of time in which to present a case on a matter of urgency. I believe that one needs a reasonable amount of time in which to develop one's argument on a subject of national importance. Of course, if the matter raised has been brought up for political reasons- 
 I hope I will be forgiven if I mention amendment (4) in order to make an explanation of what I think should be done. 
 Mr Chairman,  if you limit it to that 1 can only speak about the proposal to reduce the time to 20 minutes. I should be able to discuss these 2 amendments even if we do not vote on the 2 because each one affects the other. 
Yes, I will if I may. 
Very well,  Mr Chairman.  The proposal before the Senate is to reduce the speaking time of the first 2 speakers - I am not now talking about the Minister who replies but the first 2 speakers - from 30 minutes to 20 minutes. The reason why I wanted to discuss amendment (4) is that it then reduces the speaking time of the following speakers to 10 minutes. If there are people here who do not want to have an intelligent debate, I will not pursue my request. If a matter is of sufficient urgency to be brought into this place, and if other amendments to the Standing Orders are agreed to which seek to have matters wsich are matters of urgency brought before the Chair, then I do not believe that the person who is proposing the case and who moves the motion of urgency can adequately present his case in 20 minutes. 
Urgency motions are usually sprung on the Government. Generally, but not always, urgency motions come from this side of the chamber and the onus is thrown on the Government to defend itself without any preparation on the subject that is presented to the Senate. In this situation I would think it would be difficult for a Minister to present an answer to a prepared case, particularly if the urgency motion relates to a portfolio that the Minister only represents in this place. It has to be remembered that the person who moves the urgency motion will have a prepared case. If the terms of the urgency motion represent an attack on a particular portfolio, the Minister concerned will not have a prepared case and he would require the extra time in order to present a case on behalf of the Government. In my opinion, the time should not be reduced from 30 minutes to 20 minutes. I think it is sensible to give the person who is moving the urgency motion an opportunity to present his case and to give an opportunity to the person in reply to present a case in an emergency. It is not something that has been prepared; it is something that has to be done in an emergency. The person who has to reply could be caught left footed. He will require time to develop a case. I do not think he could do this under 20 minutes. 
I address a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Has the  disagreement which has existed between Australia and the United States of America relative to the landing rights of Qantas Airways Ltd in the United States of America been settled? If so, will the Minister table in the Senate the documents and papers relative to the settlement of that disagreement? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Have Mobil Oil Australia Ltd and H. C. Sleigh Ltd been granted licences or permits to export Australian produced crude oil. . 
Has XL Petroleum Pty Ltd made an appli cation for a licence or permit to export Australian produced crude oil; if so, has a licence or permit been issued. 
If XL Petroleum Ply Ltd is refused a licence or permit to export Australian produced crude oil, will the company, as a consequence, either become insolvent or have to sell its share of Australian produced crude oil to other Australian refining companies at $1.50 per barrel. 
rs the refusal to issue an export licence or permit to XL Petroleum Pty Ltd an attempt by the Government and the oil cartel, in collaboration, to squeeze the company out of the Australian oil distribution industry. 
Until I heard the amazing speech, very well put together and very well delivered, by  Senator Carrick  it was not my intention to enter this debate.  His  speech induced me to say a few words about national service. Before I deal with his speech I remind the Senate that for some years there has been developing an attitude of wanting to divide countries. Some glaring examples of the way in which countries have been divided is the way in which the United States of America divided Korea. There was no North Korea and South Korea until such time as the Americans became involved in Korea. 
The United States went there, through the United Nations of course, and created 2 countries. Its presence there gave it a foothold in the northern part of Asia. Then the United States decided not to adhere to the Geneva Accords. 
The honourable senator should not butt in. He should listen to what is being said. 
I did not make that statement. The honourable senator should listen to what is being said. The next divisive move made by the Americans was not to accept the Geneva Accords and to divide Vietnam. It did not accept the Accords. 
Maybe the reasons were good. The result was that it created 2 countries where previously there existed only one. Another classic example is Cuba. America still retains a military base on the island of Cuba. Another example is what is happening in Northern Ireland now. All the disturbances being caused in Ireland are being caused because Britain wants a foothold in Ireland. There are not 2 Irelands. There are not Northern Ireland and Eire. There is only Ireland. Yet that country is divided. The great powers are setting out to divide the people of the world. 
Everyone talks nonsense, except  Senator Wright  when he got £6,000 collected by the 'Sydney Morning Herald' to defend the Hurseys. Where did that money go? That is nonsense, I suppose. We have heard how various countries are assisted. Until 1938 I was mining antimony which was shipped to Germany to build armaments for war.  Senator Carrick  had the effrontery to denigrate Jack Curtin. Yet it was the Menzies Government that was shipping antimony to Germany. It was the Menzies Government that shipped pig iron to Japan to be thrown back at us. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  does not like that. It was Menzies who went to Germany in 1938, who had dinner with Hitler and who on his return said: 'Hitler has some good ideas. We should follow them'. Would honourable senators opposite deny that Menzies said that? Menzies said: 'Hitler has some good ideas. We should follow them'. Honourable senators opposite should remember that. That is the kind of government that honourable senators opposite give us.  Senator Carrick  said that if a law is bad the law should be changed by the government or the government should be changed by the people. He talked about democracy and about the people being able to change the government of this country. 
Let us see how the Government has prostituted democracy in this country. In the 1966 elections the Australian Labor Party got 42 per cent of the vote and won 43 seats. The Liberal Party got 38 per cent of the vote and won 62 seats. The CountryParty got 10 per cent of the vote and won 20 seats. The DLP got 10 per cent of the vote but did not win a seat. Do honourable senators opposite call that a democracy? 
The one which had the gerrymander, the one which had rigged the electorate to suit its convenience and the one which gave votes to rabbits and trees - 10 per cent of the vote for 20 seats. 
I did not introduce this subject. 
When we hear people such as  Senator Carrick,  who led for the Government, speaking it is quite easy to believe that McCarthy is not dead. I want to quote a few things that  Senator Carrick  had to say when addressing himself to the Bill. He made one profound statement. He repeated it. He said: 
No person has the right at all to seek of his neighbour a greater public burden than he will bear himself. 
Does that statement stand up in the light of the fact that the Government is prepared to conscript only 20-year-olds? Are honourable senators opposite, who are over 20 years of age, prepared to ask 20-year- olds to bear a burden that they themselves do not have to bear?  Senator Carrick  lauded the National Service Act. He is asking 20-year-olds to bear a burden that he does not bear. 
Maybe that is why he is so much in favour of conscription. He said: 
Many of us who were in the militia when World War II broke out and who were forced to go with the tide to war. . . . perhaps he supports conscription because he was forced to go. 
There it is. It is in Hansard. 
He said he was 'forced to go to the tide of war'. Perhaps that is why he supports conscription. He also said: 
Nevertheless a country and a government - Labor or Liberal - has as its first responsibility the organisation of a defence system, ft knows that its policy is unpopular. 
The sort of conscription issue that we delve into with the National Service Aci is a pretty cunning one because we do not offend very many people, even if our policies are unpopular. Out of approximately 120,000 20-year-olds each year we conscript 8,000. Even if the policy of conscription is unpopular it affects only 8,000 families at the most and the other 112,000 are not affected. This is the sort of policy that Menzies brought in, knowing that it would be unpopular, knowing that the Australian people would not accept conscription for overseas service. Knowing full well he introduced a discriminatory form of conscription which allowed the remainder of Australia to carry on with business as usual. Are the 20-year-olds making millions out of the rackets on the stock exchange in this country at the present time, rackets that this Government takes no action to contain? It takes no action to stop these people from ruining the Australian market in the eyes of the world. Do 20-year-olds take any part in this? Of course not. This Government believes in conscription of only one section of the community. It talks about conscription that was introduced by the Australian Labor Party during the Second World War. That was not conscription as we have conscription in this country today. It was limited conscription for a limited area. It was solely for the protection of Australia in the western Pacific and south of the equator. But this Government has not introduced that sort of conscription at all. One of the main points, I think the strongest point, made by  Senator Carrick  was stated in these terms: 
I state here and now that no person has gone to Vietnam as a national serviceman except by his clear elective choice. 
They are strong words.  Senator Carrick  continued: 
Here is the form for anybody to see. The conditions are quite clear. I ask simply this: ls it not a fact that under the legislation, as clearly shown on the application form, a person at the point of registration can opt not to go into the ballot and to adopt the alternative of joining the Citizen Military Forces? I ask now whether this is true.  1 asked  Senator Carrick  at the time to state the conditions of the option but he conveniently refused to do so. I want to deal with a little of the history of this matter. In 1964 the Government proposed an amendment to the Defence Act. The then Minister,  Senator Paltridge,  in his second reading speech introduced the word conscription'. I went to my Party leaders and asked them why the word 'conscription' was in the second reading speech when it did not appear in the Bill.  Senator Kennelly  and  Senator McKenna  had a conference with  Senator Spooner  and  Senator Paltridge.  They were assured that the Government had no intention of introducing conscription. 1 was not satisfied with that and I asked the leaders of my Party to get a military adviser over to have a talk to them. Three military advisers came over and advised  Senator McKenna  and  Senator Kennelly  that there was no intention on the part of the Government to introduce conscription. 
Within weeks of that confirmation by the 2 leaders of my Party, the Leader and the  Deputy  Leader of the Government and their military advisers, the National Service Act was introduced to provide for conscription for national service. This was done under the leadership of  Sir Robert  Menzies. But when it came to the crunch and it appeared that national servicemen might have to be used overseas, did Menzies send them overseas? Of course not. He resigned and left the dirty work to Harold Holt. In 1966 national servicemen were sent overseas. What are the conditions of the option about which  Senator Carrick  was so vehement that applied to these young servicemen? We endeavoured to obtain the conditions of the Citizen Military Forces to put before the Parliament. The 2 pamphlets that I have before me were sent over with a little note attached to them. The note reads: 
Captain Smales of the CMF in the A.C.T. said that these items contain the 'conditions of service' of CMF recruits. 
What are they? One of the pamphlets deals with rates of pay and the other one deals with conditions of service, the benefits a serviceman receives. The pamphlet deals wilh these benefits under the following headings: Pay, taxation and allowances; fares; marriage allowance; uniforms; training; enlistment. These are the items that Captain Smales said contained the conditions of service in the CMF. The Defence Act sets out the option about which  Senator Carrick  is so proud. Section 50a states:  (1.) In time of war or in time of defence emergency, the Governor-General may, by proclamation, call out the Citizen Forces, or any part of those forces, for continuous full time service. (2.) The proclamation shall state the reason for the making of the proclamation. 
There are 2 other sub-sections. They deal with the fact that Parliament shall be notified about the Citizen Military Forces being called out in time of a declared war or state of national emergency. Section 50c. of the Defence Act states: 
Members of the Military Forces may be required to serve either within or beyond the territorial limits of Australia. 
What does this mean? In relation to the option that is available to the people to elect not to go to Vietnam,  Senator Carrick  stated: 
I state here and now that no person has gone to Vietnam as a national serviceman except by his clear elective choice. 
The elective choice is to serve 6 years in the CMF and be a volunteer for overseas service if there is a war or a national emergency. 
Of course it is a conscription force, but they do volunteer. When the Defence Act was amended every member of the Military Forces had to resign. The name was later changed to the Citizen Military Forces. They had to resign and re-enlist under the new conditions which required that they would be available for service anywhere in the world in the case of a national emergency declared by the Governor-General. This is the option that  Senator Carrick  is so pleased to talk about. It is an option of 6 years service without hard labour, I suppose one could .say, as opposed to 2 years service with hard labour, but the 6 years service may involve 6 years of hard labour in the case of a national emergency. What sort of an option is that for people? What sort of an option is it when the Government could have declared Vietnam a national emergency at any time? It did not have the guts to declare a war. It did not say that we were at war with North Vietnam. It had arrows pointing dowm from China and said that C;ina was the big boy. It won many elections on that. But members of the Government parties never had the intestinal fortitude to declare the Vietnam conflict a war so that Australia would be placed in a defence emergency situation and the position would not be war for the 20-year-olds and business as usual for the capitalists. That is the policy that is subscribed to by honourable senators opposite. I say again to  Senator Carrick  that when one hears speeches of this nature it is quite easy to believe that McCarthy is not dead. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Three Year Improvement and Maintenance Programme - Stuart and Barkly Highways, Northern Territory. 
I rise to attract the attention of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to a matter that is in dispute in Western Australia, because I think it is of some national and perhaps international importance. I refer to a case in which a skin diver had information laid against him by the police for diving on a wreck off the Western Australian coast.  Mr Walsh,  a solicitor, defended the man who was named Robinson. A Press report of the case states: 
A solicitor submitted yesterday that the magistrate had no jurisdiction to commit Ellis Alfred (Alan) Robinson for trial on a charge of unlawfully using gelignite to cause an explosion likely to damage property at Tryal Rocks, near the Monte Bello Islands. 

 Mr T. A. Walsh said in the Perth Court of Petty Sessions that the offence, if any had been committed, occurred outsidethe territorial limits of Western Australia. 

 Mr Walsh claimed that a person was not criminally responsiblefor an offence relating to property when he was exercising an honest claim of right. 
It appeared to be  a  fact that the Tyral wreck was situated 12 miles off Norlh-West Island in the Monte Bello group, he said. The seas in the vicinity of the Tryal were not in Western Australia and did not form part of the State. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether sales tax ls payable on seat belts to be installed in motor vehicles. If so, will the Treasurer give favourable consideration to its abolition in view of the fact that the wearing of seat belts is now compulsory in many States? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Was an oil strike made in the Northern Territory in the area adjacent to Petrel No. 1 on 6th August 1969. 
Is Petrel No. 1 regarded as a commercial strike, and has it been declared a commercial find. 
Does the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-1968 provide that an operator, having made a find of commercial oil, is required to declare a location within 2 years of the find; if so, has a location yet been declaredin respect of the Petrel No. 1 find. 
Does the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-1968 provide that the Designated Authority may extend the period for declaration of a location by a further 2 years; if so, has such an extension been granted in respect of the Petrel No. 1 find. 
Is the area referred to open for other persons to make application for a location, if a location has not yet been applied for. 
The Australian Labor Party will not oppose the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Bill because it seeks to extend the payment of the phosphate bounty for a further 3 years. The bounty has proven to be of very great benefit to rural producers. It is at times such as these that they need as much assistance as the nation can economically afford to give them. I am not dealing with the special fertilisers bow when I say that to continue the payment of the $12 a ton on standard superphosphate,  keeping  the cost of a ton  of  phosphate at $15.25, will benefit rural produrers.  This  price has remained reasonably stable since the introduction of the scheme in 1963. 
We would not oppose a measure of this nature. It is interesting to note that since the subsidy was introduced the taxpayers of Australia, through it alone, have paid $235m to the rural industries. This is a fairly large sum to be paid for one subsidy over an 8-year period. The fact that the taxpayers of Australia are prepared to pay this subsidy is an indication of the gratitude that the community feels towards the rural industries which have been the mainstay of the economic situation in Australia over a great number of years. This is another reason why we would not oppose the Bill. 
Despite the fact that over the years the workers of Australia have grizzled about the cockies, they have appreciated the standard of living that the exports of the rural industries have been able to provide for the Australian community. It is for this reason that there has been no complaint about the payment of this subsidy. Nevertheless, we ask the Government to take reasonable care, in paying the subsidy, to ensure that we do not start subsidising over-capacity. One realises that there is somewhat of a slump in the rural industries arid that, although rural producers might like to have more phosphate on their land to enable them to grow more corn or oil seed or to improve their pastures, they are just not in a position to purchase great quantities of phosphate, as a result of which there is a decrease in the turnover of phosphate for the rural industries. The effect of this is the commencement of an excess capacity for the production of phosphate in Australia. 
Only recently 2 phosphate works in Western Australia closed down because they were not receiving sufficient orders to enable them to carry on business. One country phosphate works at Geraldton has reduced production by 40 per cent. This is an indication of what is happening throughout the phosphate industry. Consequently, we ask the Government to give serious consideration to ensuring that the subsidy is not directed towards creating a greater capacity than is required. Care will have to be taken also to ensure that a monopoly position is not created within the industry. We all know of the mergers and takeovers that are occurring in Australia, not only in this industry but also in many other industries. So care should be taken to ensure that during this period in which there is a downturn in the requirement for phosphate we do not bring about a situation in which monopolies can be created. One of the worst things that could happen to the rural industries would be to take competition out of this area of service to the rural industries. We are aware that because subsidised industries have guaranteed incomes they are attractive to overseas investors. We should be trying to ensure that as much as possible of the phosphate industry remains in the hands of Australians. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
The purpose of the Railway Agreement (Western Australia) Bill is to extend the time for the construction of the standard gauge railway between Kalgoorlie and Kwinana. The building of this line is not all done under the Railway Standardization Agreement Act. About half  the  work is carried out under  the  Railway Standardization Agreement Act and about half is declared to  be  development works. This throws quite a different light on  the  subject. The Bill also makes  the  maximum amount payable for these works $125m. The original estimate for the works was £41. 2m. Of course this amount was split up and the consequence was that while the Commonwealth advanced the money to the State for the State's shares of its part of the work the money had to be repaid in various ways. Part of it was repayable over 20 years and part was repayable over 50 years. Both amounts attracted an interest rate which was the long term bond rate. At that time it was 5 per cent. 
One could open up the whole matter of Commonwealth-State financial relations here because this exposes the sort of gimmick which the Commonwealth Government has been putting over the States in relation to financial assistance for a great many years. Money which the Commonwealth collects through taxation from earnings within the States goes into consolidated revenue and is then lent back to the States at an interest rate. When the original Bill was before the Senate I took the trouble to look at the matter. Using the long term bond rate of 5 per cent I found that the works were to cost the Commonwealth and the State £41.2m. Under the Railway Standardization Agreement Act the Commonwealth Government was responsible for 70 per cent of the cost of standardisation and the State was responsible for only 30 per cent. The overall figure for the cost of the works was £4 1.2m but the State would pay £3 8m to the Commonwealth despite the fact that the Commonwealth was responsible for 70 per cent of the cost of the work which was regarded as being done under the Railway Standardization Agreement Act. This sort of financing is not peculiar to this particular railway work. If honourable senators look at what has gone on in the States at various times they will see that generally Commonwealth assistance today is on a dollar for dollar basis. In this way the budgets of the States are tied up. Certain moneys have to be paid into certain projects. There is no elasticity within the State budgets. Then we find that the States have to pay interest on the amount which the Commonwealth puts in unless it is a straight out grant. The States finish up paying for practically the whole of the work. This is the situation we find in relation to this work at this time. While the Opposition does not oppose the Bill we do invite the attention of the Government to the situation which it creates within the States by this method of financing. Remembering that the long term bond rate has now increased to about 7 per cent, this is the rate which the States will have to pay if they enter into these sort of financial arrangements. 
I know that Western Australia was very pleased to be connected by rail to eastern Australia. It improves communications between the States. It brings us all closer together. It makes this country much more one country than what it would be if it were divided by lack of communications. Communications solve most of the problems of the people. But this is a pretty high price to pay when one considers that the railway gauge between Sydney and Melbourne was standardised under the Railway Standardization Agreement Act. Two States are included in that agreement and they each paid 15 per cent of the cost of standardisation. We find that the work in Western Australia is much more expensive. Western Australia has a smaller population. Because of distance it is inhibited by having to pay this great amount. We do not oppose the Bill. 
1 oppose both the motions moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  I draw particular attention to the attempt to extend the hours of sitting of this place. I will not go through the details of that, because 1 do not want to take up more time than is necessary. The Senate will remember that earlier this year the Government took a battering through the media of public information over the way it handled the business of the House of Representatives. Out of that arose a statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  that he would set up a committee to sec that the business of the Parliament was presented to it in an orderly manner. I want to say something about the Prime Minister with respect to this. Although he saw that he had made a mistake by applying the guillotine to the sittings of the House of Representatives and although the media of public information were pointing out to him the mistake that he was making, he was not a big enough man to admit that he had made a mistake and extend the sittings of the House of Representatives. But he promised to have this committee established for the orderly arrangement of the business of the Parliament. 
We have been here since 17th August and, by and large, we have done practically nothing. 1, for my part, am a member of an Estimates Committee that is considering the expenditure of the departments that  Senator Cotton  represents in this place. The Committee has sat for 2 halfdays.  Senator Cotton  has under his jurisdiction in this place one-third of the portfolios of the Government. Yet we are not given the opportunity to examine the estimates relating to those portfolios in a proper way. Because the Government has failed to introduce a proper order of business and because the Prime Minister has not been able to implement the promise that he made to the Parliament and the nation, we now find ourselves in the position that, with approximately another 4 weeks of sitting to go, the Leader of the Government wants to extend the sitting hours. I admit, quite frankly, that the extension of hours for which he asks is not onerous in itself. But it is onerous to those honourable senators who are members of committees. There is a limit to what one can do in this place. When honourable senators are kept pretty busy working on committees, what chance have they, if extended sitting hours are introduced, to work on legislation? Any extension of the sitting hours of the Senate represents a depletion of the efficiency of honourable senators. I say that with some emphasis. That is all I want to say about the hours of sitting. 
I now wish to say a few words about the Thursday night sittings. I listened very closely to what  Senator Byrne  had to say. He talked about the opportunity to use the adjournment debate. But, if honourable senators look at the matters under the heading of General Business, they will see that they are matters which require determination by Senate. Votes have to be taken on whether the matters should be agreed to or defeated. This cannot be done in an adjournment debate. I do not believe (hat the adjournment debate in the Senate should be used for that purpose. I believe that the adjournment debate should be used when an honourable senator has a matter of urgency which he is not able to raise or bring to the notice of the Government at some other time. The adjournment debate is not a time for a general debate. If it is, the Leader of the Government is asking us today for an unlimited extension of hours without it being in any way effective. 
The Government has no right to expect the Senate to give up the right to debate General Business on Thursday nights. This is a time which is valued by all honourable senators who have interests other than what the Government wants to put on the notice paper. It is an opportunity for honourable senators to bring before the Senate matters on particular interest to their constituents, their States and the nation. The opportunity to bring such matters forward is provided on Thursday nights. How many Thursday nights have we had this session on which General Business has been discussed? The debate on  Senator Murphy's  Death Penalty Abolition Bill 1971 was not completed. I am not blaming the Government in this respect. I think this was caused by the attitude of one honourable senator who was able to convince a majority to vote with him. I commend him on being able to do that. I do not think that was caused by the attitude of the Government. 
Then 2 nights set aside for General Business, which should have provided an opportunity for honourable senators to raise private business, were taken up with a debate on the Standing Orders. To use the General Business night for a debate on the Standing Orders was a deprivation of the rights of private senators and, in my opinion, it was quite wrong. A discussion of the Standing Orders is a matter for the Senate and not one for General Business nights. Private honourable senators are deprived of the Opportunity to debate matters of general concern. 
Many things might be done by agreement with the Leader of the Opposition. Generally, when our Leader comes to an agreement with the Leader of the Government he has the backing of those behind him. Nevertheless, it was an imposition upon the general rights of honourable senators for the Leader of the Government or the Leader of the Opposition to advance a proposal that we should give away our General Business night in order to discuss the Standing Orders. Tn the time that we have been here this session, what opportunity have we had to discuss matters of general interest to senators and matters that are on the notice paper under General Business? For the reasons I have stated, I oppose the 2 motions moved by the Leader of the Government. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson.  That amendment reads: 
At end of motion add:  but the Senate is of the opinion that: 
the one-year emergency grant moneys available under the Bill should be directed only to those bona fide wool producers, big or small, who are genuinely in need of emergency finance. 
the emergency finance should be complimented by legislation to: 
establish a single statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip, and 
implement a progressive reconstruction and rehabilitation programme to apply to those areas of wool production and marketing which are in urgent need of improvement and assistance. 
We are dealing at this stage with what in the past has been one of the most important industries in Australia. To those who have had anything to do with rural industries, it is pretty devastating to go through the areas in which those industries are carried on these days, to see the conditions under which producers are attempting to operate and to look at what is occurring not only on the farms but also in the towns amongst the business people and the rural work force. 
This is not the first measure that the Government has brought down in an effort to deal with the problems of this industry. The first such Bill that comes to mind is the Bill introduced approximately 12 months ago to authorise the setting up of the Australian Wool Commission. That Bill had for its purpose a minimum price scheme and a stability of prices. I say at once that the Australian Wool Commission has been a complete and utter failure in attempting to achieve the objectives for which it was created. The first point that I make is that over the period during which it has been producing wool Australia has never had a stockpile of wool here until the Australian Wool Commission was instituted. Now millions of bales of wool are in stockpile. The Australian taxpayer has paid for that wool. 
I ask the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who represents here the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair):  What will be the effect upon the price of wool when the Australian Wool Commission is forced into the position of having to place its surplus wool on the market in competition with the current wool clip? What will be the position then? How will the growers get on then, when now they are able to receive the benefit of a subsidised price without the competition of what must be termed inferior type wools? The wools that are being bought and stockpiled by the Commission are wools that do not reach the reserve or at least are wools that are not wanted by the industry at the time when they are offered at auction. What will be the effect when these millions of bales are fed onto the market? The effect will not be the same as it was in 1946 when the accumulation of the Joint Organisation scheme was being disposed of. The future prospects look dim and we must anticipate that support for the wool industry from the Australian taxpayer's purse will need to be greater. I am not complaining at this stage about the support that is given to the wool industry but later on I will complain about the type of support that is being given to the industry. I repeat that, even though the Minister does not agree with me. in my opinion the Australian Wool Commission has been a complete and utter failure. 
The second major proposition that came before this Parliament was a Bill for the reconstruction of the wool industry. This, too. has been a complete and utter failure. In less than 12 months it has failed. Every State is asking for more money under the scheme. It will be remembered that $100m was put aside for this reconstruction scheme. 1 know that during the Senate election campaign last year it was bandied around that the Commonwealth Government was providing $100,n for the reconstruction of the wool industry. But non-one on the Government side said that this $ 100rn was spread over 4 years. In fact, in Western Australia, where most of this propaganda was put forward, the assistance over 4 years amounts to $15m. Yet the  story  coming out all the lime in support of Government candidates during the Senate election pointed out how generous the Government was in giving $10Om 
I say, frankly, that the people who were putting the story out were the greatest con men in Australia. 
It is not wrong. The Government conned the people into believing that $10Om would be provided. But it did not tell the people that that $100rr was being provided over 4 years. This scheme was rushed through just before the Senate election in the same way as the Bill establishing the Australian Wool Commission was rushed through earlier last year. The first sale following this action was held in Brisbane on the Monday before the Senate election. The price of wool increased by between 15 per cent and 20 per cent at that sale. A sale was held during that week in Sydney. The price of wool increased by between 10 per cent and 15 per cent there. That has never happened since. This was a gimmick by the brokers because they knew where their friends were. When you look at the Bill before the Senate, today who are seen to be their friends? Who is to benefit most from this unlimited amount of money? The Senate is being asked today to pass an open-ended contract. The Bill will be passed because the Government has the numbers on its side. It is like the Bill relating to the Austraiian Wool Commission, which was another open-handed contract; no-one knows what the Commission will cost. If wool prices continue to fall as they have done, despite the efforts of the Australian Wool Commission the amount required for this subsidy could be substantially in excess of $10Om. Only $60m was put aside in this year's Budget for this subsidy and that completely ignores the fact that $100m will not cover payment of a subsidy to make the price of wool up to 36c a lb in the context of wool prices today. 
I saw  a  heading in a newspaper recently which said that New South Wales has only  $4.5m  left out of its share of about $35m of the $100m allocated under the rural reconstruction scheme. New South Wales has only $4. 5m left for its reconstruction programme for the next  3)  years. The Minister for Air. when replying, may commit the Government to another $100m or $200m if he likes but the legislation provides for $10Om. New South Wales has only $4. 5m left and is to get no more for another  3  years. The Minister may say that that is rubbish if he wants to but he will have to point out to me the legislation under which more money will be provided. 
It will not be dealt with in this Budget because the brokers will get this money. How many wool growers will get assistance? 
That is only getting rid of the $10Om a little more quickly. The purpose of this Bill is to subsidise prices. 
Big pastoralists in the industry fought for many years against subsidies. I do not know whether they thought they could get out of their difficulties in time or whether they acted snobbishly and would not lower themselves to take a subsidy. Whatever the reason was, today they realise their mistake and that they have to take some sort of subsidy or assistance. Again I say that the assistance will not go to the people who need it most, that is, the small and large growers who are in financial difficulties. We must remember that the rural debt is over $2, 000m and quite a substantial amount of that sum is owed by wool growers. Those who have financed wool growers and have liens on their wool become the owners of the wool and will get the subsidy that is paid. 
How much of this subsidy will go to the real producers. How much of it will be disbursed in country towns amongst country business people who keep shops for the convenience of the farmers in the surrounding area? How much of it will go into the pockets of the producers to help maintain the rural work force? The Minister must provide these answers if he is to satisy the Australian nation that the Government, through this legislation, is doing anything to assist the actual producers. It is of no good for the Government to say that it has instituted a subsidisation scheme or a wool deficiency payments scheme to assist the industry. It is not the industry that the Government is assisting; the great bulk of the money that will flow out of this subsidisation scheme will so. as it usually does, into the hands of the middle nien who rake off the profits but produce nothing. Those are the people who will get the most out of this scheme. 1 warn the Government that it should have a very close look at the operation of this legislation. 1 am pleased that it is to operate for only J 2 months. This will give the Government the opportunity to examine and explore the mistakes that it is making by introducing this legislation. I am nol saving for one minute that the wool growers should not get some sort of subsidy: 1 am saying that the subsidy should be on the basis of need and on no other basis. A few months ago I heard the Acting Prime Minister and the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  make the clear and unambiguous statement on television in Perth that subsidy schemes inevitably assisted those who least needed the assistance. The Minister was prepared to say that in the public forum and that is the sort of thing that should be looked at. If the Government intends to reproduce this sort of scheme next year without trying to cure some of the anomalies the Australian Labor Party will not let the legislation go unopposed; it will have to oppose it. It is not fair and it is not right that the Government should have an open-ended avenue into the Treasury to assist people who do not need assistance, to assist people who will not put anything into the country areas but who put the money into the cities or the pockets of overseas investors. That is money which will not be retained in the country areas; it will not even be retained within Australia. The Government will have to have a really good look at this scheme if it wants the Australian Labor Party to assist it in the future. 
What is the real trouble with the wool industry today? Is it not that prices are low, costs are high and that there is a lack of markets? We must accept the fact that these are the 3 basic issues that confound the industry today. There are side issues also. I agree with  Senator Sim  when he says that it is almost impossible to buy pure wool. My wife has been trying to buy pure knitting wool in Perth over the past few months and it is impossible to buy a skein of it. You can buy plenty of other types of wool but not pure wool. When you can buy it you have to pay 50c for an ounce skein yet the grower is being paid only from 30c to 35c a lb for wool. So we should be looking at markets. 
Only recently I learned that never at any time have we had a trade post in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. We do not have one today and we will not have one this year, but sometime in the new year one will be set up in that country. The USSR is the country with the type of population and climate that would welcome wool. Synthetics are not much good in the really cold countries. What attempts has Australia made to sell wool in China? Much of China is in a pretty cold zone. The Australian Wheat Board has made deals with that country to sell wheat even though over the years Australia has not  recognised it. Australia has recognised it for the purpose of trade but what are we doing with regard to wool? 
When I was in my room I heard  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson introducing Bills to provide for loans from the American people for the purchase from America of equipment for Qantas Airways Ltd and defence equipment. When one borrows from America it is a condition of the loan that one purchases the goods concerned in America. What real promotion has been made in the United States? What real pressure is being put on the United States to reduce the 25c tariff barrier against the entry of Australian wool into the United States? The answer is absolutely none. We regard America as big brother and we should not offend America by bringing pressure to bear on it. We will borrow from it and trade wilh it in every other way but we will not attempt to find a market in America for our goods. I say that the Government has been lax in its marketing campaigns with respect to wool. 
I turn now to the matter of costs. What has the Government really done in an endeavour to reduce the costs in industry? Every time we pick up a paper we find that there has been an application by some shipping company to increase freight rates. What action does the Government take, It leaves this matter to the committee which was set up to look at overseas freight rates. What do the shipping companies care about Australian industries? Why is not the matter of freight rates looked at on a Government level? Why does not the Government step in and tell these people that if they are not prepared to carry our wool and other products at reasonable rates will set up our own overseas shipping line and carry our own products? We might as well do that even if it means subsidising an Australian shipping line. At the present time we are subsidising overseas shipping lines. 1 do not think that there is any answer to this problem except to tell the shipowners that we are not prepared to allow them to carry our products unless they charge reasonable and rational freight rates. - What is being done internally to reduce costs? We see in the papers that States are constantly increasing freight rates on rail traffic. I know that in Western Australia one can cart a ton of iron ore from Koolyanobbin to Perth for S3 a ton but if one attempts to cart a ton of wool to Perth over the same distance it will cost SI 6.30 a ton. What does the Government intend to do about this sort of thing? Does it intend to assist the State railway services to operate so that they can charge lower freight rates? The Western Australian Government is subsidising freight rates on all woOl transported from south of Narrogin to the Albany wool sales in order to keep those wool sales open and a decentralised industry operating. But what is the Commonwealth Government doing about this sort of thing? It is doing nothing at all. The Government is doing nothing to try to reduce the overall cost structure of the industry. When one looks at the various methods which have to be used to handle a bale of wool, insure it, and give it fire protection, the cost of all those things which go with it is approximately $40 a bale. At the present time the growers are not receiving anywhere near double that amount for their wool. Before the grower receives anything, $40 has to come out of the price. These are the costs which the growers must pay. 
What is the Government doing in an endeavour to reduce those costs? I do not believe that it is doing very much. It brings down these 3 hotch-potch methods about which I have spoken to try to tell the people that it is doing something to assist the industry. In fact, by these measures the Government is only prolonging the agony. I want to emphasise that this Bill will give assistance to those who are not on the production side of the industry - to what may be termed the middlemen, the brokers, the bankers, the stock firms and the finance companies. These organisations will not receive the  $100m  which will be provided under this Bill - or even more because it is an openended Bill - but they will receive the great bulk of this amount. This scheme is like the Fill contract. We do not know what it is going to cost. We do not know how far the price of wool might fall on the auction market this year. But whatever it falls to, the Government will be committed by this scheme to bring the price to 36c for eligible wool. Some wools are not eligible for this payment. I do not have time to go into that matter but I think that the  switch which was made in the types of wool that are ineligible was not to the advantage of the industry. 
The Acting Prime Minister has run around the country talking about supply management. But at no time has he attempted to define what he means by supply management. To me supply management can mean only one thing and that is management of the supply of the commodity. What are we doing to see that the types of wool which are saleable are put on the market? In fact what are we doing to see [hat the goods we are putting on the market are in a marketable form? This is not the first time that 1 have criticised the system of the presentation of the Australian wool clip. I criticised it in 1960 and I have criticised it every time a wool Bill has been before this Parliament. We do not present the wool in a manner which is attractive to the buyer. I hope that the system of core testing and objective measurement will be adopted. That will be one way of reducing costs because it will reduce a lot of the handling costs. The Government should be vigorously getting into this campaign. I do not want to delay the Senate but I do say that the measures that are forecast in the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson  has been supported at some time or other - but not in this place - by members of the Australian Country Party and the Liberal Party. When one talks to these members they agree that one of the possible solutions for the wool industry is a total acquisition scheme. But when such a suggestion is made in this chamber in the form of an Opposition amendment is there support for it? 
I do not want to get angry, this is not the type of Bill about which I would want to get angry. I think the honourable senator should understand that we are not here to spell out the details of a scheme. Give us the operation of government, give us the opportunity to institute a scheme and we will spell out the details of it. We did it during the First World War. Perhaps the honourable senator is not old enough to remember that. We did it also during the Second World War. Do not forget that when we disposed of the bulk of the wool at the end of the Second World War, even though every grower had been paid for his wool at a price satisfactory to himself, we made a profit of ,£90m and we handed that, too, to the grower. Do not say that a scheme cannot be spelt out. We say that there should be an acquisition scheme. Give us the opportunity and we will institute a scheme which will be satisfactory to the growers. 
Do any of the senators on the Government side seriously contest the proposition that if a subsidy is paid it should not be paid on the basis of need? I know that Government senators will show their support for this measure when we take a vote on it, but do they support in their own minds a scheme that gives very little to the producer? It may relieve him of some debt; it may relieve him only of the interest on some debt, but what will it put into his pocket? What bread and butter will it put on the table for his wife and children unless it is determined on the basis of need? 
Sentaor Lawrie  -  You blokes are against a means test. 
I think you are displaying as much foolishness as your colleague from Queensland displayed a little while ago. It would be wise if you did not allow me to have a real shot at you. The third proposition that the Australian Labor Party puts up is to provide a reconstruction scheme. We do so because of its importance. Our proposal is as follows:  implement a progressive reconstruction and rehabilitation programme to apply to those areas of wool production and marketing which are in urgent need of improvement and assistance. 
Will not any honourable senator opposite support such a scheme? I know that when a vote is taken they will not support it, but do they not support privately in their own minds the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the wool industry? If they do not then they have little concern for one of the major industries of Australia. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate but it may also be of interest to you,  Mr President.  Has the Minister been made aware of a meeting to take place in Parliament House tonight to discuss homosexual law reform? Will the meeting be addressed by members of the Canberra homosexual law reform society? Will the society members be addressing a committee of the Parliament or any recognised parliamentary political party committee? If the society members are not to address any such committee, can it be taken that the meeting is a public meeting? Since when has Parliament House been available for public meetings? Is permission to be given to any person or group of persons to hold public meetings in Parliament House? 
 Not very long ago cries were going through this chamber and the other place, when there was some industrial strife, in this country about who governs Australia. People were referring to  Mr Bob  Hawke. I put it straight to the Government: Who owns Australia? I think this is the question that people have to ask themselves. It is all very well for the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to say that 88 per cent of the investment in Australia is generated within Australia and that 12 per cent is generated outside Australia. This belittles the question. It is not so much the volume of investment that one should be looking at; it is the area of the investment.  Senator Cotton  said that other countries have developed on overseas investment. He gave the example of the great United States and the way in which it developed on overseas investment. He went on to say that the United States paid off its investment. As  Senator Cotton  should know, what happened was that the Americans regained ownership of their industries as a result of Great Britain's involvement in the First World War. 

 Senator Cotton said that even though we have foreign investment in Australia today the industries will return to Australian ownership at a later stage. I think that  Senator Cotton  is still thinking pre-World War I. The Minister fails to acknowledge the development of the multi-national company, which has little regard for boundaries or anything else. It will move from one country to another as it feels disposed. If there are better profits to be made somewhere else the industries will not come to Australia. The story of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is unlikely to be repeated in Australia.  Senator Sim  talked about risk capital. I shall give him the highlights of risk capital, if he wants that. He talked about the Hamersley group. Australians were never invited to put any risk capital into the Hamersley group. 
 I refer to clause 3 which reads in part: 
Section 3 of the Pyrites Bounty Act 1960- 1970 is amended: 
by omitting from the definition of 'the bounty period' in sub-section (1.) the words December, One thousand nine hundred and seventy' and inserting in their stead the words 'May, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two'; 
by omitting from sub-section (2.) the words December, One thousand nine hundred and seventy' and inserting in their stead the words 'May, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two'; 
I move: 
Clause 3. That the House of Representatives be requested to amend paragraphs (a) and (b) by leaving out the words 'May, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two', and inserting 'thirtyfirst day of December, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-four'. 
The remarks that I would have made in relation to this amendment have already been made with respect to an amendment which I moved to the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Bill. I shall say no more, but the Opposition will take this matter to a division. 
 A debate on this Bill has already taken place during the second reading debate on the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Bill. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill, but I shall move an amendment in the Committee stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
 Mr Deputy President,  there are 2 Bills relating to this matter to be considered, the Sulphuric Acid Bounty Bill 1971 and the Pyrites Bounty Bill 1971. With the permission of the Senate I will address myself to both Bills at the one time, but I presume that they will be dealt with separately in Committee. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is it the wish of the Senate that the 2 Bills be discussed together? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
 The decision to discontinue the bounty is based on a report of the Tariff Board presented to the Parliament in May this year. It is interesting to note that the reference as to whether a bounty to both these industries should or should not be paid was given to the Tariff Board in 1968, the evidence was taken in 1969 and the Board's report was given to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in the middle of 1970. It was made available to the Parliament in May 1971. about 12 months after the Board presented it. Action on the report in the Parliament is only now being taken. The debate on the report was initiated in the other place on 4th November and the Bill is now before us for debate, 3 years after the reference was given to the Tariff Board and 18 months after the Board presented its report to the Minister. Obviously the Tariff Board report is now so out of date that it is hardly worth looking at. 
There has been a change of circumstance in the industry during that period which the Board was not able to take into consideration when preparing its report. Later I will be moving amendments to both Bills in an effort to have the bounty to be paid to the 2 industries extended until 1974. The price of the landed commodity in Australia at present is about $26 a ton. The Tariff Board said in its 1967 report that the industry should receive assistance if and when the landed cost of imports fell below$28 a ton. The price of the landed imports of this commodity has been $26 a ton for at least 12 months. These are not industries which are commenced overnight nor are they industries which should be closed down overnight. Whenever private enterprise or, for that matter, government enterprise goes into an Industry it sets up plant for the purpose of operating for a particular period of time. That is borne out by the allowances in the taxation Acts for the depreciation over a period of time of capital equipment. These industries were given fairly firm guarantees by the Government and by the Tariff Board that they would receive assistance from the Government until 1974 - 20 years from the time when the bounty started in 1954. The Tariff Board repeated this in its 1967 report. There is no doubt that the Tariff Board is entitled to change ils mind, but should it change its mind in such a very short period of time? Although it did in its 1967 report give the industries some security it has now recommended in its latest report that the industries be closed down. I realise that it was not altogether a sudden slap in the face because the recommendation of the Tariff Board was that the Government could most appropriately fulfil its obligation - the Board admitted that there was an obligation and that that obligation continued until 1974  -  to the enterprises referred to in the reference by the payment of compensation. It also said that assistance should not be accorded to the production in Australia of the goods under reference. 
All I am saying is that lt is quite clear that the Board has admitted, as it did in its 1967 report, that there is an obligation on the part of the Government. The Government has found the back door way out of its obligation by discontinuing the bounty and paying compensation to the industries on the basis of the loss of the value of plant after depreciation and everything else is taken into account. Compensation has not been offered on the basis of what these industries may have been able to earn in the period between May of next year, which is when it is proposed to discontinue the bounty, and 31st December 1974. In my opinion projected earnings should have been taken into account in any assessment of compensaton and not just the loss of the value of the plant Installed. Sulphuric acid is, of course, a very important ingredient of superphosphate, which is essential to the primary industries in Australia, particularly the agricultural and pastoral industries. However, modern technology has now allowed the production of sulphuric acid to be displaced. I am not always sure whether it is a good or a bad thing because 1 look to these industries as being Australian industries which are employing Australian labour and providing to our primary industries an essential commodity; I admit it is being provided under bounty, but at least it is being provided at a reasonably stable price, which means some stability of cost to the primary industries. 
Another factor which must be taken into account is the displacement of the work force associated with these industries, particularly wilh the production of pyrites. 1 am acutely aware of what happened in 1964 to the mine at Northam when the bounty was discontinued. It went out of production. It seems to me that apart from the iron ore and nickel industries, which are in substance overseas owned the Government has a set against mining industries because it is directing itself to closing down the mines in Tasmania and it is directing itself to closing down a mine in South Australia. All the workers associated with these industries in the outer areas of the 2 States I have mentioned are at present housed and supplied with most of the community services which small towns are able to offer. If these industries go out of production the workers employed in them will have to move away from these small towns because, in the main, there are no other industries in those towns to which they can go foi employment. They will in the main migrate to the cities. In doing so they will bring further pressure to bear upon the community services provided in the cities. The overall result is a tendency towards centralisation rather than decentralisation. I do not know how many workers are employed in the 2 mines and the treatment plant in Tasmania, but I do know that Tasmania already has the highest unemployment figures of any State in the Commonwealth. The workers who lose their employment as a result of the closing down of these industries probably will not be able to find alternative employment in 
Tasmania and will have to migrate to the mainland to obtain employment. A State which has been battling to keep its head above water will get another shot in the back because of the closing down of some of its industries. 
I do not want to say much more at this stage on this legislation. 1 will be proposing an amendment at the Committee stage. I will them elaborate a little more on my proposition. The proposed amendment to both Bills will have as its purpose the continuance of the bounty until 1974. I realise that this House of the Parliament cannot propose such an amendment because of the constitutional position, but it can make a request to the other House to amend the Bills accordingly. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to amend paragraphs (a) and (b) by leaving out the words 'May, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-two', and inserting 'thirty-first day of December, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-four'. 
The purpose of the amendment, as I stated briefly when I was speaking earlier, is to continue the bounty payment to 1974, which is the real obligation of the Government to the industry'- I shall not use the words that were used in another place, but I do believe that the Tariff Board was used on this occasion lo get the Government off the hook of having to pay the bounty until 1.974, which is the year to which the industry thought it would have protection and be able to operate. We submit that if the Government is prepared to accept the amendment it will discharge it obligations. Until this report came out the industry was entitled to assume that it would receive protection until 1974. Even though the Government now proposes to pay compensation amounting. I understand, to approximately $2m, despite what  Senator Cotton  says about extending the bounty for 18 months, for the purposes of this Parliament the bounty is being extended from now until May 1972. We believe that every effort should be made to save the industries, not only for the sake of those people employed in them, not only for the purpose of continuing the industries, but also because of the amount of foreign exchange that will be saved by the continuance of these industries. 1 understand that this works out at about $5m a year. 
Yesterday we had a great debate on foreign investment in this country. It was an interesting debate. I was a little sorry that it was not a full debate because one was not able to say sufficient in 15 minutes on such an important subject. But here we have an Australian industry established in 2 States of Australia supplying a product which is of national importance to our agricultural and pastoral industries, and we are closing it down.  Senator Davidson  said that we could get some sulphuric acid from the treatment plants at Mount lsa and Kalgoorlie. I remind the honourable senator that within 2 years Kalgoorlie will be closed down unless this Government alters its attitude towards making available a subsidy to the gold mining industry. Mount Isa. I hope, will continue to operate. But the Government has said, through the Tariff Board, that the available supplies of brimstone throughout the world are sufficient for the foreseeable future. It is necessary to know whether we can purchase the brimstone and the sulphuric acid which is imported into this country. Even though there may be a world surplus, do we have guaranteed supplies? What negotiations has the Government carried out to make sure that this vital commodity to the Australian agricultural and pastoral industries will be available for the foreseable future? 
 Ample world supplies are not sufficient unless you have some lien on them. Will you be able to get them? The second proposition I put to the Minister is this: Will the Government be able to get the supplies at economic prices? Once we close down our own industries and put ourselves into the hands of the overseas producers and the importers we have no further control over the price that we have to pay for the commodity. The Government is already subsidising the superphosphate industry, and it has done a very good job. I am not complaining about that at all. lt has given some stability to the price to the consumer of that commodity. But, once we move out of our own industry and out of control of our own production and put ourselves in the hands of the world, we may be in quite a different position. So, the first question I ask is: What negotiations have been carried out and what firm or projected contracts has the Government been able to enter into to assure a continuous supply of the raw product? The second question is: What negotiations have been carried out and what contracts have been made on a government to government level or a government to industry level to assure us that we will be able to purchase the commodity that we require at economic prices? 
Unless the Governnent can give some assurances on those questions now, I am inclined to the view that the industry should not be closed down until such time as those assurances can be given. The commodity that is being produced is too important to the whole of Australia for us to be putting ourselves in the hands of overseas people. I put it to the Minister that these are questions that must be looked at. If the amendments that are proposed by the Australian Labor Party to both these Bills are accepted, that will give the Government time to manoeuvre and time to negotiate for the supplies that I say we are entitled to have. We are entitled to know what we can obtain on the world markets. We are entitled to know where we can get this commodity at economic prices. The amendments would allow the Government the period until 1974 in which to negotiate firm contracts for supply and firm contract prices. 

 Senator Davidson, in talking about the South Australian industry, said that alternative employment had been obtained. He mentioned water supply projects and one other source of employment which I forget just at the moment. He failed to advise the Senate that the employment on water supply projects is more or less casual employment; it is not permanent employment. 
1 will accept that; but the first one is in the nature of casual employment. The point I make is that it is admitted even by Ministers, although they will not accept the forecasts made by the Australian Labor Party, that we are running into a difficult period in regard to unemployment, with school leavers and other people seeking employment. So we should not now be taking actions that will add to that unemployment. We should not now be taking actions that will add to unemployment in the cities. We should not now be taking actions that will deplete the populations of existing country towns. We should not now be taking actions that will bring greater pressures upon the community services in the cities. 1 do not want to string this debate out. I say that the Government should give serious thought to whether it should proceed to dispose of this industry before such lime as the matters I have mentioned are negotiated properly and this Parliament can be advised that the commodity will be available at economic prices. 
The Australian Labor Party will not oppose the Bill which provides for the extension of the south-west region water supplies scheme to provide water for the drier wheat and sheep areas in Western Australia both northeast and south of the metropolitan area. It has to be remembered that the main sources of water in Western Australia are around the metropolitan area. The water for this scheme will be drawn from 2 main dams - Mundaring Weir, within 20 miles of the metropolitan area, and Wellington Dam, about 120 miles south of the metropolitan area. The scheme was started by the Chifley Government which entered into an arrangement with the Western Australian Government to pipe water into the drier agricultural and pastoral areas of the State, excluding the northern pastoral areas, in order to provide water for stock and the small country towns which the farming communities supported. One could ask whether, as the downturn in the rural industries continues,the water supplies should continue to be extended into these areas. My answer would be that, although there is a downturn in the wool industry, there is not necessarily a downturn in the wheat industry. 
Wheat is not grown in irrigated areas. The wheat farmers derive benefit from this scheme by having available water for domestic purposes and in the towns which are the centres of their operations. Pastoralists use the water to water stock. While there may be a downturn in the wool industry today, the extension of the scheme will allow the wool growers to diversify their operations. They will be able to go into the production of meat. It has to be remembered that our exports of meat to the American market fell short by 40 million lb last financial year. So there is an opportunity and a market for a greater production of meat. These farms could be diversified into the production of meat. The scheme is still of verygreat importance to the drier areas of Western Australia. 
Because of the time taken to complete the scheme the cost of construction has increased. The present stage of the scheme will cost an extra $3m. Therefore the agreement is for the Commonwealth to make available to Western Australia a further$1. 5m to complete this stage of the scheme. In the greater part of Australia water conservation and distribution are very important, because Australia is the driest continent. It could be said that there is not a decent river running through Australia. In the northern part of Australia some very large rivers run intermittently in the wet season. The main sources of water in the south are the Murray River and the 
Murrumbidgee River. So we are bound to conserve as much water as we can. Even though we hear some academic criticism of water conservation projects, I do not believe that the critics have thought through the subject that they criticise as far as they should in view of their education. They are making only educated guesses. I do not know of any part of Australia where water that has been conserved has not been used. 
The conservation projects associated with this comprehensive water scheme have been completed. That is the distribution aspect which is just as important as the conservation because it is of no use conserving water unless we are able to distribute it. It is distributed over many miles. Quite a good job is done. Nevertheless, there are still people in Western Australia who are carting water to water stock for distances of up to 70 miles. One farmer I was talking to a few days ago has been carting water for stock that distance for the past 2 years because of drought conditions in his area. So it is important that the scheme be extended as soon as possible to areas that require it. Therefore, the Opposition welcomes the Commonwealth Government's contribution to this scheme and will support the Bill. 
I enter this debate because of the seriousness with which I look at the Australian economy. I want to make some short replies to some of the speakers who have taken part in this debate. As usual, Government speakers constantly attack the workers. They say that the workers are to blame for everything that happens in this country.  Senator Webster  rounded off his speech by saying that Labor Party senators constantly criticise the wool industry. 
 Labor senators have not on one occasion,  Senator Webster,  criticised the wool industry. We have criticised the policy of the Government towards the wool industry. We say frankly now that the Government is throwing dough down the drain every day with its policies. Its policies are not the cure for the industry at all.  Senator Webster  talked about the high percentage of employment over the 22 years that the Government has been in office. He is a bit wet behind the cars because he forgets what happened in 1961-62 when 3.5 per cent of the work force was unemployed as the result, and  a  direct result, of Government policies. In order to cure the economy the Government deliberately set out to create unemployment, just as it is setting out to create unemployment today, lt is not doing it on such a large scale as in 1960-61 because it was nearly defeated in the 1961 election. It is a little more cautious now. If  Senator Webster  wants to examine the record of unemployment let him do so, because that is what he will find. 
I would tell  Senator Webster  a little about that if I had time but all I will say to him in the first instance is that  Mr Wilson  was not in government more than 6 weeks before the international banks had to finance him to the extent of £3,000m in order to get him out of the debt created by the financiers who tried to destroy the socialist government in England. Within 6 weeks they tried to destroy the Government. There are more ways than the ballot box of destroying a government. 

 Senator Carrick spoke about 1.5 per cent unemployment in Western Australia where there is a Labor Government and only 1 per cent in New South Wales. He said also that the Western Australian Government and the South Australian Government should be asked to implement price control.  Senator Carrick  is an old stager in the Liberal Party. He well knows that the conservative parties and their supporters in 1949 spent £2m on propaganda to defeat a prices referendum. They told the people of that day that the States would be able to control prices. The States today cannot even agree on the time of day let alone conduct a proper price control policy. If  a  price control policy is to be conducted it must be conducted from the Federal sphere, but this Government, while it allies itself to everything that will cost money along with the American policy, is not. prepared to adopt President Nixon's policy of placing  a  freeze on wages and prices. That is out of order because it would hit the people who pay the bills. 
I advocate price control, yes. We have always had price control. In 1904 a non-Labor government passed an arbitration Act to control wages, and there has always been control. Do not talk to me about the fact that there is greater unemployment in Western Australia than there is in New South Wales. It is a direct result of policies adopted by this Government. Unemployment is not the responsibility of the Western Australian Government at al! but the responsibility of the Federal Liberal-Country Party Government. 1 invite the attention of honourable senators to the' great primary industries party, the little hillbilly corner, that supports primary industries in the areas where its candidates get the value of 2 votes for one in the city. That is why they are able to come back to this Parliament with 20 members on 10 per cent of the votes. But when it comes to the primary industry of gold mining where do they stand? Are they interested in it at all? Of course they are not. Everyone knows about the S300m for the wool industry, the millions that we pour into the wheat industry and the millions that we will have to pour into the fruit industry. For the sake of $2. 5m per year the gold mines in Kalgoorlie could be kept open. But Country Party supporters will not support that proposition because it does not return a hillbilly to hillbilly corner. 
I do not know whether there are other people in this community who have driven through the desolation of closed down mining towns, but I was in Wittenoom Gorge 2 days before the announcement of the close down of the blue asbestos mine. The day that I was in Wittenoom Gorge the homes of the workers we're valued at $3,000; 2 days after I left they could not get $50 for them. I was in Wiluna when the Wiluna mine closed down. At that time houses that were valued at $6,000 could not be sold for $50. Through its policy of refusing to support the gold mining industry the Country Party is deliberately creating an unemployment situation in Kalgoorlie. It is not only creating an unemployment situation but also destroying a city. It will create an unemployment pool of 1,500 skilled miners plus all those people in the associated service industries. Where will these people  go?  They will have to  go  to the metropolitan area to get employment. There is no alternative employment in the Kalgoorlie district. lt is not a bit of use the Government talking about the nickel industry being able to take up the slack. There are only about 2 nickel mines working, and only one of these, the Western Mining Corporation Ltd, is operating on a large scale. Great Boulder is purchasing some nickel front Scotia and another company is producing some from Napier on a small scale. But there is only one big mine, and it is unlikely that another big mine capable of absorbing a number of workers will be opened up within the next 5 years. Yet this Government will allow those mines to be closed down for the sake of $2.5m a year. lt pours money into the rural industries. 1 do not object to the rural people getting assistance. 1 think that they have earned some assistance, but 1 think that they have earned some assistance based on properly directed policies and not the policies that are being pursued by the Government. As 1 have said before, the Australian Wool Commission is an absolute failure. I do not know what it will cost in the long run. The rural reconstruction scheme is an absolute failure. The Government's wool deficiency payments scheme will never benefit the small grower but, in the main, only the big grower and the broker. The leader of the Country Party frankly admits that subsidies usually go to the people who least need them. So with the policies that the Government is pursuing with respect to the rural industries, particularly the wool industry, I say that there is a deliberate attempt by this Government to create unemployment. 1 refer in particular to the gold mining industry. I have had experience of mining towns closing down. There is no warning and the mines do not open again. Once a mine gets flooded that is the end of it. It is not opened up again. The owners can, if they like, open up very costly new shafts and leave barriers between them and the water, but it is a very difficult and expensive job to reopen any mine. Is it expected that the mine owners will keep on a caretaker shift in order to keep the mines ready to be opened? Because of the miserable policy of the United States, with its fictitious price of gold at SUS35 per ounce, are the mine owners to be left in the position of having to have caretakers in their mines until the American Government settles its monetary differences with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics so that any increase in the price of gold will not boost the economy of the USSR? This is the thinking behind the strangulation of the price of gold. Until such time as the Government looks at what effect that policy is having in Western Australia it ill behoves a senator from New South Wales to say that because there is a Labor government in Western Australia there is greater unemployment in that State. I think the senator should apologise for having made that statement. A similar statement was used by  Sir David  Brand and  Mr Charles  Court iti the Ascot by-election, but it did not get them anywhere. 
Western Australian merchants and traders have a trade of SI Om with the Northern Territory, particularly with Darwin. For a number of years they have serviced the port of Darwin through the State shipping service. The Western Australian Government finds that it is unable to continue the service through to Darwin and, for economic reasons, it must cease running that part of the service from 31st December. The State Government has repeatedly asked the Commonwealth for assistance to continue that service. TheCommonwealth Government has repeatedly refused to give that assistance. Only last night I learned that the Australian National Line has a ship that it can operate from Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane to Darwin. That  Si  Om trade from Western Australia will be transferred to the eastern seaboard. When it is transferred another large group of workers in Western Australia will be out of employment. The unemployment being created is being created deliberately by this Government. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Stage 5 Extensions of the Stokes Hill Power Station, Darwin; 
Brucella Vaccine Testing Laboratory at Canberra, A.C.T. 
 I want to raise the question of the value of Estimates Committees. When they first started I had a quite high regard for them. I have found in my investigations of the departments that the Committees are pretty valueless. I say that after a pretty fair consideration of the Estimates in the 1970 Budget, the Supplementary Estimates in May of this year and again the Estimates of 1971-72. I find that even though there is a great value in being able to question the officers who are brought in by the various Ministers to advise them, nevertheless there is a lack of information within the officers who are brought before the Estimates Committees, particularly in relation to the departments that a Minister only represents. I have no criticism whatsoever of the departments for which the Ministers are directly responsible. Bus in relation to the departments for which he is a proxy, if I may put it that way, there is a very great weakness. 
I find that when I question the officers who are sent up to give the information to the Parliament those officers - I might be excused if I use the expression - are incompetent to be able to answer the questions that are asked by honourable senators. I do not mean that in any disparaging way with respect to the officers, but the information is not available through the officers who are sent up to give the information. I say that as  a  member of an Estimates Committee that represents almost one-third of the departments controlled by the various Ministers - those departments for which  Senator Cotton  is responsible. I say it with  a  great appreciation of the efforts of  Senator Cotton  to bring out the information that the Committee required. But I find on various occasions that when a question is asked and the Minister in charge refers the question to the officers present the officers are unable to answer the question posed by an honourable senator. Then it is proposed that the question be answered by letter. This destroys the opportunity for honourable senators to cross-examine the witness. I refer in this case to the officer of the department as the witness. Dependent upon the answer that one receives is the follow-up question. Dependent upon the answer that one receives is the ability to be able to probe the particular line that one is pursuing. The  answer  that the departmental head or the departmental officer may give subsequently does not fulfil the question because one is unable to crossexamine the officer on the answer. I think that this exposes the weakness in the system which is operating at the present time. Unless the officers who are sent up to the Committees are competent to answer the questions that honourable senators ask, the whole system of Senate Estimates Committees is destroyed. 
I find that the Senate and the Parliament . are ill equipped to attempt to assemble the proper information and to institute searching inquiries about the Estimates. The meetings of the Estimates Committees represent the opportunity that the Senate has to examine and to probe the financial policies of the Government. It is the only time during the year when an opportunity is offered to examine the policies and projects of the Government. Because of the lack of facilities available in this Parliament there is no proper opportunity for the exposure of the Government's policies. When an Estimates Committee meets in this chamber there is an opportunity to expose the Government. However, when the Estimates  Committees meet  outside this chamber and questions are asked that are diametrically opposed to the policies of the Government there are no media representatives present to report them. 
The Government has said that  2  Estimates Committees  are to  meet at the  one  time. One Committee meets in this chamber and the facilities provided arc just  as  they are today. If representatives of the media desire to attend or are willing to attend  and  listen to the questions asked by senators, there is an opportunity to expose the Government's policies. But the other Estimates Committee must meet in room  L17. 
With an open door, but when the Minister concerned brings in  14  advisers from one department and  12  or  13  advisers from another department, not knowing how long it will take to deal with one department, it is rather crowded. 
I am talking about room  L17,  the second chamber for the meetings of Estimates Committees. By the time that  24  or  25  advisers are accommodated in that room there is not room for a member of the public or  a  representative of the media to put his bottom. When meetings of the Estimates Committees are held in that chamber it means that the Government is holding the' Parliament in camera. If it wants to pursue that policy of holding the Parliament in camera, that is its business, but the Parliament of this nation is a public forum. The meetings of the Estimates Committees constitute the most important inquiry into the Government's financial policies and relations between the Commonwealth and the States. Until adequate facilities for such an inquiry to be held in public are provided the Government should not be holding meetings of the Estimates Committees, as it were, in camera. That is what it is doing. 
Certain inhibitions are imposed upon senators when the Estimates Committees meet in this chamber. I know that at present (here is certain heat within the community about the health aspects of cigarette smoking. I smoke like a chimney. Because this is the Senate chamber there are no facilities for Committee members to be able to have a smoke. Committee meetings are rather intensive inquiries. If a member of an Estimates Committee wants to inquire into a particular appropriation it is not safe for him to leave the table and have a smoke outside the chamber, because as soon as he leaves the table-  Senator Douglas  McClelland will support me on this matter - the appropriation that he is waiting to inquire into will go through without a question being asked about it. A Committee member may be called out of the - chamber to receive a telephone call and thus miss an opportunity to query an appropriation 
During the 12 months that the Estimates Committees have been operating I have developed a great admiration for some members of the Public Service. T have been able to make friends with public servants I did not know existed and 1 have been able to talk to them on an equal scale. 1 have increased my knowledge of particular departments and I have been given an opportunity to understand the thinking of departmental officers that may differ from my thinking on particular projects. Because of the lack of facilities in this place to make proper inquiries I am inhibited. I say quite frankly that 1 have already notified my Leader tha* at the first opportunity I will move that the Labor Party no longer take part in the meetings of Estimates Committees. I do not know whether my colleagues will agree with me when T move a motion of that sort. I feel that the value of the Estimates Committees has been lost. 
Later this evening, if. the Committee of the Whole discusses document A, 1 will expose what happens when one asks for information and the officers are unable to provide it. I do not blame the officers. A Minister representing a department may not even know whether the estimates of that department are before this Committee or another Committee, whether a particular appropriation is being dealt with by another Committee or by the Committee before which he is appearing. Until these problems can be overcome the Estimates Committee system should be discontinued because it is unsatisfactory. I spoke to certain people. I was accused of asking questions not to gather information but to obtain publicity. 
 No. How does one expose this Government other than by asking questions that the media will take up so that the public may be informed? If there is to be a distinction between asking questions for the purpose of obtaining publicity and asking questions for the purpose of gaining information, I point out that it is not I who wants the information. I want the information from the officers of the various departments so that it will be exposed to the public. There is only one medium that exposes it to the public, and that is the radio, television and newspapers. When we hold the proceedings of Estimates Committees in camera we are denying the right of the people to be given information. That cannot be defended in a democracy. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is sales tax payable on seat bells installed in motor vehicles: if so, will the Treasurer give  favourable consideration to its abolition in view of the fact that in many States the wearing of seat belts is now compulsory. 
Seat belts designed for the protection of persons in motor vehicles are exempt from sales tax. The exemption is effective whether the seat belts are fitted by the vehicle manufacturer in the course of production of vehicles or are purchase separately by a vehicle owner for installation at a later stage. 
 I would like some comment from the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Colton)  about the application by TransAustralia Airlines for the right to operate on the Perth-Darwin route. I know that TAA has applications for other routes within Western Australia but they can be granted only with ihe consent of the Western Australian Government. TransAustralia Airlines has the right to operate on the interstate route: the High Court of Australia decided that in 1946. 1 do not know exactly when TAA applied to fly the Perth-Darwin route but I know that an application was made in 1957 and that negotiations were completed. The West Australian Government agreed to allow TAA to enter that sphere in that State and just as the agreement was about to be signed the then Minister for Civil Aviation instructed TAA to break off negotiations. I know that since that time there has been quite a build up in the population of Western Australia north of Perth, f know that the agreement that protected the operations of MacRobertson-Miller Airlines on this route expired on 30th September and that TAA made its application some months before the expiration of that agreement. 
I understand the procedure is that the Department of Civil Aviation makes a recommendation to the Minister for Civil Aviation and that the Minister then has the right of veto, the right to recommend whether or not the airline shall be allowed to operate on a certain route. I think that is the procedure but 1 am not too sure.  I  would like to know what the procedure is to be now. Over 2 months have lapsed since the agreement expired and AnsettANA still is not providing the service required in the northern part of Western Australia. For instance, I wanted to go to Darwin next Sunday. A flight is scheduled by MMA from Perth at 6 a.m. on Sunday but it has been cancelled. I know from speaking to people who wish to travel in Western Australia that flights are frequently cancelled for no reason whatsoever. Time schedules are not maintained. I know that MMA constantly off-loads cargo from its flights north in order to take up passengers because that traffic is mote lucrative. MMA is not providing the service  now  required  in the north of  Western Australia. It is not sufficient for Ansett to distribute pamphlets in his aircraft asking One or two, what's best for you?'. That is quite subtle propaganda. I think it is time a decision was made on this matter. At present there is no agreement protecting MMA and there is no agreement protecting the Australian public. Ansett could discontinue his flights in Western Australia at any time. I repeat that the agreement expired on 30th September. This is not the first application made by TAA to enter this route, and 1 think it is time something was done about it. 
 With due respect to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  I think his trip to Western Australia last week was conditioned by the pamphlet bearing the words: 'One or two, what's best for you?' - the public relations job put out by Captain Kleinig. The Minister said that he had to evaluate this project to determine whether increased expenditure would be required of the Commonwealth Government. 1 take it that that money Would be for ground facilities and that sort of thing to provide assistance for aircraft. I remind the Minister that when MacRobertson-Miller Airlines introduced the F28 aircraft, facilities at most of the aerodromes in the north of Western Australia were not of the standard required for it. The Department of Civil Aviation issued a certificate allowing MMA to use an aircraft which did not meet the standard of the aerodromes. The landing strips were 100 feet wide instead of 150 feet wide. Subsequently the regulations were amended to allow this type of operation to be conducted legally and to save the Commonwealth having to spend money to bring the ground facilities up to the standard required by the aircraft. 
If that can be done for one airline it can be done for another if it finds that it has to put on a similar type of aircraft. This is not a reason for saying that , the Commonwealth will be subjected, to added cost if Trans-Australia Airlines, is given the right to fly this route. 
1 support the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee  because I believe it is important that the Parliament, and particularly the Senate, look at the fuel resources of this country. I refer particularly to the resources of natural gas. Japan is very anxious to purchase natural gas from Australia or from anywhere else in the world where it can be obtained. Its main purpose in buying natural gas is to be able to reduce the pollution of its cities. It would achieve this by using natural gas as a fuel in heavy industry and in other ways throughout its cities. I believe that natural gas, used in a liquefied form in motor vehicles in city traffic, will be the fuel of the future for the reduction of pollution. I cannot see why this fuel should not be controlled by the Government. 
It is all very well to say that we have a control over the continental shelf, but who owns the resources available to us there? How much of those resources do we control? In the Bass Strait area we have control by ownership of 50 per cent of the natural gas in the area. In the Cooper Basin in South Australia, in the main, there is overseas control of gas resources. There is potentially a huge gas field off the coast of Western Australia, but that is owned by overseas interests. By means of a takeover only a few days ago by the Burmah Oil Company, which although British is no different from any other overseas company as it is part of the world's oil cartel and will operate to suit its own economic interests and profits rather than Australia's interests, we lost control of the northwest shelf. The gas which has been found in the adjacent area of the Northern Territory is mainly under the control of a French company. This is the fuel of the future; yet we have lost control of it. 
I would like to ask at a later stage other questions associated with the Department of National Development. I would like to know the answers to these questions at a later stage: Who have the permit areas which have been issued to Woodside Oil NL and Mid-Eastern Oil NL for the north west coast of Western Australia and for the adjacent area of the Northern Territory? What is the position of the shareholders? I read that  Mr Hughes-Jones  objected to the takeover of Woodside Oil and Mid-Eastern Oil by the Burmah Oil Co., which subsequently was able to obtain- 70 per cent of Woodside Oil and 60 per cent of Mid-Eastern Oil and then declare its offer as unconditional.  Mr HughesJones  advised other shareholders in Woodside Oil and Mid-Eastern Oil to accept the offer of the Burmah Oil Company otherwise they would be left without any stock. Their only stock was not the gas but the permit area in which the companies could explore for petroleum and exploit petroleum if they were able to find it. That was their asset. 
Has this Government, through the Department of National Development, agreed to a transfer of the permits from Woodside Oil and Mid-Eastern Oil to the Burmah Oil group? Is that the way that this Government has sold out the shareholders in Woodside Oil and Mid-Eastern Oil? Has the Designated Authority in Western Australia done the same thing because it must be done in collaboration? The Designated Authority does it in Western Australia and the Minister for National Development in the Commonwealth approves of it, if he is consulted or if he has not told the Designated Authority that he does not need to be consulted. These are questions which must be answered. This is a very important fuel to this country. It should bc in (he hands of the people. In fact, it should bc in the hands of the Commonwealth Government and not in the hands of the Stale governments at all. 
Whatever may be said about the rights of the States, their rights do nol extend beyond the 3-mile limit. Not one ounce of natural gas or one teaspoonful of crude oil has been found within the 3-mile limit off shore. All discoveries have been found in Commonwealth territory. Yet the Commonwealth is doing nothing to control these areas that belong to the people, lt should take action through this Parliament. As soon as possible a national fuel and energy policy must be established by this Government. We must conserve the use of the fuel that we have. 
There is one other very large deposit of natural gas in this country. It is in the Mereenie and Palm Valey basins in the Northern Territory. It is within the ambit of this Government to control. Yet proposals have been put up to pipe that gas to the Gull of Carpentaria, liquefy it and send it to Japan. Only recently the Westem Australian Government, before the big strikes on the north west shelf, had to stake a claim for the Commonwealth to protect its interests to be able to pipe that gas to Western Australia to be used in the mineral field of the eastern goldfields and down through the industrial areas in Western Australia. The State Government had lo make an application to the Commonwealth Government to protect its interests in respect of this fuel. This adds to the need for the Commonwealth to establish a national fuel and energy policy. 
I urge upon this Government the need for a proper survey at the earliest opportunity to see that the fuel resources of this country are in the hands of the people or in the hands of this Government for the people. Those resources should be properly surveyed. Proper data should be collected ascertain exactly what quantity of fuel we have. We do not know what amounts of coal we have. We can only guess at the amount of uranium that we have. We saw the fiasco at Nabarlek where many thousands of ions of uranium were alleged to be. Instead of 55,000 tons of uranium, the deposit finished up at 9.000 tons. We do not know what amount of fuel we have. It is lime thai a central collecting office was established at which all of this data could be assembled so that Australia may know what its fuel resources are. Then we would be able to manage the distribution and use of those resources. For those reasons, I support the amendment moved by  Senator Willessee. 
I am quite happy to accept the explanation given by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  provided that I am not told when I come to the estimates for the Department of Air that the vote has already been passed under the Department of the Interior. When the estimates for the Department of Air come before the Committee of the Whole I hope that I will be able to ask questions in relation to Division 707. 
The Committee has not dealt with all the items in document A. I want to refer to Division 707, acquisition of sites and buildings. 
Because of the arrangements that have been made between the leaders of the parties in the Senate, 1 wish to withdraw the motion that I submitted. 
 1 support  the remarks made by  Senator Young,  particularly in respect of the Committee staff,  Mr Bradshaw  and  Mr Smith.  Their efforts were untiring. I think that on many occasions they went beyond the call of duty. Because the inquiry lasted over such a long period - more than 3i years - on many occasions they were deprived of the benefits of home life at weekends and at nights, even when the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources was not deliberating, in order to prepare material for the consideration of the Committee. I wish to attract the attention of the Senate to some of the facilities that are available for senators in Parliament House when they are serving o.n committees. I insist that the House facilities be made available to honourable senators when they are meeting in Canberra so that they may be able properly to carry out their functions. 
It is not the right of any officer or any Department to determine what number of senators shall be present in Canberra before a meal will be served in Parliament House. Yet this was the position that we found when we came to Canberra for committee meetings. We were constantly unable to obtain an evening meal. The consequence of this was that although on many occasions the committee wanted to sit at night, consideration had to be given to the fact that once members of a committee leave Parliament House at night to have a meal elsewhere they do not reassemble. The same situation applies when an honourable senator wants to do some homework with respect to the committee after it has adjourned for the day. If he leaves this place to obtain a meal elsewhere he does not come back. With the growth of the committee system there should be an inquiry into the facilities that are available to honourable senators who serve on committees. We had the position here one night when 23 senators who had been serving on committees were present in Canberra but no evening meal was available for them. 
The honourable senator can have his say later. Unless proper facilities are made available to honourable senators the work of Senate committees will deteriorate. It will be found that the time taken by committees in deliberation will be extended. In any case, if honourable senators come to Canberra the facilities of the House should be made available to them. I emphasise that I do not make any criticism of any of the House staff. The present situation seems to be an arrangement which has grown up and with which officers have to comply, or which by habit or practice is complied with, and with the growth of the committee system there has been no change. I suggest that there should be a change. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 I want to direct some questions to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  about the Bureau of Mineral Resources. I refer to the take-over of Woodside Oil NL and Mid-Eastern. Oil NL by the Burmah. Oil Company group. If my memory serves me rightly the permit areas for 140,000 square miles on the north and north-west coast of the Australian continent were issued to Woodside Oil, MidEastern Oil and the Burmah Oil group. The assets of the 2 Australian companies, Woodside Oil and Mid-Eastern Oil, were the permit areas and the prospect of finding petroleum there. They have found petroleum although at this stage, as far as I know, application has not been made for licences. Application may be made at any time within 2 years. However, these are the assets of the 2 Australian companies. Honourable senators will remember that some time ago I raised the question of the Burmah take-over of Woodside and MidEastern, on the basis of information supplied to me by a director, one  Mr Hughes  Jones. Since that time there has been a 60 per cent acceptance of the Burmah offer by Mid-Eastern and a 70 per cent acceptance by the directors or the shareholders of Woodside. The offer is now unconditional.  Mr Hughes  Jones has now advised all the shareholders in the 2 Australian companies to accept the offer made by Burmah, otherwise they would find themselves with a bundle of worthless scrip. This scrip can become worthless only if the permit areas held by Woodside and Mid-Eastern, either in their own names, separately or jointly, or jointly with Burmah oil, are transferred to the Burmah group. 
This takes in several of the other overseas companies such as Shell and Caltex because of international arrangements. My question,  Mr Minister,  is this: Has the Designated Authority of Western Australia and the Designated Authority of the Northern Territory agreed to a transfer of the permit areas to the Burmah group? Have Woodside and Mid-Eastern, either or both, any interest in the permit areas at the present time? Under clause 11 of the agreement which underpins the petroleum submerged lands legislation it is provided that before the transfer or otherwise of a title - if 1 might use that in the broad term - the Commonwealth must be consulted. Has the Commonwealth been consulted as to the transfer of title from MidEastern and/or Woodside and/or both? Has the Commonwealth Minister notified the Western Australia Designated Authority that consultation is not necessary? Has the Minister for National Development who administers the petroleum submerged lands legislation agreed to a transfer of the Woodside-Mid-Eastern permits or that portion of them which they hold in equity being transferred to the Burmah oil company? 
I wish to refer to division 707, Acquisition of Sites and Buildings, which is under the control of the Department of the Interior. The explanatory, notes say that the sum of $140,000 has been provided for incomplete acquisition brought forward from 1970-71. I do not know what that refers to. The remainder of the provision is mainly for the acquisition of 600 acres at Learmonth in Western Australia - desert - and 600 acres of land at Amberley, $50,000, both of which will require further appropriations in due course. The Simpson Desert can be bought for 25c an acre, but the Government has gone to the desert at Learmonth and paid $460 an acre for it. It has gone to Amberley and paid $83 an acre for the land. I have been told that the reason for the high price of the land at Learmonth is that  Mr George  Kailis  -  I emphasise the name George Kailis - has  a  prawn factory on it, a couple of tin sheds and a freezer. He is the man with whom  Mr Gorton  goes to stay when he goes big game fishing on the north west coast. 
I am not hard; I am truthful about the rackets that go on in this place - $275,000 as a pay-off for a big game fishing holiday. 
Of course it is despicable. I have seen you so despicable that you would not have been fit to spit on. 
I have seen you hit at George Georges. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Prowse)Order! Senator Cant,  you will withdraw that remark. 

 - Senator Buttfield interrupted me. I can take it and I can give it. 
1 do not quarrel with the statement of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  that the bird nuisance had to be removed. I have as much respect for the lives of Australian airmen as he has. He is not unique in having that respect. I have as much respect for the machinery that is purchased with Australian taxpayers' money as he has. I do not quarrel with that statement. What the Minister has said is very interesting. 1 said - there was no need for the Minister to repeat lt - that Kailis Gulf Fishery Pty Ltd established a prawn factory in the area in 1963. I know that. I also know that. Kailis put improvements on that factory in 1965. at the time, as stated by the Minister, that the Department of Air was considering the up-grading of the Learmonth airbase. Kailis spent a large sum on improving the factory. If at that time the Department was considering making Learmonth an operational air base why was Kailis allowed to do this, knowing full well that what he was establishing was in the flight funnel of the air base? This is the first mistake that was made. 
The Minister said that consideration of this matter was suspended in 1966 - although he gave no reason for such suspensions - and that it was not taken up again until 1969 when the matter was reviewed. The Minister said that the Minister at that time was  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, that on 11th November 1969  Mr Malcolm  Fraser was the Minister. But some decision was taken on 1 2th August 1969. when the Minister was  Mr Fairhall.  But we do not know what that decision was. The present Minister said that the land is lease land under the control of the Western Australian Government. In this place today we heard a Minister decline to answer a question because there were exchanges of information on a government to government level between the Prime Minister and the Premier of a State. Is the Minister asking the Committee to believe that there was no liaison between the Department of Defence and the Western Australian Government as to the requirements of the Department of Defence with respect to the Learmonth Air base at that time? I do not believe that governments operate in this way. 
The Minister said that the land that was acquired was valued at $1,479. The amount required for the project was $343,000. The most amazing thing is that Kailis has been paid $335,000. The Parliament has not yet approved the amount of $275,000 that is in the estimates before us. The Parliament is asked to approve the payment of $275,000 for the acquisitions at Learmonth: yet the Minister said that the Government has paid $335,000. It is true that the notes on the estimates say that additional appropriations will be required, but 1 should think that additional appropriations would be made by means of a special Bill, through the Supplementary Estimates which are prepared in about May or by the next Budget. The Parliament has not approved yet of any payment to Kailis for any acquisition. In defiance of the Parliament and without its authority the Government has spent public moneys. A matter which requires much deeper thought is that the Government, arrogant as it is - we know how how arrogant it is - would take the Parliament and particularly the Senate for granted; that an appropriation would be approved and that the Government would pay out not the amount for which it asked- $275,000- but would pay $335,000 to this firm. Is this the way in which the business of the Parliament should be conducted? 
I repeat that the Minister has skirted well round the accusations that I make that $335,000 is an exorbitant price to pay for 3 tin sheds and a couple of tin houses - they are not mansions - and a freezer at Learmonth, despite the value placed on these items by the valuers who visited that place. 
 My friend has suggested that these items could have been put on a jinker and moved. I understand that they were not moved very far - just far enough to take them out of the flight funnel. I can remember when I was a boy on the gold fields that houses were moved with jinkers from one gold mining town to another, and those jinkers were not so modern as the ones that are available today. I would have been happy to have been paid $335,000 to move the whole factory to another site. The Minister has said also that $6,251 was paid for the disconnection of a telephone in the factory which was in the flight funnel and the reinstallation of the telephone in the newly established factory. 
 It has cost more than the coaxial cable to Carnarvon to Learmonth which was paid for by the Australian taxpayers and which was for the use of the naval communications station at North West Cape. That is the only purpose of that coaxial cable. The telephone to which I have referred has been moved about half a mile from where it was previously situated and the cost of moving it was $6,251. 1 suggest to honourable senators that we are in the wrong business. We should not be in Parliament. We should be taking government contracts and being well paid for what we do. In view of the attitude of the Government in taking the Parliament for granted on an appropriation of $275,000, and in view of the fact that the Government has paid out $335,000 without an appropriation being approved by the Parliament and without even asking the Parliament whether it should be approved, I move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to amend the vote by leaving out Division 707 - Acquisition of Sites and Buildings, $S15,000. 
The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  has attempted to make an explanation based on the Government's chaotic cost accounting system. First of all. he said that $27,500 of the money that was paid to Kailis- 
Very well. The Minister said that $275,000 came from the Department of Supply- 
The Minister said $27,500, as I noted it, came from the Supply Bill and the balance from the Advance to the Treasurer. But wherever it came from is neither here nor there. It does not matter because what the Govenment is doing is taking a sum out of one pocket and then asking this Parliament to appropriate that sum to put back in the pocket. The principle is the same. It does not alter just because the money is available and it is used. What will happen if the motion seeking rejection of Division 707 is carried? ft will mean that the purpose for which the money sought under the Supply Bill is required will be $275,000 short. It will not be able to be supplemented. The balance to $335,000 which comes out of the Advance to the Treasurer will not be able to be supplemented. This is the simple way of dealing with it, instead of using the archaic accounting methods of this Government which have been criticised throughout the world and which no one understands. The simple facts - the Minister cannot embellish them in any way - are that the Department has paid out $335,000 without the approval of this Parliament. No matter how the Minister tries to get around it, that is the simple fact. The Government will have paid the money out and will not be able to supplement it. If this is the way in which this Government and its departments want to operate, in future every cent covered by Supply Bills, and every cent covered by the Advance to the Treasurer, will have to be documented so that we will know the expenditure proposed under the Supply Bills and the Advance to the Treasurer. 
Apparently in the Supply Bill the Department has more money than it requires. The Government has asked this Parliament to approve in the Supply Bill more than is required. The Government seeks more than is required in the Advance to the Treasurer. lt will then be able, under its system of accounting, to use the money for other purposes, taking it for granted that this Parliament will supplement the amounts that the Government has spent without the authority of the Parliament. The Parliament did not give authority to the Government to spend moneys in this manner. It advanced money to the Department of Air, the Department of the Navy and various other Service departments, as it was requested to do, for their annual budgets, but the money in question did not come from any of the Service departments. Apparently the Department of Air did not have the money to pay to Kailis and it had to go to the Supply Bill for part of it and then to the Advance to the Treasurer for the balance. I accuse the Government - I make no apologies for doing so - of spending taxpayers money without the authority of the Parliament. This is only a small amount that I have been able to pick up. God knows how many other amounts are in these Estimates, if one were to examine them in detail, that the Government has spent without the authority of Parliament. Therefore, I submit that the Parliament should reject this appropriation in order to reprimand the Government and to ensure that the Government conducts the business of government as it should be conducted. What businessman would stay in business if he adopted an accounting system of this nature? He would not be in business for 5 minutes. Every auditor in the world would reject his accounts. Yet the Government asks this Parliament to agree to an appropriation after it has already spent the money and expects the Parliament to reimburse it. If it has the surplus funds to pay out to its friends in this manner, there is no need for this appropriation. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Prowse)Senator  Cant, that statement is completely disorderly in terms of standing order 418 and I ask you to withdraw it. 
I have not mentioned any friends. I have not named anyone as is mentioned in standing order 418. 
The last part of standing order 418, which is the relevant part, states: 
. and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly.  1 did not mention any members. 
If you insist,  Mr Chairman,  and if you want to protect this Government to that extent, I withdraw. But I say that there have been improper motives in the payment of these moneys without the authority of the Parliament. The Parliament has not approved of the actions taken. Until such time as it does so, the Committee should request the House of Representatives to reject the proposed expenditure. 
 I rise to speak for a few minutes on this Bill. I realise that the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States have been finalised by agreement up until 1974-75. I realise also that there has been a change in the system of taxation and that certain taxation measures have been handed over to the States. Nevertheless, I think I should point out that my own State of Western Australia is suffering considerable financial difficulty. Western Australia is in a state of boom in its outer areas. This boom has required more expensive or higher cost services to be installed. Certain developmental works are required to be performed by the States that they cannot perform without further Commonwealth assistance. Even though a payroll tax provision has been handed to the States by the Commonwealth the moneys which will be gathered from its imposition will be insufficient to allow Western Australia to do the works it is required to do. For that reason, it is not able to progress as rapidly as it should. For several other reasons, there has been a build-up of unemployment in that State. The rate of unemployment should not be growing in a State that is in a condition of so-called boom. 
The State Government has made application to the Commonwealth for $8m of assistance to construct a standard gauge railway from Kalgoorlie to Esperance to serve the nickel fields of Kambalda and Widgiemooltha, but the Commonwealth has found itself in the position of being unable to give this assistance. At the same time, the Commonwealth has refused to continue beyond a certain date the subsidy to the gold mining industry to enable the gold mines to be kept in operation until such time as the development of the nickel mines is able to absorb those people who are at present employed on the gold fields. So there is a two-way costing which can only contribute to employment. Not only does it contribute to employment but it means that workers and their families who have had a lifetime in isolated areas will be required to seek employment in the metropolitan area, thereby creating a demand on ail the community services provided in the metropolitan area - houseing, water supply, sewerage, power, roads and other services, in addition to schooling for their children. 
In addition, the State finds itself in difficulty in continuing the operation of the State shipping service beyond Wyndham to Darwin. This means that the $10m worth of trade that has been built up between Western Australia and the Northern Territory will be transferred to the eastern seaboard. I would not hazard a guess as to how many workers are employed in the production of Si Om worth of trade goods, but whatever the number is those goods will not be produced in Western Australia. That will create further unemployment. Also the Commonwealth Government has agreed that the Commonwealth Railways shall purchase prestressed concrete sleepers manufactured in South Australia instead of jarrah sleepers from Western Australia. I do not know what costing has been done on this. It is an admitted fact that the concrete sleepers will cost  3  to  4  times more than the jarrah sleepers will cost. A jarrah sleeper has life of approximately  30  years whereas a prestressed concrete sleeper is said to have a life of SO years. That does not warrant an increased cost of  3  to  4  times for the concrete sleepers. I do not know whether anyone has ascertained what effect there is on the rolling stock. Prestressed concrete sleepers are dead sleepers and must impose on the rolling stock a greater strain than do live sleepers - the jarrah sleepers. A greater amount of maintenance of rolling stock will be required. My concern at this stage is that the purchase of prestressed concrete sleepers will mean the displacement of  50  or  60  sleeper cutters in Western Australia. Again this will contribute to unemployment. 
During the Ascot by-election campaign the ex-Premier of Western Australia and his  deputy, Mr Charles  Court, travelled the electorate saying that in the State unemployment was increasing because a Labor government was in office. In the Senate only a couple of weeks ago it was said that under a Labor government in Western Australia there was  1.5  per cent unemployment and that under a Liberal government in New South Wales there was only  1  per cent unemployment. Rectification of the unemployment that is being caused in Western Australia is beyond the powers of the Western Australian Government without some assistance from the Commonwealth Government.  1  urge the Commonwealth Government to give serious consideration to the propositions put by the Western Australian Premier in order that the State will be able to maintain ils present position and be able to employ ali its work force. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What progress is being made by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board in the acquisition of new premises in Perth. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that in order to obtain control of certain iron ore reserves in Western Australia, Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd entered into an agreement with the Western Australian Government to construct by 1978 an integrated steel works at Kwinana to produce one million tons of fabricated steel a year? Has BHP recently announced an increase in expenditure on plant at the Newcastle works amounting to $82m? Has BHP announced the possible closure of the steel works at Kwinana at the end of March? In view of the potential closure of the steel works at Kwinana, can the expenditure at Newcastle be justified? 
I ask for leave to make a statement in connection with the Public Works Committee's report on the central hospital services complex. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a copy of the latest gallup poll report? Does it indicate that the percentage in favour of the Australian Labor Party is 9 greater than the percentage in favour of the combined Liberal and Country parties? Has the Leader seen a copy of the McKinsley report, commissioned by the Victorian Liberal Party, which indicates that if an election were held now the coalition would lose heavily? Does this indicate that if an election were held now a Labor government would be returned to office? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the last part of the question is no. I make the comment that 1 have made in the past: Gallup polls or whatever polls they may be blow hot or cold according to the season. There was a famous poll in the United States of America which showed that the only person who thought  Mr Truman  would win the Presidency was  Mr Truman  himself. If honourable senators opposite are getting excited about the prospect of being in office, I suggest that they relax because they are a long way from it. They will not be there in my time or in the time of many other people who sit here. 
 1  wish to draw the attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for National Development, to some questions  1  asked of him on 8th December last concerning the takeover by the Burmah oil company of the Woodside and Mid-Eastern oil exploration companies. I refer the Minister to the report of my remarks at page 2504 of the Senate Hansard, lt reads: 
This takes in several of the other overseas companies such as Shell and Caltex because of international arrangements. My question,  Mr Ministers,  is this: Has the Designated Authority of Western Australia and the Designated Authority of the Northern Territory agreed to a transfer of the permit areas to the Burmah group? Have 
Woodside and Mid-Eastern, either or both, any interest in the permit areas at the present time? Under clause 1 1 of the agreement which underpins the petroleum submerged lands legislation it is provided that before the transfer or  otherwic  of a title - if I might use that in the broad term - the Commonwealth must be consulted. Has the Commonwealth been consulted as to '.he transfer of title from Mid-Eastern and/or Woodside and/or both? Has the Commonwealth Minister notified the Western Australia Designated Authority that consultation is not necessary? Has the Minister for National Development who administers the petroleum submerged lands legislation agreed to a transfer of the WoodsideMid.Eastern permits or that portion of them which they hold in equity being transferred to the Burmah oil company? 
The Minister replied: 
asked a number of questions and my advisers from the Department of National Development have informed me that they cannot at the moment supply the detailed information for which I have been asked. The honourable senator will appreciate that I represent the Minister for National Development in this place. It is not possible to bring along the full team of advisers that one would bring to a Senate Estimates Committee to answer questions. There is no room in the Senate for this to be done. One would not be able to handle the managerial problems that are involved here. Therefore 1 shall also direct the honourable senator's detailed questions from  the  Hansard record to the Minister, who will obtain through his Department the information that is required. 
To date the information is nil. At that stage the takeover of the 2 Australian companies was only in the process. It has now been completed. I want to inform the Senate of the way in which the permits in Western Australia have been divided by international arrangements. Under the Western Australian Petroleum Exploration Act 1936, Woodside, Shell and BOC were granted permits 213 and 232. When the 1967 Act came into force permit 213 became WAP 1, WAP 2S, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35. Permit 232 became WAP 37. The issue of the permits under the 1936 Act did not specify the proportions of the permits that were allocated to each of the member companies but it is assumed that they were held in equal proportions.  1  asked the Bureau of Mineral Resources for this information before Christmas. I was to be rung back but  1  was not. Obviously the Bureau has the information because it pays an oil search subsidy under the oil search subsidy legislation in relation to the Australian equity in the permit in the off-shore areas, but it cannot give the information. However, the permit was presumably on the basis of a one-third interest for each of the 3 companies. 
Under the 1936 Act BOC had regisstered an agreement between BOC and BP that gave each of those companies equal shares in the proportion of the permits held by BOC. This resulted in 33) per cent of the above permits being held by Woodside, 33) per cent by Shell, 16$ per cent by BOC, and 16) per cent by BP. The Shell company had an agreement under the 1936 Act with the CaliforniaAsiatic company to share the proportion of the above permits equally between them. This meant that Shell and California-Asiatic each held 16$ per cent of the permits, but this agreement was not registered under the .1936 Act. Woodside did not have any agreement under the 1936 Act but it seems that since that time an agreement has come into existence whereby Woodside is to share its proportion of the above permits on the basis of Woodside £, or 25 per cent, and Mid-Eastern  i,  or 8) per cent. 
I was able to obtain this information, yet the Minister cannot get any information at all, or at least he cannot pass on any information. I wish to invite the attention of the Minister to section 80 of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. Despite what I said about the agreement underpininng this legislation, section 80 provides: 
A legal or equitable interest in or affecting an existing or future permit, licence, pipeline licence, or access authority is noi capable of being created, assigned, affected or dealt with, whether directly or indirectly, except by an instrument in writing.  1 pose the same questions to the Minister again. Has the Designated Authority of Western Australia, with the concurrence of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  agreed to a change in the equity of the permits that are issued in Western Australia? Has the Designated Authority for the Northern Territory, with the concurrence of the Minister for National Development, agreed to such a change? If the Minister for National Development has advised either of them that consultation is not necessary the onus for the change in the equity of the permits rests with the Designated Authority, and the Minister for National Development is relieved of responsibility. Nevertheless, it will be interesting to have a look at the next payments of subsidy in the off-shore areas. I will be looking at the matter very closely because the information that I have been able to get in relation to payments of subsidy up to date is still based on the old holdings of the permits. 
The equity holding in the permit is the only equity that the shareholders in Woodside and Mid-Eastern Oil have. If petroleum is found in the permit area they will have an enhanced value. This will push the price of the shares up. But when shares are bought in the company the equity is the permit area. As  Mr Jones  has pointed out, if these people finish up with useless scrip because of a takeover by BOC it can be only with the concurrence of the Designated Authority of Western Australia and the Northern Territory and with the concurrence of the Minister for National Development in this Parliament. I ask the simple question: Has the Minister complied with section 80 of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act? It this confidential information which cannot be given out? Surely the stock exchanges must know who are the responsible people with respect to these permit areas when the stock is listed. Woodside is no longer listed and Mid-Eastern is no longer listed but a new company Woodside-Burmah is listed. I ask the Minister to say when he can expedite to me the information that I asked for on 8th December last. 
 I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I ask for leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question, addressed to the Attorney-General, arises out of an answer that he just gave in which he referred to the Australian Labor Party being able to assist in the regulation of the National Service Act. Did the Minister pay  a  visit to Western Australia last week7 
During the course of that visit did he address a meeting at the University of Western Australia? During the course of that address did a number of young people stand up and indicate that they were not conforming with the National Service Act? Did 2 of those young people give their full names and addresses to the Attorney-General? If so, what action has he taken to enforce the Act? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that he visited Rhodesia during 1970-71 and talked with officers of a government described on many occasions by  Sir Robert  Menzies as illegal? Does the Minister consider that his visit to Rhodesia as guest of the governmentbacked Rhodesian Promotion Council would embarrass him in providing the Australian Government with advice on the status of the Rhodesian Information Centre in Australia? 
J direct a question to you,  Mr President.  What procedures do you adopt when calling persons to speak on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate? At what time were you informed that  Senator Murphy  wished to speak on thai motion last night? At what time were you informed that  Senator Webster  wanted to speak on that motion last night? I advise you that at 4.30 p.m. yesterday I gave notice to the  Deputy President  that I wished to speak on that motion. Is the system of bureaucracy which operates in relation to the calling of senators to ask questions without notice operating also in relation to the calling of persons to speak on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate? 
 I rise to attract the attention of the Senate to what I thought was a most disgraceful performance by a Minister of the Crown in Western Australia last week.  Senator Greenwood,  who holds the high office of Attorney-General in the Commonwealth Parliament, visited Western Australia and went on television to complain about a young national serviceman who had committed an offence against the National Service Act, who had been gaoled and whom the Western Australian Government, treating him the same as any other prisoner in Fremantle Gaol, allowed out on study leave for one day per week. I suspect that the activities of the AttorneyGeneral were initiated and contributed to by  Senator Durack  as a result of a question asked in this place a few days before in order to allow the Attorney-General to make some political capital from this matter. The Minister sought to make political capital, but I can assure him that he gained no mileage in Western Australia from the way that this matter was handled. After the Attorney-General's performance 1 spoke to many people in Western Australia and found that they were completely disgusted with the attitude adopted by the Miniser. 
The Attorney-General said that the activities of the gaol officers in allowing Gary Cook to have one day's study leave each week was not in accordance with the law. I suggest that, in saying that, the AttorneyGeneral was referring to the written law. But there are other laws. The first law that  Senator Greenwood  transgressed was the law of decency. As a result of the question asked by  Senator Durack, Senator Greenwood  communicated by letter with the Chief Secretary in Western Australia, Honourable Claude Stubbs, M.L.C., but he did not have the common decency to wait for the Minister to reply to him before appearing on television. He went to Western Australia determined to make an exposition of this case. Not only did he not wait for the reply from the Minister in charge of prisons in Western Australia but also he did not even advise the Minister that he would be raising this question on television on the programme 'Today Tonight'. Those 2 points prove that there was no integrity in the Attorney-General's action in raising this matter. 
Quite rightly  Mr Stubbs,  in a Press statement, said that  Senator Greenwood  was raising the issue to draw attention away from Federal Liberal problems in an election year. There is no doubt that this was so. Not only was  Senator Greenwood  tryingto draw attention away from the problems of the Liberal Party, which I suppose is part of politics, but at the same time he was trying to implicate the Western Australian Labor Government in something that he said it should not be doing. He was trying to denigrate the Western Australian Labor Government. He did this for political purposes and for political purposes alone. In acting as he did he had no mora) purpose, no purpose of decency and no purpose of compassion. In the interview with  Senator Greenwood  on 6th April  Mr Graham  asked this question: 
You are doubting the professional integrity of the prison officers who do this job or are you suggesting  that  there has been pressure by the Labor Government? 

 Senator Greenwood replied: 1  have no reason to believe that in any way the integrity of prison officers ought to be questioned. 
The question raised 2 problems: Whether the prison officers' integrity should be questioned and whether the Labor Government in Western Australia was exerting pressure. The pressure referred to could only have been on the prison officers to release Gary Cook for study leave. Having eliminated that part of the question relating to prison officers, the AttorneyGeneral's answer to the question continued: 
I do believe that there has been some political direction in this matter but I have written to  Mr Stubbs. 
Those honourable senators who are present will realise that this was a deliberate attack upon the Labor Government of Western Australia, and that it was designed to be such. An unfortunate young man who had objections to the National Service Act was used as the vehicle for  Senator Greenwood  to vent his spleen against Labor. He did it, I believe, in full consciousness of what he was doing. I believe that he had a full appreciation of what would happen, or what he thought would happen. But my conversations with people in Western Australia lead me to believe that it backfired on him. As always happens when one commits acts of indecency, it backfired on him. So the Minister did not get any political mileage out of that point. 
He was pressed for proof of his answer to that question by the interviewer.  Mr Graham  asked: 
Yon believe this but do you have any categorical proof that the Labor Government has been exerting pressure in- 
He was not allowed to finish the question.  Senator Greenwood  said: 
It depends what you mean by proof.I have said that the Regulations do not permit leave of absence for study purposes. I also said that on my information the Classification Committee has not met, therefore, how was  Mr Cook  allowed- 

 Mr Graham asked: 
Yes, but when I say proof - proof which would normally be accepted, shall we say, in Parliament, or in a court. 
This is talk about proof in a parliament!  Senator Greenwood  said: 
Well that again is so much a matter of opinion. I have indicated the basis on which  1  made my comment and I think that you can appreciate that there is a basis to it. 
This is the sort of proof that  Senator Greenwood  brings before the public. He was not in here playing politics; he was on a public forum where people expect some integrity. The integrity was not there. 

 Senator Greenwood was questioned about Cook being treated differently from other prisoners. The question asked by  Mr Graham  was: 
But the evidence that we have at the moment is that he is being treated in exactly the same way as any other prisoner. 
The transcript of the interview continues: 
GREENWOOD: I don't know what evidence you have. I have examined the Prisons Regulations under which leave of absence is given to prisoners. It is not permissible under that regulation to give leave of absence for the purpose of attending the university. I also understand that there is a procedure in Western Australia under which a committee, I think it is a classifications committee- 
GRAHAM: That is correct. 
GREENWOOD: . . . examines the cases of people who ought to be given leave of absence and I believe in (he case of  Mr Cook  that Classifications Committee made no recommendation. It didn't even consider him. 
Now the question whether the Prisons Act and the regulations under that Act do permit the release of a prisoner for study duty arises here- 
I hope to in a moment, but I will do so in my own time, not in yours. The Minister is a trained legal man and, I understand, quite a capable legal officer. He says that he has examined the regulations. I do not know whether he looked at the Act, but he claimed to have examined the regulations. I refer to an amendment to the Prisons Act, No. 74 of 1969. Part VIC 'Leave of Absence to Certain Prisoners' provides: 64R. With the approval of the Minister- 
And I emphasise the words 'approval of the Minister'- 
.the Comptroller General may grant leave of absence for a prescribed purpose and on prescribed conditions to a prisoner of a prescribed class . . . 
I do not wish to read all of that provision. In the main, it refers to the periods of leave, leave granted to perform work and the rates of pay and awards that apply to the work that is performed. But sub-section (2) of section 64r  -  this is where the particulars are laid down - states: 
In particular, but without limiting the generality of subsection (1)- which I have quoted - 
. of this section, the regulations may make provisions for any of the following matters - 
So, we have the provision in section 64r that the Minister may grant leave for a prescribed purpose on prescribed conditions to a prescribed class of prisoner. I think that it is necessary to know what has been prescribed. The authorities in Western Australia advise me that, under the Liberal Party-Country Party Government in Western Australia, the terms and conditions for the release of prisoners were very restricted and that the then Minister for Justice would not agree to any liberalisation of them. But on 4th March 1971 there was an amendment to the Prisons Regulations. 
Part 6 of the Regulations is headed 'Leave of Absence to Certain Prisoners'. In the regulations a prisoner is a prisoner of any sort. Prisoners are not described in different ways. A Commonwealth prisoner in a place of correction in Western Australia is treated no differently, advantageously or disadvantageous^, from any other prisoner. He is a prisoner within the regulations. Regulation No. 280 relating to Part 6 of the Regulations sets out the purposes for which leave may be granted. Among these purposes - and I want the Minister to take particular notice of this provision - is this: 
A prisoner may be granted leave for his welfare or the welfare of the family unit. 
Will the Minister or any other legal man in this place argue that the words 'for his welfare' would not include study leave, or would not include the release of a prisoner to complete his studies or to continue his studies at a university? If they will, they do not understand the common meaning of words. That is what the regulation says but the Minister has the audacity to say that the law does not permit release of the prisoner. In the first place the Minister cannot even do the decent thing. He cannot even notify the State Minister that he proposes to raise the question in a television interview. He does not even do the decent thing and wait for the State Minister to reply to the correspondence. It was only a few days after the Attorney-General had written to the Chief Secretary in Western Australia. 
In the second place, the Attorney-General cannot even read the law correctly. To satisfy his own purposes he tried to make a political debate when he had the floor in a television interview and to misinform the West Australian people. I do not know whether the interview was shown in eastern Australia. If it was, it gained greater coverage and misled a lot more people than only the Western Australians. But the matter does not end there, because the Act provides that with the Minister's approval leave may be granted. No matter what committees are set up, no matter what procedures are followed, it is the Minister who gives the final approval for release. Any committee set up in Western Australia such as the Classifications Committee is no better than any select committee or other committee of this Parliament. It can only make recommendations. In that situation it is for the Minister to grant or to refuse approval when a recommendation is placed before him. 
I have gone a little out of my way. I will return to the regulation in case the Attorney-General has a different interpretation of the words 'for his welfare'. In order for the West Australian authorities to be perfectly sure of what they were doing they sought the advice of the Crown Law Department in Western Australia as lo whether they would be acting correctly under those words in allowing Cook to go to the University. Whilst the Crown Law Department did advise the Prisons Department that the regulation was a little sloppy, it said that its intention was clear and that the release of Cook for study purposes would be within the intention of the regulation. The Comptroller-General of Prisons is reported in the 'West Australian' of 7th April as saying in regard to the release of Gary Cook: 

 Senator Greenwood also claimed on Wednesday that draft resister Gary Cook who is serving a prison term for defying the National Service Act had been given leave of absence to study at WA University as a result of a political direction. 
He said he made this claim because there had been a departure from the established ways by which prisoners were granted leave of absence. 
I ask honourable senators to note the words 'there had been a departure from the established ways'. He did not say that there was a departure from the law on this occasion. He said that there was a departure from the established ways. I take it that the Minister at that stage was referring to the Classifications Committee. He did not say at that stage that it was unlawful lc release Gary Cook. He said that it was a departure from the established ways. 
I told you where I got it from. 
I gave the date of the newspaper. 
Seantor  Cant - I do not mind being placed in the witness box because, the honourable senator only displays his ignorance. 
 I do not propose to argue with  Senator Rae.  My information comes from the authorities in Western Australia on the advice of the Crown Law Department. That advice is that the regulation does provide for leave of absence for study purposes. 
I direct a question without notice to the Attorney-General. Has the Minister seen a statement attributed to him and published in the West Australian' yesterday? Is the Minister correctly reported in that statement? In the statement did the Minister say that he had evidence which he would present to the Federal Parliament that Western Australian police had been instructed to go easy with draft resisters? When did the Minister receive such evidence and when does he propose to present it to the Parliament? 
 Senator Cavanagh,  I request that you withdraw the remark. 
 Is the Attorney-General aware that the Commissioner of Police of Western Australia,  Mr A.  VVedd, has written a letter to the Acting Commissioner of Commonwealth Police in Canberra? Does the letter include all the instructions issued to Western Australian police regarding Commonwealth warrants? As the letter has been tabled in the Parliament of Western Australia, will the Minister table in the Senate that letter received by his Acting Commissioner? If the Minister has not seen the letter, will he obtain it with the object of tabling it in the Senate? 
 Mr President,  I am not opposed particularly in any way to the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  but I have some doubts about the amendments moved by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman).  1 ask myself: What price does the back bench senator pay in order to get business matters before the Senate for discussion? The first thing I note is that if the second paragraph of the Minister's amendments is adopted no senator shall speak for more than 30 minutes on a report unless otherwise ordered. Mention has been made of speeches by the Leader of the Opposition and of a Minister replying on behalf of the Government but in fact reports are presented by the  chairman  of the committee. Under existing circumstances the  chairman  is always a Government supporter, not a Minister. 
There are no Ministers on Senate committees, f do not know why Ministers always should have this privilege. There are 60 senators in this place and all are entitled to equal rights. It is the back bench senators who do the hard slogging work entailed in producing reports, not the Ministers. 1 abhor this privileged position that some people want to introduce into al! these things.  Senator Murphy  is a member of a very important committee at the present time but in the main the Leader of the Opposition, because of his responsibilities in other fields does not sit on such committees. 
This idea astounds me, particularly when I consider the history of what happens on Thursday nights. That is general business night - the night on which there is opportunity for back benchers to bring general business on for discussion. Back benchers pay a price to get discussion on a report that they have slogged over. Those honourable senators who have not been on committees in recent times perhaps do not realise the amount of work involved in conducting an inquiry and presenting a report. 
The Minister referred to objection not being taken to the incorporation of second reading speeches in Hansard. In general terms I would not oppose such a proposition. However, if I am required to give an undertaking that any second reading speech may be incorporated I simply say that this should apply only to second reading speeches on Bills which do not originate in the Senate. I have been in this Senate only for a little while - not for a very long time - but I am not so naive as to believe that politics are not played here. When the Government wants to make political capital out of a second reading speech it will not seek to incorporate it. It will be made and, in particular, it will be made on a Wednesday when the message can be broadcast. 
We are not children,  Mr President.  I think all of us would do that. However I am speaking at the moment - I hope I will not be speaking from this position for very much longer - from the position of a member of the Opposition. Perhaps other honourable senators have not thought of this but I realise that this is an election year. 1 realise that speeches will be made deliberately for propaganda purposes. I think a give-away Budget will be presented in August and that the utmost advantage will be taken to publicise that Budget in order to prepare the people for a possible election in November. This is the only undertaking I can give: I would not disagree with second reading speeches being incorporated in Hansard provided all except those on Bills originating in the Senate are incorporated. 1 can give no undertaking apart from that. 
Even then I am in an awkward situation. If I may be so rude as to say this, the back bench senator is a member of the mushroom club. He knows little about what is going on or about what business is coming forward. He is not able to consult his colleagues on the attitude that will be taken. He may think that a certain speech or a certain ministerial statement should not be incorporated in Hansard. He has the power to say no. But the matter does not end there because by the use of the simple device of the suspension of Standing Orders he can be left alone on the Opposition side and the speech will be incorporated. This is another part of the price that honourable senators will pay in order to have a report debated in this place. 
I realise that the Government has a responsibility to get ils business through this chamber and that therefore it must have certain protections. However, after having said all this, if honourable senators agree to give these advantages to the' Government the Government still will insist on having a provision saying that Government business shall take precedence over other business on Thursdays. 
The honourable senator knows that the Government has the numbers lo do what it wants. Let us face it; it is the science of numbers that destroys democracy. Let us face up to what goes on. What is the Government giving when it says that these reports can be debated? I say to honourable senators that I can debate for an hour and a half any report that I choose at any time there is before this chamber a money Bill. I cannot be stopped from doing so unless the Standing Orders are suspended, and of course that can be done. So what are we giving away in agreeing to a time limit of 30 minutes when we can take an hour and a half? What are we giving away when we agree to the incorporation of documents in Hansard? We of the Opposition have certain rights in this place. I do not know whether all of them will be taken away from us, but avenues are open in which things can be done despite what the Government proposes by way of motion. Even if the motion currently before the Senate is carried I would not feel bound not to debate a report at the first reading stage of a money Bill. 
In reply to  Senator Georges  the Minister said that second reading speeches and ministerial statements can be incorporated in Hansard but only on Thursdays.  Senator Georges  pointed out that these things are read when the Senate proceedings are being broadcast on Wednesdays. The minister agreed that second reading speeches and ministerial statements are to be incorporated in Hansard only on Thursdays. So the inference is that this course is being followed because of the political capital that can be made out of it. We of the Opposition do not have this opportunity. I have watched honourable senators opposite, and also my colleagues, making political capital on Wednesdays when the proceedings are on the air. I have tried to do it myself by making speeches when we are on the air. 
I would hope that it was not without some result. But what 1 have indicated is as far as I want to go in giving any undertaking in relation to ministerial statements being incorporated. I would have been very hostile yesterday if  Mr McMahon's  statement on allowances had not been read in the Senate but had been incorporated in the record. So there are certain ministerial statements which honourable senators on the Government side, and, perhaps more so, honourable senators on the Opposition side, would like to have read out. I think that if the Minister is asking for undertakings he should be prepared to give some sort of undertaking on behalf of the Government - I realise it could be only a loose undertaking but though loose it must have integrity behind it - that if an honourable senator did object for other than mischievous reasons to a statement or a second reading speech being incorporated the minister would not move for the suspension of standing orders. I think that the Democratic Labor Party and the Australian Labor Party have co-operated with the Government in order to make this place work, and it will not work unless there is this co-operation. But I say to the Minister that he should consider again whether he could give an undertaking to the Opposition that in the event, of an honourable senator wanting a ministerial statement or a second reading speech read, for other than mischievous reasons, standing orders will not be suspended. With those reservations I express my opinion of the motion that has been moved. 
J do not mind being on my own. As a matter of fact, I have been on my own pretty well all my life. That does not worry me. That is all I have to say on that matter. I think that the Minister for Air. who is at the table, should take note of what has been said by the honourable senators who have spoken in this debate. I commend  Senator Withers  for his remarks. However, I think that perhaps the Minister might consider whether discussion of this motion should not be proceeded with at this time so that the Government can have a look at what has been said. I notice  Senator Murphy  shakes his head. That is not surprising. However, I am expressing my opinion as to what I think should be done and, this being a discussion on general business, perhaps I am not as tightly bound by loyalty to my leader as I might be on other occasions. I think thai the Government should have another look at this matter. If the Minister has taken notes properly, which I have no doubt he is capable of doing, f think that he should examine the matters which have been put forward by honourable senators and see to what extent he can meet the suggestions that have been made. 1 do not think anyone has been obstructive, but I think that if the suggestions which have been put forward in this place are met the debating of reports of committees will run more smoothly. 
 Generally, when  Senator Webster  speaks in this place his words contain some value, but I am afraid that today he has rather disappointed us all. He did not understand the subject about which he was talking. He did not understand the processes that have taken place over the years with respect to it. I want to leave that for a moment, but I will come back to it. I want to look at the matter of urgency that has been raised by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. It commences by placing chains on governments in respect of takeovers - not foreign investment. It deals with takeovers, amalgamations, mergers - call them what you will. The belief seems to be that 7 governments will be able to agree on uniform legislation. They cannot even agree on the time of day. They do not know what daylight saving is from one State to another. How can they be expected to agree on a matter of this nature? 
If the terms of the matter of urgency are agreed to - I suspect that they will be - it will take 3 or 4 years for Government inquiries and negotiations between governments before any legislation comes forward. This is one thing that is wrong  with  the suggestions contained in the matter of urgency. The Australian Democratic Labor Party thought that it was putting the Government on the spot in this matter  when  it said that such takeovers were not to take place until after the Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control has brought down its report. I, along with  Senator Withers,  do not know when that report may be issued. The matter of urgency goes on to state: 
. until the Government has announced  the  terms on which and the conditions under which equity in Australian public companies may  be  acquired by non-Australian interests. 
This is a complete climb-down. The members of the DLP know that a White Paper on this subject will be presented before the Parliament rises. That will - I do not say that it will lay down guidelines - discuss the Government's attitude or, at least, the Treasury's attitude to foreign investment. As soon as that happens the DLP will be off the hook. But, in the meantime, it has all the publicity. 
Isn't it a shame? After all, this is nothing more than a whitewash. The members of the DLP have come into the Senate day after day complaining about amalgamations and mergers of trade unions to create better organisations within the trade union movement. Finding that this policy is not popular with the community, they now turn to this matter to try to say that they are consistent. It is only a whitewash for their activities against the trade union movement. They are doing nothing more and nothing less than whitewashing themselves. I take with a grain of salt the idea that there is anything genuine in the proposition put forward by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
In 1963 a report on overseas investment in Australia commissioned by the Government was presented. 1 venture to say that very few members in either House of the Parliament have read that report. It was found at that stage that 25 per cent of Australian industry was owned overseas and 40 per cent of Australian industry was controlled from overseas. Nothing was done.  Sir Robert  Menzeies laid down some loose guidelines that did not mean anything. In 1965 the Vernon Committee, again commissioned by the Government, brought down a report on overseas investment, mergers, takeovers and amalgamations. The members of that Committee were brushed aside as being a team of technocrats, and nothing followed from that Committee's report. In 1969, John Gorton, as Prime Minister of Australia, laid down a set of guidelines in relation to mergers and takeovers and what he would like to see happen. Nothing happened. Industry generally just went on its merry way. If J remember correctly, in March 1966  Mr Holt  brought down some guidelines on overseas investment. This is the loose way in which the Government has tried to operate its policy with respect to overseas investment. 

 Senator Webster also said that there should be no interference with private enterprise. Let him go back to Victoria and tell  Sir Henry  Bolte that there should be no interference with private enterprise and see what sort of an answer he will be given. When the takeover bid was being made by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd for Ansett Transport Industries Ltd the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said that the Commonwealth Government would not interfere. It would have allowed it to go on. But it did not suit  Sir Henry  Bolte for that takeover bid to go on. So he took action to save ATI from being swallowed up by the other giant, TNT. I do not recommend anything with respect to ATI or TNT. I do not believe that ATI has been the nice, clean, white baby it has been said to be over the years. I ask honourable senators to look at what happened to Butler Airways in New South Wales, MacRobertson-Miller Airline Services and Guinea Airways. The man who took over those companies flies to the Government for protection when a bigger bird wants to pick him up. I have no brief for any of these people.  Senator Webster  needs to be fully conversant with these important subjects when he talks about them in the Senate. We are not dealing with dairy farms and the socialist milk board in Victoria to which he has access which guarantees that his farm will be profitable. Mention has been made of socialism. If the honourable senator dislikes socialism so much he should get out of the socialist enterprise in which he is making his living.  Senator Webster  also says that over the past 10 years overseas investment in Australia has represented on average, about 11 per cent of the total investment in Australia. Some economists would disagree with him. I think the figure most of them would come down on the side of is about 16 per cent. But it is not correct to compare 16 per cent and 100 per cent. The correct comparison to be made in determining where the investment is involves the fact that out of 84 per cent of investment in Australia, 35 per cent is in housing. Do the overseas investors want to put money into housing here? Of course not. They want to invest in multi-storey buildings in the main streets of every city in Australia but not in housing. Therefore it is important to examine where the money goes to, not simply how much of the resources of this country is being farmed out overseas. 

 Senator Greenwood referred to the mining industry in the north of Western Australia and asked whether it would have been developed without overseas investment. 1 do not think it would have been developed without overseas investments, but I am very mindful of the fact that when the Commonwealth Government on behalf of the Administration of Papua New Guinea allowed Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd to develop the Bougainville copper industry, it insisted that 20 per cent of the shareholding be made available to the Administration at par. 
This is the sort of action that should have been taken with respect to development works on the mainland of Australia. I am not married to a requirement of 20 per cent, 50 per cent or any other percentage, but some percentage should have been reserved for the Australian people. There is a possibility that some of these industries can be developed from within Australia. The Kambalda nickel mines cost about $1 70m to develop, and it was achieved by Australian interests - Western Mining Corporation Ltd. There is no overseas money in that enterprise. The money is available if the people concerned will go out and get it, but they are too anxious to sell the resources of this country to the highest overseas bidder. 
I heard some talk about the Canadian position. Of course, it was quite different from the Australian position inasmuch as overseas investment in Australia comes mainly from 2 countries, Great Britain and the United States of America. Canada was faced with the might of the American giant right on its border. It was a different position there. Nevertheless, the Canadian Government has some down with a guideline. A committee has been set up to see what will happen. I suggest to the Government that it is quite easy for something to be done. The details can be worked out. A suitable policy could include a provision that a legal or equitable interest in or affecting Australian commerce, industry, resources or land is not capable of being created, assigned, effected, or dealt with whether directly or indirectly except with the authority of the Treasurer. The Treasurer can set up a committee to examine mergers and takeovers and can examine the purposes of overseas investment. Such an expert body would be working in the national interest to see that our policy was properly carried out. The Australian people would know whether overseas investment was being made for their benefit. 
If that requirement is thought to be too restrictive, I remind honourable senators of the Canadian requirement concerning a $250,000 or $3m turnover within a company. Such restrictions can be imposed so that there is no interference with minor operations. Honourable senators opposite may raise difficulties but it is a datum peg to start from for a committee examining overseas investment. If the DLP had put forward such a suggestion it would have been acting constructively, instead of putting forward a motion with the intention of whitewashing itself in the eyes of the people - something to get the DLP off the hook with the working people of Australia whom they constantly oppose. 

 Senator JESSOP (South Australia) (5.39) - I always listen with interest to  Senator Cant  of the Opposition when he speaks on matters relating to foreign investment. I noticed tonight that he displays a certain amount of irritation towards the Australian Democratic Labor Party. He suggested that the DLP senators were trying to whitewash themselves because of their views on the amalgamation of certain trade unions. I think  Senator Cant  implied that they were trying to steal the limelight. I suggest that perhaps the superior political strategy has irritated the Labor Party as some of its members may believe that the Australian Labor Party should have put forward such a motion. 
I invite honourable senators to look back to 10th November 1971 when the DLP introduced a similar subject to the Senate. On that occasion I paid tribute to the Democratic Labor Party for bringing the matter before the Senate at that time. I believe that DLP senators should derive some satisfaction from the fact that the Senate unanimously agreed to set up a select committee to examine foreign ownership in depth, under the capable chairmanship of  Senator Withers.  He has under him a very competent Committee that will look into this matter in great depth. It will take some time to do so. 
I think all honourable senators will agree that we must show concern at the increasing interest in foreign capital in this country. We must study the areas in which foreign investors are becoming increasingly active to find out whether they are keeping Australian capital out. Going not too far back into our history it is clear that there are areas of Australia which could not have been developed purely and simply by Australian capital. The last time I spoke on this matter I referred to the Gove alumina project. When I visited Gove in 1968 I learned that the Australian Government had requested that 50 per cent of the capital in the project should be raised in Australia. I returned there last year and discovered that it was impossible to raise that amount of Australian capital. It was necessary to seek Swiss capital in order to make the project work. The enterprise has guaranteed work for several hundred people. 
I turn to other areas in Australia where a similar situation has arisen. For instance, the Mount Newman venture took a long time to interest Australian capital. A similar position obtained at Robe River and at the Amex project in the Admiralty Gulf. Those projects could not have proceeded without an infusion of overseas capital. 
I remind  Senator Negus  that there is one area of probate duty that perhaps he should explore. That is the amount of Australian wealth that is owned overseas and upon which probate is never paid. It is an enormous amount of wealth. Probate on it could return to the coffers of Australian governments quite a sum of money which would be able to assist in- the provision of relief to the dependants of those in the lower income bracket at the time of death. 
I rise to discuss the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources. This report was presented to the Senate on 10th December last. Certain assurances were given that time for a debate on it would be made available. After this week, 2 sitting weeks of this session of the Parliament remain. It does not seem to me that, in the last 2 weeks of this parliamentary session, time will be given for a debate on this report. 
The Committee was set up in 1968. It was charged with the duty of inquiring into and reporting upon the legislation relating to off-shore petroleum resources which had been passed in November 1967 by both Houses of the Parliament. The first problem that the Committee ran up against appears in the Preamble to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act which, in paragraph 4, states: 
AND WHEREAS the Governments of the Commonwealth and of the States have decided, in the national interest - 
I draw particular attention to the words 'in the national interest' -  that, without raising questions concerning, and without derogating from, their respective constitutional powers, they should co-operate for the purpose of ensuring the legal effectiveness of authorities to explore for or to exploit the petroleum resources of those submerged lands: 
It has been amply borne out, in my opinion, that the adoption of that principle in the Preamble was not in the national interest and that the sooner some action is taken to clarify the position with respect to the off-shore areas of Australia the sooner Australia will be in a respectable position in the international legal field. Once the Commonwealth and the States agreed to include in the Preamble that paragraph to set aside but not to derogate from the powers of either the Commonwealth or the States in this off-shore area, they created a shambles. 
First of all, they created an impossible position for a draftsman seeking to draft legislation that would fit into this extraordinary position of one group of governments with almost absolute powers and another government governed by a written constitution. Once that principle was adopted, the draftsman was in an almost impossible position in drafting legislation that would regulate this industry. 
The interim report of the Committee is included in its final report. In that interim report, the Committee came to this conclusion: 
That, notwithstanding the advantages to the national interest - 
I do not see very many advantages -   . . which the legislation and its underlying conception has produced, the larger national interest is not served by leaving unresolved and uncertain the extent of State and Commonwealth authority in the territorial sea-bed and the Continental Shelf. 
I do not think that stronger words than those could have been used by a committee making recommendations to the Government on its legislation. I think that it enhances the proposition that, at the earliest possible opportunity, the Government should give this Parliament an opportunity to debate the territorial sea and continental shelf legislation to clear up once and for all this question of who has jurisdiction in this area. 
I hope that at the earliest opportunity the Prime Minister will bring on that legislation for debate. Of course it does not in fact set up for the Government machinery for the regulation of off-shore areas. In my opinion section 9 is the most important section in the legislation. First of all I want to attract attention to sub-section (1) of section 9 which states: 
Subject to this Act, the provisions of :he laws in force in a State, whether written or unwritten, and as in force from time to time, and the provisions of any instrument made under any of those laws, apply in the adjacent area. 
It is not in dispute that under certain circumstances the Commonwealth Government can pick up State laws and apply them in areas where the Commonwealth has jurisdiction. But the question of whether the Commonwealth has jurisdiction over the continental shelf is still very much clouded. The fact is that we work under an international convention known as the 'Convention on the Continental Shelf. Whether the Commonwealth has power to pass laws because it is a party . to an international convention and the exercise of its external affairs power is something which the High Court has not yet decided. Until the High Court gives a judgment there is no surety as to the extent of the external affairs power. Of  course it is abundantly clear that the States are unable to legislate extra territorially unless a nexus can be established between the States and the object to be regulated. This is borne out by the South Australian crayfish pots case. 
Recently in Western Australia there was a case where a man by the name of Robinson was charged with stealing something from a shipwreck on a reef 12 miles off shore. First of all he was charged under the criminal code of Western Australia. The criminal code of Western Australia sets out to apply to the State of Western Australia. In the preliminary hearing the representative of the Crown Law Department in Western Australia argued that certain waters around Western Australia were part of Western Australia. But when it came to the argument before the  Supreme  Court that argument was not persisted with. Nevertheless the Chief Justice of Western Australia found that Trial Rocks was 12 miles from the nearest land mass of Western Australia and therefore the criminal code did not apply. That does not end the consideration of whether the Commonwealth has jurisdiction in this area within its external affairs power because it can pick up the Western Australian criminal code and apply it in the area. Until the Government resolves this constitutional question the position is uncertain. It must be uncertain in the minds of operators in these areas because some of them have expressed the opinion that they would like to know just what laws do apply to them in this area. Honourable senators will find mention of this matter in the Committee's report. The position is that we do not know what laws apply. The situation becomes very important when we start to talk about industrial laws which apply in these areas. We have an instance following an opinion by Chief Justice  Sir Garfield  Barwick and  Mr Justice  Windeyer in what is known as the La Macchia case that the State jurisdiction finished at the low water mark. 
 It was low water mark. 
Yes. A dispute occurred off the shores of Victoria on a pipe laying barge. The dispute was referred to a Conciliation Commissioner for settlement. As the powers of Commonwealth Parliament with respect to industrial relations are limited to a dispute extending beyond the boundaries of a State the Conciliation Commissioner could not find the existence of a dispute within these terms and therefore he was unable to settle the dispute which had been referred to him. The dispute occurred off shore. It did not extend on shore. It did not extend into the adjacent area of New South Wales, Tasmania or South Australia and so make it possible to argue that that was interstate. I do not think that such an argument could have been substantiated but nevertheless it did not go that far. We had an impasse. A dispute existed and there was no industrial machinery to settle it. This is the kind of situation that arises if the constitutional position is not resolved. I urge the Commonwealth Government to settle the constitutional position as early as possible. We will not only gain respect in this country but also we will gain respect internationally. At present we are in disputation with Indonesia and Timor over a boundary line of the continential shelf. There was a similar dispute between Norway and Great Britain concerning a deep channel close to the shores of Norway. It was resolved that that was only a trough and that the continental shelf continued over the trough. That may be the settlement to be reached between Australia, Indonesia and Timor. I do not know. But there is international disputation. Surely that should be settled at the earliest possible time. 
Nothing has been gained by setting aside the constitutional authorities of either the States or the Commonwealth. This situation has been avoided for very many years. Some years ago there was a case in Western Australia in which the State Government was defeated with respect to authority to legislate extra-territorially. The State wanted to appeal to the High Court of Australia. Pressure was brought by the other States not to proceed because they did not want this position exposed. The appeal was never gone on with. Everyone has directed their attention away from this particular field. It is time someone had some courage. Even if it is found that the Commonwealth does not have any authority in this area, it is better that we know it. It is better that the States know the ambit of their jurisdiction than to be in the clouds as they are at the present time. An agreement underpins this legislation. Section 6 of the agreement provides that amendments to the legislation shall not be made unless the 7 Governments of Australia agree to the amendment of the legislation. Section 7 of the agreement also provides the same conditions with respect to regulations. 
In March 1969 at Hobart the committee of Attorneys-General agreed to amend section 9 of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act in order, in their opinion, to do away with some of the anomalies which are created by the present sections 9 and 
I do not believe that the new amendment will cure all the ills because the Commonwealth cannot legislate beyond its constitutional powers. Whatever is put in the legislation will either be invalid or it will have to be read down within the constitution. Nevertheless, it is an improvement on the present legislation. 
I remind the Senate that this agreement was reached in March 1969 in Hobart and 2 States have since amended their legislation. The Commonwealth has not seen fit to amend its legislation. The State of Victoria has not amended its legislation although until recently, with the exception of the northwest shelf, all the activity had been taking place in Bass Strait. The agree-, ment that underpins the legislation sets out that the legislation may not be amended without the agreement of the 7 governments, but although the 7 governments have agreed to the amendment, 4 States have so far declined to implement the decisions taken at Hobart in 1969. Why have they not done so? I will be frank with the Senate. I know there was delay while the Committee was considering its final report. It meant almost a rewriting of the report, but the report has been in the hands of the Government since 10th December. Since then there has been almost a whole session of Parliament, but the amendment has not been brought before us. 
I suspect the reason why  Sir Henry  Bolte's Government has not brought forward the amending legislation is that he does not want to do so until his amendments are underpinned by the Commonwealth. It is an urgent necessity that the Commonwealth take the initiative and amend its legislation. Instead of squabbling about what is going on in the country and speculating on who will win the next election and on how it will be won, the Government must realise that this important legislation requires amendment at the earliest opportunity. Under the Standing Orders my speech is limited to half an hour, and I do not know what time I started; it will be for the  Clerk  to tell me when I should finish. 
Thank you,  Mr President,  and honourable senators. There are several sections of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act that I would like to examine in more detail. One to which I wish to direct attention is section 101 which provides for the Designated Authority, who is the administative officer in each of the States, to issue directions to permittees and licensees and for those directions to be complied with regardless of whether they are in conformity with the regulations made under the Act. That to me is a very obnoxious provision because it allows a Designated Authority to override completely regulations that have been approved by .the Parliament. The Parliament can be completely ignored and overridden by  a  Minister or by an inspector - not even  a  responsible Minister - who has been appointed by the Minister issuing directions that override the regulations. The worst feature of this legislation is that it allows the Designated Authority to regulate the industry by direction. This legislation came into force in April 1968. Although it has been operating now for 4 years there are no regulations. 
The Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. The governments of the States and the Commonwealth have not been able to agree upon and present to the various parliaments the regulations that are required to be made under this Act. As a consequence the designated authorities of each of the States are issuing directions on how the industry shall be operated in their States. There is no uniformity about the directions and in many cases the directions are confidential and are not available for examination. They were not available even to members of the Committee. The governments of some of the States said that their directions were confidential and the Committee did not get to see them. 
All of the things that would be covered by regulations under the Act. Section 157 sets out the matters in relation to which the Governor-General may make regulations. Section 157 reads: (1.) The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters that by this Act are required or permitted to be prescribed or are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act. (2.) In particular, but without limiting the generality of the last preceding subsection, the regulations may make provision for securing, regulating, controlling or restricting all or any of the following matters: 
It then goes on to list those matters under paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and so on. 
I shall read on: 
the exploration for petroleum and the carrying on of operations, and the execution of works, for that purpose; 
Could one find  a  provision wider than that? 
the recovery of petroleum and the carrying on of operations, and the execution of works, for that purpose; 
conserving, and preventing the waste of, the natural resources, whether petroleum or otherwise, of the continental shelf; 
Think of our Great Barrier Reef. 
the construction and operation of pipelines, water lines, secondary lines, pumping stations, tank stations or valve stations and the carrying on of operations, and the execution of works, for any of those purposes; 
So it goes on. All of these things can be done by regulation which is not made public, which is not presented to this Parliament, which is not approved by this Parliament or by the State parliaments. An inspector appointed under the Act can give directions in relation to these things. 
It is done by a lesser person than a Minister. It can be done by an inspector appointed under the Act. It depends upon whether the Designated Authority - that is the administrating officer - delegates that power to the inspector. If he delegates that power to the inspector, the inspector can issue directions covering all of these things. Even if regulations are made, under section 101 of the Act an inspector can issue a direction and that direction shall be obeyed notwithstanding that it is contrary to the regulations. So the direction making power can override what the Parliament has done. This is a disgrace and should be attended to at the earliest possible moment. There are also other regulation making powers, and I want to refer particularly to subsections (4.) and (5.) of section 9. This is the most important section in this Act because it is the section which purports to pick up the State or Commonwealth law, written or unwritten, and transport it to operate on the continental shelf out to the 200 metre mark, or further if the area is exploitable. Subsection (4.) provides: 
The regulations may provide that any provisions referred to in subsection (1.) of this section that are specified' in the regulations do not apply by reason of this section or apply with prescribed modifications only. 
So under section 9 (4.) which applies all of these laws, by a regulation it can be said that such and such a law shall not apply. The Parliament has said that a law shall apply yet by a regulation that law can be determined not to apply in this area. This is a matter which must be rectified at the earliest opportunity. Subsection (5.) states: 
Regulations made for the purposes of the last preceding subsection may provide that prescribed provisions be added to or substituted for any of the provisions referred to in subsection (1.) of this section. 
Can honourable senators imagine the width that that covers? By regulation all of those things can be done. I submit that this situation arises out of the dilemma in which the draftsman found himself when the parties to the agreement decided to set aside the constitutional provisions. The draftsman was trying to do something which he did not have adequate powers to do. This dilemma was created by the powers that be. I could go on for hours on this subject but I would be reiterating much of what is in this report. I have tried only to bring to the attention of the Senate a few of the things that I think need to be rectified within this legislation. I hope that I have touched on those things that are most important. My colleagues,  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator O'Byrne,  also will be speaking on this legislation. I hope that they will bring out some of the points that I have not brought out. Practically all of the points that I have made are contained in this report, and if I were to continue with my remarks now I would be reiterating much of what is contained in the report. I thank the Senate for its generosity in granting me an extension of time. 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation seen a statement by  Sir Frederick  Scherger to the effect that there is likely to be an increase in domestic air fares? Is there a world wide tendency for air fares to be reduced? If there is a tendency for air fares to be reduced throughout the world, what justification is there for increases in Australia? Will the Minister take whatever action is available to him to assure the Australian public that there will be no increase in domestic air fares while this tendency exists? 
 I am conscious of the fact that the number of honourable senators in this place was increased in 1949 and that the Standing Orders have remained substantially the same with 24 more senators to take up the debating time. I am also conscious of the amount of time that is wasted at the commencement of every session. I do not blame the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  for this. He has to wait until matters come from another place and are presented in this place. But at the end of every session we are faced with a bulk of legislation.  It is  no good saying  that it is  not important. If it was not important it would not be before the Parliament. I do not propose to argue about limiting the time to 2 hours. I will vote for that. But I am concerned about the manoeuvring that has taken place in regard to this question. 1 am not canvassing your ruling in any way,  Mr Deputy President.  But there was before the Senate on a previous occasion a clear cut issue on which I moved an amendment. That amendment was not brought back to this chamber. It was decided that the whole of item 4 would be referred back to the Standing Orders Committee. That Committee has not seen it as yet. 
I would have thought that ethics would have demanded that the proposal contained in notice of motion No. 1 also would have gone back to the Standing Orders Committee. If an ethical case was being made out, everything that was before the Senate with respect to standing order 64 should have been returned to the Standing Orders Committee. However, that was not done. You,  Mr Deputy President,  have ruled that it need not have been done and that the question before the Chair is notice of motion No. 1. I have heard the remarks made here and have been here long enough to know what goes on in relation to urgency motions. There are occasions when the Whip is looking for speakers because 5 speakers will be required on an urgency motion. On other occasions there are too many speakers and the Whip has to make a choice and decide who he will allow to speak. So, I think one cancels out the other. I do not accept that this is a reason for a reduction of time. 
My concern is this: Once the Leader of the Government has secured in principle a reduction of speaking time from 3 hours to 2 hours, does he then propose to let the Standing Orders Committee determine whether the length of speeches will be 30 minutes, 20 minutes, IS minutes or 10 minutes, or are we to have from faim another notice of motion setting out the time for speeches? In one instance the determination of the period of debate that will be allowed is taken out of the hands of the Committee. As  Senator Cavanagh  has said, this was done by the issuing of an instruction to the Standing Orders Committee. But nobody says what is to be done in regard to the length of speeches. Before a vote is taken on this question of limiting the debating time for urgency motions to 2 hours, I would like to know the intentions of the Leader of the Government with respect to the length of speeches. Whilst I have said that I would support the reduction of time to 2 hours, I must qualify that by saying that it will depend on the answer to the question I have asked with respect to the length of speeches. I am not satisfied that if a matter of urgency is introduced supporting speakers will be able to make out a case in regard to it in 10 minutes. 
I would much prefer, if there is to be a reduction in debating time and if part of a standing order is to deal with the length of speeches, that the times remain at 30 minutes and 15 minutes and that the number of speakers from each side be reduced from 5 to 3. I think that is much more sensible. It will meet the case put by  Senator McManus  in which he said that the Whip runs around looking for speakers. I deny that that happens in every case. There are many cases when this does not happen. Until I know what is to happen about the length of speeches, I am a little confused. In one instance, the Leader of the Government wants the Senate to determine an issue in principle. That is all that is involved. It is not changing any standing order. Will he bring the other question before the Senate as a matter of principle and let us have a look at it, or will that one be left to the discretion of the Standing Orders Committee? Why do not we deal with the matter in the proper manner? Everything that  .Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson wants to do is contained in the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee. I think that that is the proper way in which it should be dealt with. 

 Senator TURNBULL (Tasmania) 8.48) - I support the motion, but I want to raise a couple of matters concerning it. We are now faced with the position that there are 8 senators on the cross benches. They represent 12i per cent of the members of the Senate. If there are roughly 8 speakers on an urgency motion, we are entitled to have one  speaker.  But that never happens. The myth- 
I am conscious of what the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said about deciding this matter on the voices. However, I do not know the will of the Senate in connection with this matter because a free vote is allowed. I do not know on what side my colleagues might vote. Five of my colleagues sat to the right of the Chair on the last occasion a vote was taken. I do not know whether we should just accept the fact that the will of the Senate is against this motion. I want to say seriously to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that what he proposes is to reduce the time for which honourable senators can speak on money Bills - Bills that the Senate cannot amend or may not amend - from li hours to 30 minutes. 1 ask: Does he propose to compensate for that reduction by moving that the time limit for speaking to a clause of a Bill shall be 30 minutes instead of 15 minutes as it is at present? Can we speak for 30 minutes as many times as we wish when we are dealing with a particular clause? 
When questions such as this are put forward these things have to be clarified. There have been occasions on which I have spoken for an hour, but they have been very few. The Senate has agreed to legalise the gentleman's agreement which operates on days that the Senate proceedings are broadcast. Last week, on Wednesday night, I took the opportunity to speak on the motion for the first reading of a money Bill. I had intimated that I would use that device in order to initiate a debate, believing I would be able to speak for H hours. However, as we had legalised the agreement relating to the length of speeches on days on which the proceedings are broadcast T was limited to 30 minutes. I appreciated the good graces of honourable senators who were present at that time and allowed me to extend my speech for more than 30 minutes. However, the rule was that T could speak for 30 minutes on the motion for the first reading of a money Bill. 
Honourable senators should be looking at these sort of things. I do not know whether anyone actually wants to speak for 14- hours but it happens on occasions. I remember that on 4th June I960 1 spoke for li hours on a matter which 1 thought was urgent to the nation. I made a plea for the Government to lift the embargo on the export of iron ore. That is the only time that I can remember on which I exceeded 1 hour. There are occasions when time is required. Every honourable senator knows what the lifting of the embargo on the export of iron ore has done for the economy of Australia. I urge the Leader of the Government not to take this motion to  a  vole. I urge him not to see whether honourable senators will cross the floor under the free voting system. I urge him to withdraw his motion. 
I took note of the remarks of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  in reply and thank him for them and the statement that he would have a look at my speech. I do not doubt the integrity of the Minister when he says he will look at my speech when he gets the opportunity and when Hansard is published but I want to impress some facts upon him. During the consideration in Committee of Appropriation Bill (No. 1) last December the Minister told me that there was involved a further charge of $6,521 for the telephone service to the factory of Kailis Gulf Fisheries Pty Ltd. He then went on to say: 
Both departments agreed that the final amount decided on should be approved. The amount paid to Kailis was $335,000. 
The Hansard report then reads as follows: 
Has that been paid to Kailis? 
 I wish to raise a question which, if discussed at the Committee stage, would involve some considerable speaking time and might lead to the accusation that I was making a second reading speech. In the course of the consideration of the Budget last year by the Committee of the Whole, I raised the question of the amount of money being paid to one Michael George Kailis for 2 or 3 tin sheds and a freezer and, I am advised by  Mr Kailis,  12 acres of land. The amount was said to be $335,000. It seems now that the amount was $343,000. I have had a look at the answers that were given by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  in reply to some queries by me at the Committee stage of our consideration of the Estimates last year. 
At page 140 of Hansard report for Senate Estimates Committee E of Wednesday, 10th May 1972, we read: 
 The Bill before the House seeks to amend only one section of the Act, but it is a very important section because through it finance is provided for the working of the Public Works Committee. When I was a member of the Committee I found its work very interesting, but like  Senator Poyser  I have wondered when its work load will be eased. The great bulk of its work is in the Northern Territory, and by the terms of the Public Works Committee Act every work site that is referred to the Committee has to be inspected. In addition the hearings of the Committee involve constant travel. One can therefore appreciate why a 50 per cent increase in the amount to be allocated to the Committee is required. The Public Works Committee is very fortunate in its operations in having a very competent staff. The staff is sworn to secrecy on confidential matters, as are the members of the Committee. That is because of the very nature of the work of the Committee. In my experience quite frequently the Secretary of the Committee would place before members confidential information particularly as to costs. It would be dangerous if that information was released before the tenders for the works were called. This is a large part of the responsibility that committees of this nature have to carry. As you know from your experience on the Committee,  Mr Deputy President,  there is very little security in this place for confidential documents. 
I was in Perth during the recent visit of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  I not only saw the Press report but I also heard the Prime Minister make on television his statement about public access to the land concerned. 1 want to say quite frankly that for some time prior to the hearing of the Committee in Perth I had been assisting the Western Australian organisation known as Environment 2,000 in the preparation of the case it would put to the Public Works Committee for extra public access to Garden Island. It came as quite a shock to me to learn that the Prime Minister would be making a statement on a matter that was admitted by him still to be subject to the consideration of the Committee. The Prime Minister did say that the matter was before the Public Works Committee and that he expected that the report of the 
Committee on this reference would be presented to the Parliament in a very short time. So, it is quite clear that the whole subject matter was under consideration. The Prime Minister's visit to Western Australia for 4 days was advertised as being for the purpose of commencing the campaign there for the forthcoming elections. That was advertised throughout Western Australia. Therefore, it cannot be taken that this was other than a political move. 
I leave the matter there. 1 have sat here throughout the period that  Mr McMahon  has been Prime Minister of Australia. I have watched the mistakes that he has made over the years. But he is an experienced politician. He has been a member of this Parliament since 1949. He would appreciate, I would think, the confidential nature of information that is provided to committees - not only the Public Works Committee but also other committees. I hope that, as a result of what happened in another place in the course of consideration of this measure and what has happened here today, the Prime Minister will be a little more careful, when he is making public statements, to ensure that he does not breach the confidences that are within the terms of reference of committees. 
The purpose of the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Bill is to increase the amount of bounty paid to the large producers of gold - it does not concern the small producers - and to increase the amount of the premium price which may be retained by the industry from 25 per cent to 50 per cent. This measure shall operate from 1st January 1972. Because of the way in which the gold mining industry was running down, the question of assistance by way of an increase in bounty has been before this Government constantly since 1968. The Government has resisted an increase in the bounty on every occasion until December last year when it indicated that it would increase the amount of bounty from $8 to $12 an ounce. I do not want to say a great deal on this Bill. Those who wish to understand anything about the way in which the bounty is paid in the industry should have a look at the speech made on 23rd May in another place by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  where he sets out the way in which the bounty is paid in association with the retention of a percentage of the premium price. The Minister for Supply and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Garland)  in reply tried to make political issues out of the matter. I believe that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  was overseas at the time. The Minister stated: 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  who just spoke in the debate, put his finger on the point of the speech made by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  when he said that this is a matter which affects the electorate of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. ] listened to a very party-political speech from the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. It was no surprise to learn from him that he did not think that the Government had done enough. That is always his cry. Indeed, with respect, it is always the cry of all members of the Opposition. I have never heard the honourable member for Kalgoorlie praise or approve of anything that the Government has done. 
We have never opposed anything which the Government has wanted to do to assist the gold mining industry. On every occasion we have criticised the Government for not giving sufficient assistance and for unduly delaying assistance. At the present time in Kalgoorlie the price of gold has gone up to $58.35 an ounce. 
It was $58.35 an ounce this morning. That is a high premium over the standard price of SUS38 an ounce. This measure will give the industry some life. Of course, it will apply only to those mines that are presently in operation. The price is not stable enough to allow new mines to be opened. In order to develop a new mine one would have to have a guaranteed price for something like 20 years, having regard to the fluctuations of the stock market. Nevertheless, the subsidy has engendered sufficient confidence in the Lake View and Star gold mine in Kalgoorlie and in the Norseman gold mine at Norseman to recommence development operations. But this Government took a decision some time ago to apply the bounty for only another 3 years on the assumption that the gold mining industry would phase out. That was the statement made by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  at the time - that the gold mining industry would be allowed to phase out and the nickel industry would be allowed to phase in and therefore the employment of workers in the mining industry would be continuous. But this has not happened. The workers in the industry saw that the gold mining industry was phasing out but that the nickel mining industry was not taking over, and they left the industry and sought employment elsewhere. 
Now that Lake View and Star and Central Norseman mines want to increase their activity they are unable to obtain skilled miners to be able to do it. That is what the delay in the payment of the bounty has done for the gold mining industry. Because of a shortage of skilled miners the mines will be very lucky if they can increase their activities. I do not want the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  or anybody else to tell me that the Broken Hill South mine will be closing down and they will be able to obtain miners from there. You just cannot pick up people from one centre and take them to another. They are not snails; they cannot carry their houses on their backs. It is not easy to shift communities from one place to another. 
The Minister, in reply to the honourable member for Kalgoorlie in another place,  Mr Collard,  accused him of playing party politics. Let me say this to the Minister: He is the only Liberal Party member of Parliament from Western Australia. Because of that he has been elevated to a position of importance. This is a classic example of the application of Peter's principle. Since  Mr Collard  entered Parliament in 1961 the gold mining industry has been running down. The $35 an ounce was insufficient for the industry to be able to carry on. A bounty had been paid under the Chifley Government in order to assist the industry to keep going. It was incumbent upon  Mr Collard  constantly to press the Government for assistance for this industry and constantly to press the Government to keep the industry in operation so that the 25,000 people in Kalgoorlie would not be dispersed throughout Western Australia and probably throughout Australia, applying pressure on all the social services such as power, roads, houses, water supply and sewerage. All of these things happen when towns are allowed to close down and people have to go elsewhere to seek employment. 
It is wrong for the Minister - who has probably never been to Kalgoorlie, who has certainly never been underground in Kalgoorlie and who has certainly never associated wilh the miners in Kalgoorlie - to turn around and say to the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, whose responsibility it is to see that the mine is kept in operation, that he was making a party political speech. If anybody has made a party political speech it was  Mr Garland  in his reply to  Mr Collard. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Did the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd enter into an agreement with the Western Australian Government to construct by 1978 an integrated steel works at Kwinana capable of producing one million tons of fabricated steel per year, in order to obtain control of certain iron ore reserves in Western Australia. 
Has the company recently announced an increase in expenditure on plant at Newcastle amounting to $82m. 
Has the company also announced the possible closure of the steel works at Kwinana at the end of March. 
In view of the potential closure of the steel works at Kwinana can the expenditure at Newcasetle be justified. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Brokern Hill Proprietary Company Ltd, has entered into agreements with the Western Australian Government to construct by 1978 an integrated steel works at Kwinana, in order to obtain control of certain iron ore reserves in Western Australia. The plant is to consist of a blast furnace having a production capacity by 1978 of not less than 500,000 tons per annum of basic pig iron or equivalent foundry iron and steel making facilities capable of producing not less than 500,000 tons of steel per annum in a form and a quality ready for marketing. 
It has been reported that the additional expenditure at Newcastle is not concerned directly with the introduction of new iron making or steel making facilities. The major elements of the expenditure involve a new bloom mill and continuous mill complex, extension to the foundry, bulk power supply, extension to a merchant mill and a rotary lime kiln. As this expenditure will result in the installation of additional rolling capacity it is proposed to expand the steel making production of the currently installed facilities from 2.14 million to 2.68 million tons per annum to service this capacity. 
The expansion at Newcastle therefore should not affect operations at Kwinana which is concerned with pig iron not steel production. Production of pig iron at Kwinana was threatened by lack of orders but recent reports indicate that sufficient new orders have been received to alleviate the closure of the blast furnace in the near future. 
It should not be expected that short term fluctuations in the demand for pig iron products from Kwinana would materially affect long term planning for the expansion of the Australian steel industry of which the announced expansion at Newcastle forms a part. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in the sheep and wool research section of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisationthe number of senior scientists is being reduced from 28 to 10 and that the number of support scientists and technicians will be reduced propotionately; if so, does this mean that a number of major research projects will be postponed indefinitely. 
Was the reduction in research projects taken last year during a period of depression in the wool industry; if so, in view of the improvement in the wool industry will the policy be reviewed. 

 Senator WRIGHT - The Minister for Education and Science has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The figures given in the first part of the question are incorrect. The major part of the sheep and wool programme of CSIRO is funded from the Wool Research Trust Fund, and is carried out in 8 production Divisions and 3 textile Divisions. There were 895 staff supported from this source at 1st July 1971, and by 30th June 1972 the number will be approximately 820. There will he no significant change in the ratio of professional to non-professional staff over this period. 
The reduction was necessary because the funds available to CSIRO from the Wool Research Trust Fund were insufficient to maintain the previously existing programme in the face of increasing research costs. The staff who could no longer be supported from this source were redeployed to other work related to the rural industries, either in the same or other Divisions of CSIRO. I am assured that it is the intention of the Executive of CSIRO to retain a strong sheep and wool research programme within the framework of its total rural research programme. 
 Mr Deputy President,  I support the motion of dissent from your ruling. I do so on the basis that the Senate must be responsible for the actions that it takes. At the moment, it is attempting to take an action against a citizen of Australia. It is easily known why there is urgency for this question to be discussed tonight. The Australian Democratic Labor Party well knows it. It is because of a court action pending against  Senator Kane  in the Supreme Court of New South Wales. I will have more to say about this at a later stage. The matter is due for mention in the Supreme Court of New South Wales tomorrow morning. The reason why  Senator Kane  is not present in the Senate chamber at this time is that he is attempting to obtain an adjournment of that hearing on the grounds that he has to be in the Senate chamber tomorrow. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  -  Senator Cant,  a withdrawal of your remark has been asked for. 
I withdraw the remark. 
I will not apologise. I will withdraw the statement. I was asked by the  Deputy President  to withdraw the statement and I have withdrawn it. That was his request to me. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! The Senate will come to order. 

 - Mr Deputy President, for you to attempt to confine this debate to the narrow issue of the placing of business on the notice paper is to deny the Senate the responsibility for the actions that it takes because there is no question but that immediately following the carrying of this motion the question of sub judice will be raised. It cannot be avoided. I would say, out of respect for the Senate, that you could not rule in any other way but that the matter to be brought on was sub judice. I propose to speak to the matter of sub judice at a later time. But at this time your ruling would inhibit the Senate in the proper order of debate and it should not be agreed with. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Wheeldon's)  be agreed to. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that a few days ago  Senator Hannan  asked  Senator Murphy  whether he,  Senator Murphy,  was a close friend of the Yugoslav Prime Minister who at that time was about to visit Australia? Did this question subsequently prompt the Minister to fear for the life of the Yugoslav Prime Minister and for the safety of his own family? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Does the Minister agree with the statement made in a letter from a Minister for Immigration in the previous Government to his colleague the former AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood,  that there could be serious consequences if Croat nationals in Australia are permitted to continue unchecked their terrorist activity and outrages against representatives of the Yugoslav Government and authority generally in this country? Does the Minister further agree with  Mr Lynch's  statement that bombing attacks on the Yugoslav Embassy in Canberra and other incidents are 'evidence of a pattern of extremist activity which should be capable of preventive measures by the law authorities'? Is the Minister concerned, as  Mr Lynch  was, with the inevitable involvement of human life' in this situation? Can the Minister indicate what differences there are between the attitudes expressed by the previous Attorney-General to th;se issues and the attitudes expressed by the present Attorney-General to the Minister for Immigration on this issue? 
I believe that the whole purpose of the motion is to sabotage the  President  of the Senate. It has no purpose other than that. The sabotage has been committed by members of his own Party. Let us examine the motion moved by  Senator Withers.  The first point that he makes is that question time should continue at the will of the Senate. That has been the position since 27th February. Question time has been continued at the will of the Senate. Long before the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation matter arose and long before the matter of Croats in this country arose, there was an extension of question time at the will of the Senate. The motion also refers to 'Ministers who seek recognition'. Recognition by whom? They are Ministers authorised by the GovernorGeneral, the Queen's representative in this country. It is not up to the will of the Senate to recognise them or not. They have been sworn in as Ministers of the Crown and form part of  Her  Majesty's Government in this country, lt is not for honourable senators opposite or anyone else to recognise them; they are recognised by the proper authority. The motion continues:   . . from the Senate are obliged to answer questions. . . . 
I repeat: 'obliged to answer questions'. I have been in the Senate for nearly 14 years. 
 I suppose it is too long. I quite believe that it is too long, lt is too long for some people to have lived on this bloody earth. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  -  Senator Cant! 
What does the learned Clerk of the Senate say in his book 'Australian Senate Practice'? At page 149 of that volume he said: 
It is a well established rule of procedure that there is no obligation upon a Minister to answer a question. It is entirely discretionary with Ministers as to whether or not they answer questions. 
That was a ruling given by President Baker, President Gould, President Givens, President Lynch and President Mattner, and it was never disputed. Each of those Presidents of this Senate has ruled that a Minister is not obliged to answer questions. We are dealing with a motion moved for political purposes in an attempt to embarrass the elected Government of this country. The Opposition is trying to impose these sorts of conditions upon Ministers. The motion says that Ministers are not only 'obliged to answer questions' but are required to answer them 'with a promptness and accuracy. . . .' I practically gave away question time in this place because I could not get answers to questions. Every time I asked a question, after having done some research on the subject, it was placed on the notice paper. I have had questions to Ministers in this place on the notice paper for up to 7 months without getting an answer. 
It does not matter whether we curtail the time or not,  Senator Little;  we are not going to have question time lasting for 7 months. The motion says that Ministers should answer questions 'with a promptness and accuracy appropriate to Ministerial responsibility.' What is meant by the phase 'accuracy appropriate to Ministerial responsibility'? I have sat in this chamber and watched question time abused and prostituted for political purposes day after day.  Senator Wright  was one of the greatest offenders but he stood here tonight and made an emotional speech in support of this motion. Another great offender, a former Prime Minister,  Senator Gorton  as he then was, used question time every day for political purposes. We talk about Ministers being subjected to questions. 1 remember question time when we were deal ing with the VIP aircraft flights. I remember the then Prime Minister of Australia, the late Harold Holt, and the then Minister for Air answering questions in the other place in which they said that flight manifests were not available. I remember the late  Senator McKellar,  who represented in this place the Minister for Air, answering questions by saying that flight manifests were not available. Yet during all that time  Senator Gorton  was sitting on the manifests in his seat in this chamber. 
And later he produced them. He was sitting on them in that seat. 
Of course it does. That was absolute sabotage of his own Prime Minister. That is exactly what the Opposition is trying to do tonight to the  President  of the Senate. A little while ago when  Senator Wright  was speaking there were some interjections from this side of the chamber. The interjectors said that he could not read.  Senator Wright  took umbrage at people making that statement. He was asked to read the whole paragraph from which he quoted the first sentence but did not do so. Whether or not he can read is another matter but I shall read that paragraph and indicate the words that  Senator Wright  left out. 
 I do not know whether it was deliberate. You accused him of not being able to read. I refer to page 141 of 'Australian Senate Practice'. Under the heading General' these words appear: 
Questions can be asked without notice, or upon notice, only at the time set down for the purpose. 
A mark appears at that point to draw attention to the passage I read earlier relating to a ruling by  President  Givens. The author continued: 
Questions on notice are not called on by the  President  until after questions without notice have been disposed of. The Standing Orders prescribe no limit to the duration of questions without notice. In practice, some half - 
That is the word that the honourable senator could not read -  - some half to three-quarters of an hour is usually occupied on questions without notice . . . 
I am reading from the latest issue of 'Australian Senate Practice'. 
It was written by the learned  Clerk  of this Senate who stated that some half to three-quarters of an hour' is the practice in this place.  Senator Wright  could not read the word 'half. Whether that was deliberate or whether he cannot read is another question about which I make no charges but I say that he did not read the quotation. 
In practice, about three-quarters to one hour is usually occupied on questions without notice. 
I think  Senator Cant  should withdraw the imputation that 1 was misreading or omitting to read relevant material. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  -  Senator Cant,  I leave it to your good judgment. You have heard the explanation. 
I do not propose to withdraw what I said. I extend to  Senator Wright  the courtesy that someone has typed the quotation for him and has done so inaccurately. 
1 have the latest issue of Australian Senate Practice' and the only reference in the margin relates to  President  Givens of 1917-1919. I can hardly conceive that the  Clerk  would not have had the full quotation in previous editions of 'Australian Senate Practice'. Anyhow, if  Senator Wright  is offended I will withdraw the words but I maintain my view that the  Clerk  of the Senate has, in 'Australian Senate Practice', instructed the people of the world, not just of Austra ia, that question time extends for some half to three-quarters of an hour.  Mr Deputy 

 President, I do not know how far you will allow me to proceed.  Senator Wright  said: The idea that Ministers are not obliged to answer questions in the chamber in which they sit cannot be countenanced'. No Minister is obliged to answer a question. At any time any Minister can ask for a question to be placed on notice. 
Yes, for answer later and at his convenience. 
At the convenience of the Minister. The Minister has to provide the information for the answer. He can leave it as long as he likes. I have already to'd the Senate that I have waited up to 7 months for an answer because the question was political and embarrassing to a Minister at the time. A Minister can leave a question on notice for an indefinite time if he wants to do so. lt is the prerogative of a Minister not to answer the question at the time. Yet the proposition which  Senator Withers  puts forward is that the Minister shall answer with promptness and accuracy. That sort of ruling cannot be countenanced by this Senate.  Senator Wright  went on further to say that time was occupied in providing irrelevant answers in order to cover up or to evade the question. The honourable senator should remember that even before he was a Minister he complained about irrelevant answers to questions. On many occasions during the time he was a Minister honourable senators who now form a Government but who then sat on the Opposition side complained about the irrelevant answers which  Senator Wright  gave. 
I am not one to say that the honourable senator does not have a good memory; he has. But on this occasion 1 say that it is convenient. The proposition is put that Ministers place irrelevancies in answers in order to evade the questions. I do not agree that my Ministers have done that. I think that in the short time they have been in office they have done a remarkably good job in answering the questions which have been rolled up to them by an Opposition which has 23 years of information behind it. The new Ministers have not been shown any courtesy to allow them to obtain the knowledge of their portfolios which will enable them to answer questions. Right from the start they have been bombarded with questions. I say that the whole of the proposition put by  Senator Withers  is wrong.  Senator Wright  goes further, or perhaps not further because  Senator Withers'  motion is to the effect that the end of question time shall be at the will of the Senate. I am not too sure whether  Senator Withers  meant what  Senator Wright  stated, namely, that this could go even until the adjournment as laid down by sessional orders. When  Senator Wright  was speaking he said that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation matter demands that the right be given to the Opposition to extend question time even until the time of the adjournment. 
It is the science of numbers which destroys democracy. Because they have the numbers on the opposite side, honourable senators have become so arrogant with their power that they think that they can subvert the Government. But there is always a day of reckoning. I assure honourable senators opposite that the day of reckoning will nol be far away if they continue with the tactics which they have been adopting since 27th February. The Government of Australia has been given a mandate by the people. It is a mandate to implement the policy which it placed before the people. The Government will not be frustrated by an Opposition majority in the Senate because we will go to the people and honourable senators opposite will answer for their misdeeds if they continue in this manner. The motion before the Chair tonight is impractical and incapable of being enforced. lt should not be before the Senate at this time. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Is it a fact that the Labor Government has taken over from the Australian Gas Light Company the construction of a gas pipeline from South Australia to Sydney? Was the construction of the pipeline approved by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government? Did the previous LiberalCountry Party Government give AGL permission to import from Japan all the pipe required with the exception of 80 miles? Is it a fact that the previous Government did this because Australian industry was unable to supply more than 80 miles of pipe? 
 This amendment seeks to have further consideration of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 deferred until, as I understand it, 21 August at the earliest.It is important that the question of sovereignty over the territorial sea and continental shelf be determined urgently. Without debating the merits of the Bill presented by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Senator Wriedt,  1 think that those honourable senators who have had a look at it will appreciate that in substance it is based upon the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. The Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources studied that legislation for 4 years. Many of the provisions of this Bill have arisen from the recommendations of the Select Committee. 
It has been said by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  that there should be consultation between the Commonwealth and the States. That consultation can only be with respect to sovereignty over the area and not with respect to other parts of the Bill, particularly Part II and Part III. Consultation took place between the Commonwealth and the States between 1964 and 1968 on the proposed Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill out of which this Bill arises. So, as to the substance of the matter which  Senator Wriedt  has placed before the Senate, there has been considerable consultation. Not everyone may agree with the proposal that has been put forward by the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  but I do not think that it can be said - I emphasise this point - that consultation has not taken place between the States and the Commonwealth as to the administration of the territorial sea and continental shelf area. 
The difference of opinion, to which  Senator Withers  referred, that is held between the Commonwealth and 3 Labor States, 2 Liberal States and a Country Party State is about who exercises sovereignty over the territorial sea and continental shelf area. That was not decided in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. It was stood aside. None of the States of the Commonwealth would surrender any of the rights it thinks it has. The question now is: Who has sovereignty over those areas? I believe it is urgent to determine that question in view of the fact that international conventions are now taking place. It should be remembered that it is the Commonwealth and not the States which has to negotiate with other nations. We have a Bill on the notice paper which seeks to ratify an agreement between the Commonwealth of Australia - not the States - and Indonesia over disputed territories. The States are incapable of negotiating those types of agreements. So it has become a matter of urgency for the present Government, as it should have been for the previous government, to clarify the position as to who operates in these areas. 
I am not familiar with what the various States are doing in London at the present time, but it would appear from the news media that they are seeking from the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council an advice certificate as to sovereignty. A binding decision will not be made by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council; it will simply issue an advice certificate. Based upon that advice from the Judicial Committee, I suspect that the States will proceed to the High Court of Australia for a judgment on the matter. I think  Senator Withers  was stretching the bow a little when he talked about a delay of only 3 months. It is all very well to say that the delay will be only until August, but there will be a Budget to be dealt with in August as well as the legislation that flows from the Budget and the other Government business that will have to be considered. Therefore, consideration of this Bill could be deferred until October or November if this amendment is carried. That would involve a delay of more than 3 months. Whatever the States are doing in London at the present time with the Privy Council about an advice certificate may take a great deal longer than that. How long it takes the Privy Council to give its decision will depend upon the substance of the argument presented to it. If, as a result of the Privy Council's advice, the States decide to proceed to the High Court for a determination of this matter, it could be 12 or 18 months before the question of sovereignty over off-shore areas is determined in Australia. 
I stress that this is a matter which should be resolved as soon as possible. My colleagues who sat with me on the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources will know that the regulation of the petroleum industry is in substance the same as the regulation of other industries in off-shore areas. The mode of operation is clearly laid out in the legislation that was passed in 1967 during the tenure of office of the previous government, subject to the quite substantial recommendations made by the Select Committee. I feel that there is no need for consultation with the States with respect to that part of the Bill. The only part of the Bill that is open to discussion between the Commonwealth and the States is that which seeks to decide sovereignty. 
During the debate last week on the proposal by the Australian Democratic Labor Party for an inquiry into privacy it was said that the recent incident was the first occasion on record that pairs had been called off. But I remind the Senate that pairs were called off some 2 years ago during the debate in the House, of Representatives on a Bill introduced by the men Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  and it was necessary for members of Parliament to be brought back from Perth because they had lost their pairing. Some of those people were in aircraft bound for Perth at the time pairs were called off and could not easily be recalled. The substance of the dispute within the Liberal and Country Parties at that time, as enunciated by the then Minister for National Development,  Mr Fairbairn,  was that there should be consultation with the States before certain legislation was put to the Parliament for enactment. It seems to me a rather shallow move, since the LiberalCountry Party coalition Government had been in office for some 18 months after that dispute between  Mr Gorton  and  Mr Fairbairn  over consultation with the States and when no consultations took place during that 18 months period, for the Opposition in this place now to want to defer the Bill until consultations do take place. As a result of the dispute between  Mr Fairbairn  and  Mr Gorton  why were not negotiations and consultations with the States put into operation during that period? The situation appears quite farcical to me. While the then Government held office and a dispute was splitting open the ranks of its members over non-consultation with the States, that Government took no action to hold consultations with the States. But now that there has been a change of Government and the present Government wants to take the natural course of asserting its rights by legislation over these off-shore areas, the Opposition moves that the Bill be deferred until consultation takes place. 
Pass whatever legislation you like in this place, yon will not determine the issue of sovereignty. Whether legislation is passed now or in 3 months' time or in 12 months' time, the question of sovereignty over the off-shore areas will not be determined by this Parliament. It can only be determined by the enactment of other legislation - and the States could have enacted legislation to take control of their areas had they thought their case was strong enough to stand up. Western Australia could have said: 'This off-shore area belongs to us under the letters patent. We will enact legislation to seize control of it.' The Commonwealth could then have appealed to the High Court. But none of the States ever thought that its case was strong enough for it to enact legislation. 
I do not think so,  Senator. 1  think they used a lot of bluff. If you look at what they are saying today you will see that they are not saying that they have any authority in the areas outside the territorial sea. They are still arguing that they have certain rights within the territorial sea but they are not arguing that they have rights beyond the territorial sea. On the contrary, during the negotiations when, firstly,  Sir Robert  Menzies, as he now is and, secondly,  Mr Holt,  was Prime Minister, and conducting the negotiations with the States, the States were bluffing that under the letters patent they had certain rights to the continental shelf. But it turns out that it was only bluff. During the hearings of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources, I think, it was pointed out that there was a case in Western Australia some time ago - and  Senator Durack  would know of it - in which the State of Western Australia was defeated and it proposed to appeal to the High Court to settle the question whether it had rights in this area. However, Western Australia was persuaded by the other States not to proceed with that appeal because the other States knew that if that appeal went to the High Court the weakness of their position would be exposed. 
I fail to see why we should not proceed with this Bill. I do not know when this Senate is going to adjourn; that decision is not in the hands of the Government but, unfortunately, in the hands of the Opposition. But the Senate will rise at some time for the winter recess. I fail to see why this piece of legislation should not be passed by this Senate at this time to allow the machinery for the settlement of the dispute between the Commonwealth and the States to proceed. I repeat: Pass whatever legislation you like in this place and you gain nothing. All you will do is bring to a head the dispute and the High Court will settle that dispute. The High Court will determine this dispute after hearing arguments. This is different from the Bonser v. La 
Macchia case when argument was not presented. One cannot accept the Bonser v. La Macchia case as the determining factor although it does give some indication of the views of 2 of the justices of the High Court. But in substance the argument as to soveriegnty in this area was not argued, and it was requested that it be not argued. So that case is not a binding factor. The only way we shall achieve real settlement of this question is to pass this legislation and to allow the States to proceed, if they think their case is strong enough, to the High Court, and let the High Court determine who has authority in this area. I urge the Senate to let this Bill proceed. It is not so simple as the Leader of the Opposition  Senator Withers  says, that we shall adjourn this debate for a period of 3 months. It could be adjourned for many more months than 3. I submit that it would not be able to take precedence over legislation arising from the Government's Budget which I expect will be presented to the Australian Parliament and the Australian people on 21 August. The necessary legislation arising out of the Budget will have to take precedence over this Bill. Therefore the Opposition would be adjourning this debate for a period of 5 to 6 months. I urge the Senate not to do that because even after the Parliament has passed the legislation the States will have to determine whether or not they want to appeal to the High Court. It is my opinion - and 1 stress that this is not the opinion of my Party - that the States will not proceed to the High Court on this legislation. - They have everything to lose and nothing to gain by proceeding to the High Court on this legislation. 
Who is exploring for or exploiting minerals other than petroleum off the shores of Australia today? Three States - Tasmania, New South Wales and Queensland - have issued permits to companies to explore in the offshore areas for minerals other than petroleum. 
Well,  Senator, some  of the permits for the exploration for petroleum in the off-shore areas were issued, at least by the State of Western Australia, back in 1951. That State seized the initiative to issue permits in this area while the then Commonwealth Government was asleep. The practical result of course was that practically the whole of the prospective areas, or the most promising of the prospective areas, of the continen tal shelf of Australia were issued to exploration companies in large lots. I do not have to remind  Senator Webster  of that because he sat on the Committee with me and he knows as well as I do the way in which the States abused the issue of permits in these areas. 
The simple fact that the States have issued permits to explore for minerals off their coast - what might be referred to as their adjacent area - is not evidence that they have sovereign rights in that area. The issue of these permits is something that just drifts along, just as the issue of permits to explore for petroleum just drifted along and no one took any notice. During the sittings of the Estimates committees I have asked officers from the Bureau of Mineral Resources questions about the issue of permits by the 3 States which have issued them for the exploration of minerals, other than petroleum. I have been unable to find out the size of the areas for which permits have been issued, to whom the permits have been issued, how many permits have been issued to each of the applicants or the minerals for which they have been permitted to explore. The officers from the Bureau of Mineral Resources have been unable to give me that information. 
I think they lack the information themselves. The answers given by the officers of the Bureau of Mineral Resources to my questions were that they did not know. Whether the position was that the States had not supplied them with the information I do not know. As far as I know, there is no obligation upon the States to provide the Bureau with the information. There is an obligation on the States to provide the Commonwealth with information regarding the exploration and exploitation of petroleum, but I know of no obligation on the States to provide information in regard to other minerals. 
I conclude on this note: This is not a matter for long argument, but I think that the Senate does not do itself justice by deferring it. It cannot be said that the Senate would want to consider the terms of the Bill because, as I have said earlier, the Bill is based upon the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act which has been well and truly inquired into by a Select Committee of this Senate over a period of 4 years. The only question that arises is one of sovereignty and the sooner the question of sovereignty in this area is resolved the better it will be for this nation. The Committee which inquired into the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act said that to defer making a decision on the matter was not doing a service to Australia. 
 I present the report of Estimates Committee F relating to particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1972-73, together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
/ ESTIMATES COMMITTEE E 
 We now proceed to deal with the group of departments covered by Estimates Committee A. The question is: 
That the votes for the group of departments covered by Estimates Committee A be now passed without requests. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry noticed Press reports stating that  Dr Kissinger,  the United States Secretary of State, has warned of dangerously low world food reserves and has made a proposal for a United Nations world food conference next year to ensure supplies? Would Australia be prepared to take part in such a conference? 
I ask the Attorney-General: Did the Rt Hon. J. G. Gorton while Prime Minister, on 5 May 1 970, announce that a royal commission had been appointed to inquire into any damage that may occur to the Great Barrier Reef as a result of oil exploration in the area? When did the royal commission first meet? How many meetings has it had? Has it made a report, interim or otherwise; if not, when can a report be expected? What has been the cost of the royal commission to date? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Did the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General, at a meeting held at Hobart in March 1969, agree to amend sections 9, 11 and 101 of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967? Were the amendments to section 9 and 1 1 designed to give greater effect to the applied laws in the off-shore areas? As a result of the agreement, did South Australia and Western Australia amend their laws to conform with the agreement? When can it be expected that the Australian Government and the other State governments will amend their laws to conform with the agreement? 
I enter this debate because of the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood.  If the amendment is carried proposed paragraph (f) will read, in part:  . . being an act or thing done within the limits of authority expressly conferred on him by the organisation in accordance with the rules of the organisation. 
We occupy a continent of 3 million square miles. Industry operates in about half of that area and is scattered throughout that area. In practice, union representatives on the jobs are elected by the men. Very often, for considerable periods the organisation does not know the names of the representatives of the workers on the jobs. The organisations do not know until such time as notification is sent to the branch office or the head office to let the oganisation know who the representatives of the workers are at that time. So any actions which may be taken by the worker may be taken in good faith by him, not in accordance with the authority expressly conferred on him. During the period that elapses while notification of appointment of the representative is being forwarded to the branch office or the head office, acts may occur. A representative may not have a set of rules of the organisation. They may not have been forwarded to him. There are all sorts of reasons why a representative may not have the rules, why he may not understand them, why he may not completely understand the laws or why he may not even have a copy of an award. This is pure industrial relations and the basis of what all honourable senators should stand for, not something extraneous that will be binding because of written words. These things happen. 
The previous Government recognised that situations can occur in which the law must be disobeyed. I remind  Senator Greenwood  of the protracted argument that took place over section 101 of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. It gives an inspector authority to override completely the regulations made by this Parliament. The penalty for refusing to accept a direction by an inspector is a fine of $2,000. To make the position clear I shall read into Hansard what section 10 1 of that Act states. It states: (1.) The Designated Authority may, by instrument in writing served on a person, being a permittee, licensee, pipeline licensee or the holder of a special prospecting authority or access authority, give to that person a direction as to any matter with respect to which regulations may be made under section 137 of this Act (2.) A direction under the last preceding sub-section has effect and shall be complied with notwithstanding anything in the regulations and, to the extent to which the regulations are inconsistent with the direction, the person to whom the direction is given is not obliged to comply with the regulations. (3.) Nothing in the last two preceding sub-sections authorises the making of an instrument giving a direction inconsistent with the applied provisions. 
The honourable senator will understand what are the applied provisions. The section continues: (4.) A person to whom a direction is given under sub-section ( 1 . ) of this section shall comply with the direction. 
Penalty: Two thousand dollars. 
The previous government recognised in the legislation that it brought down that it is not always possible to be able to comply with the law. There are circumstances where the law will be overridden by a direction of any person appointed by the Minister to issue a direction because there is a delegation of powers under other sections of the Act. Yet the Opposition wants to introduce this clause into an area involving ordinary working men who perhaps have not even attended high school. They will be representing their fellow workers, doing their best to see that industry is carried on in a peaceful and lawful manner. But emergencies may crop up. They may do something which is unlawful, but it may save lives. This applies particularly in the offshore areas of 
Australia. I could tell honourable senators some stories about this area of employment in which workers are completely isolated without communications of any kind. An action may have to be taken to protect and further the interests of the workers. But the Opposition would bind them to the rules of their organisation. 
There are plenty of cases in which it can be unlawful to do certain things. Firstly, there has to be a law before some action can be called unlawful. So let the honourable senator produce the Act of Parliament and then we will have a look to see whether something can be done unlawfully. Firstly, let us have a law to cover a matter before the honourable senator says that an act is unlawful. We want industrial relations to be carried on in a proper manner, not to be hidebound with law. This country was not developed with hidebound law and it will never be developed in this way. No law will bind the workers if the workers think they are being treated unjustly. Anyone who has any knowledge of industrial relations will know this. I have been through many strikes in my time. Most of them were justified. Some of them were not justified. Perhaps the workers might have been influenced by some hot head. But the great majority of strikes that occur take place because of conditions propagated by employers. 
That argument has been used during the past 20 years. The honourable senator referred to the dispute at the Broadmeadows Ford works. I have just returned to Australia from overseas. During my sojourn in Europe I consulted representatives of several industries there. It appeared to me that the Broadmeadows dispute arose out of working conditions- dissatisfaction with assembly line production. This applied particularly to migrants who were unable to understand the language in this country or who did not understand it completely. I talked to leaders of industry in Europe about job dissatisfaction. I found that in Europe there was a complete change away from the assembly line system of production because of the demoralising effect that it has upon the workforce. The Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd and General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd in Australia will have to change away from it also because it is too demoralising to the workforce. 
Europe is much further advanced in industrial relations than we are in Australia. But dissatisfaction with the assembly line production was the basis of the Broadmeadows dispute. Yet, because workers express dissatisfaction with their working conditions and take action to improve them when an employer will not improve them voluntarily or negotiate improvements, the Opposition wants to say that the employees are committing an unlawful act. 
This is the point: If the only recourse that the workers have to improve their conditions and to bring them to the notice of the public and the employer is to commit an unlawful act, the honourable senator denies them that right to commit that unlawful act. I say to him that no workers in Australia will accept such conditions. 
Everything is rubbish to the honourable senator because he has been walking over rubbish all his life. The simple facts are that the workers will not be denied justice. This has been proven through history. The simple writing of laws of this nature will not enhance the relations between workers and employers in any way. I commend to the Opposition its own legislation, the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act in which the Opposition makes provision for a breach of a law made by the Senate. 
The Bill before the Senate proposes to assert the authority of the Australian Government over the waters and the submerged lands of those waters from the low water mark of Australia. I would have though this is a Bill that would not be opposed by the Senate. I am very thankful for the contribution made by  Senator Greenwood  on the second reading of this Bill. I do not wish to reiterate the matters raised by him because they were so much to the point. There has in the past been much confusion about the sovereign rights of these areas. This confusion was created by the preamble to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act which states: 
And whereas the Governments of the Commonwealth and of the States have decided, in the national interest, that, without raising questions concerning, and without derogating from, their respective constitutional powers, they should co-operate for the purpose of ensuring the legal  effeciveness  of authorities to explore for or to exploit the petroleum resources of  those  submerged lands. 
By that paragraph in the preamble the Australian Government set aside its constitutional powers and entered into arrangement with the States to administer the areas off-shore. The Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources was appointed to inquire into and report upon that legislation. In other words, the Committee was to have a look at the horse after the stable door had been opened and the horse had bolted. 
The Committee came to certain conclusions with respect to the references that were given to it. Before I read the conclusions to the Senate I would like to refer to the first term of reference which was:  whether the constitutional conception underlying the legislation is consistent with the proper constitutional responsibilities of the Commonwealth and the States. 
There was unanimous agreement on the Committee with the recommendations flowing from that term of reference. The honourable senators who comprised the Committee and agreed wilh the conclusions were  Senator Young,  who was the  Chairman  of the Committee at the time of the final report,  Senator Greenwood,  who was  Chairman  of the Committee when an interim report in regard to this particular term of reference was presented to the Senate, myself.  Senator the  Honourable V. C. Gair.  Senator G.  C. Hannan,  Senator J.  B. Keeffe,  Senator C.  L. Laucke,  Senator Justin  O'Byrne and  Senator J.  J. Webster. They were in unanimous agreement on the following conclusions, which were arrived at by the Committee: 
That the constitutional conception underlying the legislation is inconsistent with what should be the proper constitutional relationship between the Parliament and the executive. 
That, in the context of broad constitutional responsibilities,  there  is a challenge to the exercise of the functions of Parliament in the conception of uniform legislation drafted by the executive arms of seven Australian Governments being presented to the Parliaments as a fait accompli requiring formal legislative approval. This cannot be regarded as strictly inconsistent with the 'proper constitutional responsibilities' of the Commonwealth and the States as the power always lies  with the Parliaments of the Commonwealth and the States to reject or amend the legislation. 
That last sentence is not strictly correct. Honourable senators who have taken an interest in this matter will understand that underpinning this legislation is a non-justiciable agreement and clause 6 of that non-justiciable agreement forbids any one of the governments from amending the legislation without the agreement of the other 6 governments. Sure, a government can take legislative action to amend its legislation, but immediately it does so it puts itself outside the agreement and the legislation. That is the penalty which is imposed upon the governments to prevent them from taking unilateral action. 
It must be remembered that the purpose of the mirror legislation was to use all the constitutional powers of Australia, wherever they may lie. Whether the Commonwealth had sovereign jurisdiction in this area or whether the States had it, the legislation was designed in such a way that no. challenge could be made to it because if the States did not have the power the Commonwealth did, and vice versa. Any State which took unilateral action would find itself outside the agreement and outside the protection of the other States and the Commonwealth. In March 1969 at a conference of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General it was agreed that sections 9, 1 1 and 101 of the Act be amended. But only 2 States have taken action with respect to that agreement in March 1969. This poses the question whether those 2 States or the other 4 States and the Commonwealth are now outside the agreement. This is something that should be looked at. Perhaps the other 5 governments should take action in accordance with the agreement reached at Hobart. That is the position as I see it and is why I draw particular attention to the second sentence of that conclusion. The third conclusion was: 
That the Committee does not regard the legislation as being inconsistent with the 'proper responsibilities' of the Commonwealth and the States because, as a result of a decision to avoid litigation which would have resolved the matter, it cannot say what is the measure of those proper constitutional responsibilities. 
This brings us to the crux of the matter. Having set aside the Constitution or the rights of the States or the Commonwealth under the Constitution, it was impossible to determine where the responsibilities lay. The legislation that we have before us today is designed to settle that matter. The fourth and most damaging conclusion that was arrived at was: 
That, notwithstanding the advantages to the national interest which the legislation and its underlying conception has produced, the larger national interest is not served by leaving unresolved and uncertain the extent of State and Commonwealth authority in the territorial sea-bed and the Continental Shelf. 
Therefore, I think it is timely that Commonwealth legislation to control this area by the Commonwealth Government should be passed by the Senate. This Parliament has only the powers that it asserts it has- no other powers. The issue of who has sovereign jurisdiction in this area will not be resolved in this Parliament; it will be resolved only by the assertion of the power by the Parliament and, if someone is sufficiently interested to challenge that assertion, by the High Court. The High Court is the protector of the Constitution of Australia. That is the place where the resolution should be made. 
So I urge all honourable senators to support this legislation. There are 9 honourable senators who are committed to supporting the conclusion that I have read out. They have agreed that these are the conclusions to which they have come after hearing all the evidence which was put together so ably by  Senator Greenwood  in the interim report, although I think he exhibited one of his continual faults- I do not criticise him for it- in that he may have over-talked in the report. Perhaps that is why not a great many honourable senators or members of Parliament have taken the trouble to read the report. The late Ben Chifley said: 'If you put it on one page the Minister will read it; if you put it on 2 pages the secretary will read it; but if you put it on 3 pages no one will read it'. I think that is what happens when we receive this sort of report. 
There are 800 pages of very valuable information in this report. The Committee came to its conclusions not lightly but only after hearing a lot of evidence. I want to refer to some of the evidence that was given. When I mention page numbers I will be referring to the ronoed transcript of evidence. Professor D. P. O 'Connell, who is regarded as one of the top men in the law of the sea in the world, not just in Australia, gave evidence before the Committee in Adelaide. He stated at page 2517 that there was considerable doubt as to the ability of the State to legislate with respect to the Continental Shelf. In his mind there was considerable doubt as to whether the States could legislate, although the States as a whole in a general submission had asserted that they could legislate for this purpose. At page 2521 Professor O 'Connell stated: 
Because the States may have no power to legislate extra- territorially and because the Commonwealth has restricted legislative power under the Constitution there could be an area of legal vacuum. 
Of course that again raises a point for legal jurisdiction. It is a question of what the powers of the Commonwealth are under its external affairs power. If I speak to my Leader who is the present Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  he will tell me that there is no question about the powers of the Commonwealth under the external affairs power. But if I speak to some other legal people they will tell me that the question has not been resolved and that the High Court has not enunciated a decision with respect to the external affairs power generally. There have been some decisions in specific cases but not generally. Professor O'Connell stated at page 2533 that the State boundaries are frozen at 1900 and that if you add anything to them it becomes Commonwealth territory. That is not quite right, of course, because the submerged land area never becomes Commonwealth territory. 
The Commonwealth may have sovereign jurisdiction in the area but if it were territory of the Commonwealth then section 122 of the Constitution would allow the Commonwealth to pass whatever legislation it liked for the area just as it can in the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory. Sovereign jurisdiction in the area given by the terms of the Convention on the Continental Shelf does not make the seabed to the continental shelf territory of the Commonwealth. Professor O'Connell casts another doubt at page 2434 where he states: 
It is arguable whether the State law is extended to the adjacent area. 
Some few months ago there was a case in Western Australia.  Senator Durack  would know of it. The State authorities took action against one Robinson for blowing up a wreck at Trial Rock. The State took action under the Western Australian criminal code. In the lower court proceedings the Crown Law people were prepared to argue the extent of the boundaries of Western Australia. But on appeal to the Supreme Court they were not prepared to sustain that argument. The learned Chief" Justice,  Sir Lawrence  Jackson, found that as Trial Rock was 12 miles distant from the Monte Bello Islands it was not in the State of Western Australia. Surely there is a restriction. I must be honest with the Senate. The criminal code of Western Australia is applied to the State of Western Australia. But if there were any truth in the submission made by Western Australia in conjunction with the other States that it had the right, as the coastal State, over the shores of Western Australia then the criminal code of Western Australia would have extended to that area. But the learned Chief Justice found that the criminal code of Western Australia did not extend into that area. So there is now one decision that at least Western Australia has no jurisdiction in this area. 
No, it was a submerged reef. 
It is 12 miles from the Monte Bello Islands. 
Yes. There is a decision from the Supreme Court of Western Australia which completely blows the submission made by Western Australia in conjunction with the other States that it has jurisdiction in this area. Of course the States would argue with respect to the Convention that the Commonwealth is only acting on their behalf and that once the Convention was entered into by the Commonwealth on behalf of the States then they would have sovereign jurisdiction in that area for their own State. I do not believe that that argument can be sustained. If it can be sustained, then let them sustain it in the High Court. Let us pass this legislation and let the States challenge it in the High Court. Let us once and for all know where sovereign jurisdiction lies. At page 2535 Professor O'Connell stated: 
Matters which are extra-territorial and international should be brought under central regulation. 
There the Professor is referring to the regulation of the areas by 7 different designated authorities. I ask honourable senators to remember that this legislation was passed in 1967. No regulations were made up to this date. Provision is made in the legislation for the Designated Authority to issue directions. He issues directions in what might be termed, for want of another word, regulations. While there was uniformity until Western Australia and South Australia seceded from the legislation, there is no uniformity in the directions issued by the designated authorities. If honourable senators are careful to read this report they will see that there is considerable criticism by the Committee of the amount of discretion which resides in the various designated authorities. Matters which are left to the discretion of the various designated authorities should have been matters of this substantive legislation and should not have been left at large. 
There is no uniformity of regulation, although there is a mirror Act. As a matter of fact, the regulation runs foul of being able to do anything in certain areas. This was brought out in evidence in relation to the deep sea divers employed in this industry. They are a scarce commodity in the world today. The Designated Authority was unable to prescribe rules for diving at depths greater than 180 feet. The diving had to be done under special circumstances. The divers had to use helium gas. No one in Australia understood sufficient about helium gas to be able to give proper directions as to how that diving should be performed. Only 3 weeks ago I met a deputation from the professional divers association, and it informed me that the position in Australia has not been resolved to date. Professor O'Connell's statement is pertinent to having the jurisdiction in the one place, and that should be with the Australian Government. As reported at page 2538 of the transcript, the Professor said: 
The Act does not extend any State law into the adjacent area if that law would be beyond the legislative competence of the Commonwealth (section 9). 
I do not want to argue extensively section 9 of the Act because I believe that the interpretation of it held up the committee for over 2 years, trying to find out exactly what section 9 did. Section 9(1) transports and applies all the laws of Australia, whether written or unwritten, and instruments made under those laws into the waters of the continental shelf of Australia. They are very wide terms. The word 'instruments' has some restrictions upon it. The Committee was unable to say whether an award made under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was an instrument. I believe that there is insufficient law on this question. If an award made under that Act is not an instrument it would not apply in this area. One of the Committee 's recommendations was that subsection ( 1 ) should clarify the position by the addition to the words 'instruments made under those Acts' the word 'awards'. 
In section 9 (2) the draftsman has said that the laws which are transported and applied in this area are laws applicable only to the exploration and exploitation of petroleum products. That means, to take a simple case, that the criminal law does not apply in this area. We had evidence from legal people in Victoria, and I questioned the counsel who appeared before the Committee as to whether the advice of senior counsel had been sought. He agreed that it had been sought. A pay packet was stolen from one of the men on a pipe-laying barge. A legal firm was asked to advise whether a prosecution could ensue. On the interpretation of section 9 (2), it was not possible to institute proceedings under the criminal code of Victoria. This is the sort of thing which one finds in section 9. 
In section 9 (3) the draftsman protects himself once again by saying that the laws which are transported and applied in this area are only those laws which the Commonwealth Parliament can pass. Dependent upon a proper interpretation of the external affairs power, but looking at that power as it has presently been interpreted, one is faced with the restrictions imposed by the Commonwealth Constitution in this area. I will instance a case. There was an industrial dispute on a pipe-laying barge in Bass Strait. Conciliation Commissioner Watson was asked to resolve that dispute. The conclusion to which he came was that as the dispute did not extend beyond the boundaries of a State it was not within his jurisdiction, and he was unable to resolve it. This is the type of restriction that one gets with section 9. 
Subsections (4) and (5) of section 9 are the most extraordinary subsections because they allow regulations to be made which would make any of the laws which are transported and applied in this area non-operative. That means that a regulation can be made. For instance, the subsections say that the Workers Compensation Act does not apply in this area. One must remember that a regulation can be made on the last sitting day of a parliament. It can operate during the recess and for 1 5 sitting days of the next sitting of the Parliament. Workers could be injured out in this area- it is a highly intensive injury area- and no workers compensation legislation applies. I do not want to say any more about section 9, but it is an illustration of why there should be resolution of this problem. 
If the very short second reading speech in the South Australian Parliament is looked at, it was as a result of evidence before the Senate Select Committee that the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General agreed that sections 9, 1 1, and 101 should be amended. Only South Australia firstly and then Western Australia adhered to that agreement. I pose this question: What is the position with regard to clause 6 of the non-justiciable agreement which underpins this legislation? Are those States inside or outside the legislation? Are the other 4 States of the Commonwealth inside or outside the legislation? 
I pose the question. It has to be resolved. The only way that I can see its being resolved is by the High Court. This matter will not get to the High Court unless this Parliament passes a measure and lets someone challenge it. 
There is no alternative. 
That could be done. At least, a legal authority told me that it could be done. I do not know what the Attorney-General would think about it, or even what the exAttorneyGeneral would think. If the Pipeline Authority Act transgresses the Australian Constitution it could be subject to challenge. The onus is on those who say that the legislation setting up the Pipeline Authority is invalid to prove their points, and they prove them by going to the High Court. The remedy is there for them. The High Court is the protector of the Constitution, and no one else. For people in this place to say that that legislation is invalid is ridiculous. The legal men can have opinions as to whether it is valid but only the Justices of the High Court will say whether it is. When they say so they may be wrong but there is no one to tell them that they are wrong. 
At page 2256 Professor O'Connell questioned the security of title beyond the 200 metre mark. He said that it was in doubt. I am not capable of arguing whether that is correct but it is well known that the Government in most cases refrained from issuing permits to explore beyond that mark. Some permits for Bass Strait were issued to the Magellan company which has the Merenie-Palm Valley oil and gas but very little else was done. A representative of one of the big exploration companies came to me in Perth a couple of years ago and asked my opinion on whether the Commonwealth would be prepared to issue titles to areas in deeper water off-shore in Western Australia. Of course my answer only could be that that company would have to consult the Government. I am not the government and the Government has its own policy. Professor O 'Connell cast doubt on any permit issued in this area outside the 200 metre limit. At page 2593 he was reported as having said: 
If the whole operation off-shore were under one unitary authority there would be less reason for legal argument. 
That was the final conclusion Professor O'Connell came to. His opinion was that if it was under one authority there would be less room for legal argument. 

 - His mind may have been broadened in the four or five years since he gave evidence to the Committee: I do not know. On the other hand his mind may have become more fixed. Nevertheless those were the opinions he expressed under cross-examination at that time. He was not the only person who thought that one authority should be in control of this area.  Mr Pettingell,  a man who has been talked about a lot in this place within the last couple of days, was reported at page 1773 as having said: 
Because they are resources of national significance they should be under Australian control. 
At page 1774 he was quoted as having said that national control was preferable to State control.  Dr Hunter,  who unfortunately is not alive now, was then at the Australian National University and at page 2344 he was quoted as stating: 
A single authority controlling goods or raw materials is to be preferred. 
I do not know whether I should go through all these quotations. 
The Leader of the Opposition in Queensland,  Mr Houston,  gave evidence and I suppose this would be a political answer. I do not know whether it could be said now after the recent visits to see the Queen about the Privy Council. At page 709 the Leader of the Opposition in Queensland was quoted as having said: 
There could be certain advantages in central control provided the States' financial interests were protected. 
I do not think the Commonwealth said at any time that the financial interests of the States would not be protected. Professor G. S. Reid of the University of Western Australia was quoted at page 1424 as having said that there should be uniform control. That could mean anything, of course; it may even mean the mirror legislation but at least he said that the control should be uniform. But the control is not uniform despite the Act of Parliament which was passed because the directions given by the designated authorities are not uniform. At page 1444 Professor Reid said that there was need for central control. At page 1447 he said that there should be sole Commonwealth government control. The next man I intend to quote is known to pretty well everyone here, particularly the legal men who decorate this chamber. I refer to Professor J. E. Richardson, who said at page 1 509: 
The Act should provide for complete responsibility by the Commonwealth for the Commonwealth Act. . . the Royalty Act should be amended to provide for payment of royalties to authority exercising powers of DA. 
There was no thought in Professor Richardson's mind of not protecting the financial interests of the States as enunciated by  Mr Houston  but he did say that there should be complete responsibility by the Commonwealth. At page 1540 Professor Richardson was quoted as having said that the Commonwealth had fallen down by placing administration of the Act in the hands of the States. On the same page he was reported as having said that the Commonwealth should have an overriding authority. Professor Cowen, of the University of New England, was reported at page 2084 as having said: 
Fragmentation of responsibility may well not serve our interests. 
He was referring to the Act that fragmented the responsibility among 7 different authorities. Professor Sawer, of the Australian National University, was reported on page 344 as having said that it would have been better to put the whole matter in the hands of one central authority. I will get away from the legal men for a while although this is a very legal Bill. 
I only know about the evidence that they gave us.  Mr McGarry,  who at the time was  chairman  of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association, said at page 2954: 
Unless you have one body you could not have this approach. There must always be variances. The overseas companies are the ones that would like one body. 
Of course, the important companies exploring for oil in Australia are the overseas companies.  Mr McGarry  gave evidence not on behalf of himself but on behalf of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association. I do not want to proceed to give more, but several other references in the evidence support the argument that the authority should be in one place. We cannot find out whether it will be in one place unless we assert the authority in this Parliament and have it challenged in the High Court so that that Court may rule on it. The first quotation that I want to make comes from a highly esteemed member of the Liberal Party. 
-Sir Robert Menzies. In 1965,  Sir Robert  said this: 
The question, of course, inevitably has arisen between the Commonwealth and the States as to who has the jurisdiction. The States say that within the territorial limits- which, being old-fashioned, we call within the three-mile limit- they have the sole jurisdiction. We don't agree with that as a matter of law, but we on the other hand assert the outside territorial limits and on the Continental Shelf, which has a total area about twenty times the size of the territorial waters, the jurisdiction belongs to the Commonwealth. 
That was said by  Sir Robert  Menzies who, apart form being a very astute and very well respected member of Parliament, has a not inconsiderable knowledge of the law. He does not admit that the States have authority over the territorial sea; he is quite adamant that they have nothing outside the territorial sea. 
I do not want to weary honourable senators, but I should like to quote what was said by a former  President  of the International Court of Justice and very prominent member of the Liberal Party,  Sir Percy  Spender, in an address to the Australian Conservation Foundation. He had no doubts that the Commonwealth had the power from the low-water mark out. He is a legal authority who cannot be lightly brushed off. It is true- I admit this-that  Sir Percy  Spender was addressing a gathering when he said this; he was not making a decision as a result of argument placed before him. As honourable senators will understand, there is quite a difference between making a decision as a result of argument and making a decision as a result of arguing with oneself To that extent, there may be a weakness in what  Sir Percy  Spender had to say. But the quality of his legal ability cannot be disputed and his capacity to arrive at this decision cannot be disputed. He put the result of what he said in 3 short paragraphs, as follows: 
Excluding what are commonly known as inland waters, the territorial boundaries of Queensland and other Federal States end at low-water mark. 
The territorial seas bordering Australia and the sea-bed thereof with all its natural resources are those of the Commonwealth, not those of any Federal State. 
Dominion over the sea-bed and the natural resources of the whole of the Continental Shelf commencing at low-water mark, and the right to explore and exploit these, or permit others to do so, is vested exclusively in the Commonwealth. 
Those are strong words from such a learned man. It is well known to everyone here, I think, that in a case in the High Court against a fisherman who operated off the coast of New South Wales- the La Macchia case, if I might refer to it as such- a former Federal Attorney-General and now Chief Justice of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, concluded that the Commonwealth had sovereign jurisdiction from the low-water mark. He was supported by  Mr Justice  Windeyer in that conclusion. So there is ample reason to believe that the Commonwealth should assert its authority in this area and that it is neglecting its responsibility to the people of Australia if it does not do so, because if the question of jurisdiction to operate in this area is not settled numbers of people in this country will be done irreparable harm. 
I want to say this while I have the opportunity: The first fatal accident connected with drilling for oil off-shore in Australia that I can recall occurred in 1967 at a well drilled by the WoodsideBurmah Company ofT Ashmore Island. The dependants of that worker have not yet received workers compensation. In fact, workers compensation has not been paid to any diver operating in the waters around Australia. 
There are various reasons. I was talking the other day to divers who came to see me and even they were not quite sure of the place of their engagement. They did not know where to take action. It is not a sufficient answer to say- I hope I do not name anyone wrongly, but I think it was  Mr Murray  of Victoria who said it- 'They can take action in this court, and if this is not the right court they can go to another court'. Workers and their dependants- in particular, their dependants- should not be put in that position in order to obtain their rights. 
I understand that the Professional Divers Association has sought legal advice on the question. The company that employs the men is no longer resident in Australia. Honourable senators will remember that during the hearing of the Committee, Divcon Australasia Pty Ltd moved its quarters to Singapore and it is still there. An opinion was expressed before the Committee that some of these diving contractors had their workers insured under American law. The only place, of course, where action can be taken under American law is in America. There is no court anywhere outside America that - 
-Hawaii is a State of America. There is no court outside America that can exercise American jurisdiction. In fact when Conciliation Commissioner Clarkson made an award he put into it a clause to protect workers for workers compensation. I do not know the validity of the award in the face of what Conciliation Commissioner Watson found at least Commissioner 
Clarkson made an award for the off shore areas of Victoria. Not only was the question of where action should be taken to protect these people involved but also at that time the Victorian law contained a provision that workers earning more than $6,000 a year were not classified as workers. As the divers were paid more than $6,000 a year they did not come within the jurisdiction of the Victorian Act concerning workers compensation. This is the sort of position that honourable senators opposite must face up to when they look at this legislation and determine whether or not they are prepared to support it. We cannot continue in this state of hiatus any longer, not knowing who has what. The sooner this matter is cleared up the better. 
One other thing which I wish to say is that the legislation that was passed came into operation on 1 April 1968. Under the provisions of that legislation permits for areas of 10,000 square miles were issued. Permits had been issued for larger areas for a much longer period. In fact Western Australian Petroleum had had permit areas in offshore Western Australia since 1951. Next year and early in 1975 half of these areas will become subject to surrender. The Commonwealth Government should administer those areas that are surrendered and it should not be left to the States to dish them out as they like and perhaps even give them back to the people who have not explored the areas while they have had the permits. 
-That is qualified, as the honourable senator well knows. I do not know whether the qualification has been used, but the qualification is there. My allotment of time is running out and I urge the Senate to pass this legislation for the Australian Government to have sovereign jurisdiction in the areas from the low water mark to the continental shelfwhatever that may be because there is still a United Nations conference on it. Whatever the sovereign jurisdiction it should reside in this place. I ask honourable senators to give urgent consideration to not delaying this measure. Let us get it on the statute books and let the States challenge and let the High Court decide the issue for us. We are not capable of deciding the issue for ourselves. 
by leave- Pursuant to the resolution of the Senate this day instructing Estimates Committee F to consider further the particulars of proposed expenditure for 1 973-74, 1 now inform the Senate that it has been arranged that Estimates Committee F will meet next Tuesday night from 8 p.m. until 10 p.m. to complete its consideration of division 890, subdivision 2, 3 and 4, and division 891, which relate to the Department of Minerals and Energy. 
-I present the report of the Estimates Committee F on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1973-74, together with the Hansard report of the evidence taken and move: 
That the report be printed. 
I want to make some reference to paragraph 3 of the Committee 's report which states: 
The Committee further reports that it was unable to complete its examination of the Particulars of Certain Proposed Expenditure in respect of the Year ending on 30 June 1974 for the Department of Minerals and Energy, Division 890, Subdivision 1.- Plant and Equipment- Item 04 (purchase of pipes and associated equipment for the Moomba-Sydney Pipeline) $54,000,000; Sub-division 2-(for expenditure under the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Power Act) $13,100,000; Sub-division 3- (for expenditure under the Atomic Energy Act) $1,388,000; 4-(for expenditure under the Pipeline Authority Act) $107,000,000; and Division 891,-Other Services Item 01. (Coal Exploration) $ 1 ,000,000. 
The Committee examined the estimates for 2 departments on Monday, 12 November, from 2 p.m. until 6 p.m., and then from 7.30 p.m. until 10.30 p.m., and at that time it seemed it was unable to complete its examination of the matters referred to it. The Committee then adjourned. The Committee yesterday met to consider its report and approved of the report which I have presented. The matters that have not been completed will be completed in the Committee of the Whole. 
-I appreciate what  Senator Durack  wants to do. I am firmly of the opinion, having studied the way the proceedings went last Monday and in view of the opportunities that I gave for these Estimates to be considered, that any further consideration in Committee would be of no value. 
-One of  Senator Webster's  difficulties; even at question time, is that he never asks a question seeking information; he invariably asks a question with an eye on the next question he will ask. In Estimates Committees the information that he wants could be obtained by asking two or three direct questions. But he wanders around the place taking 20 questions to get to the point. It is a complete waste of time and this is where the proceedings are delayed. It is not a proper interrogation of the witnesses at all. The honourable senator does not look to where he wants to go. As I told him the other night when I was trying to force the examination through in order that he would be able to get where he wanted to go, and I knew where he wanted to go- to consideration of the pipeline authority- if he can waste time so can I. That is the only way I could deal with frivolous and repetitive questions. 
Yes. It is the only way, otherwise the honourable senator would still be going on the other matters. Had I not had to leave the Committee and put  Senator Wilkinson  in the Chair,  Senator Webster  would not have got even to consideration of the Pipeline Authority because I would not have let the Committee take item 04 with subdivision 4. 1 would have made the Committee deal with the other divisions first and would have deferred item 04. 
Because of the manner in which the Committee had conducted itself all day. The Committee commenced its work at 5 minutes past 2 o'clock and I would have been quite entitled within my powers as  Chairman  to have adjourned the Committee at 10 o'clock. Now  Senator Webster  challenges my right to adjourn the Committee at half past 10. 

 - Senator Webster did this morning. All that was wrong with  Senator Webster  was that he was not awake. 
The honourable senator did challenge my right to adjourn the Committee and had the numbers there to prevent me from adjourning it, but he woke up too late. He wants to come in here now and repair the damage. The Committee met at 5 minutes past 2 and I had a break at half past 4. Then there was the private meeting that I spoke about this morning. We went back at half past 7 and continued until half past 10. The notice calling the meeting which  Senator Webster  received said: 'I wish to remind you that Estimates Committee F is scheduled to meet between 2 p.m. and 10 p.m. on Monday 12 November 1973 unless otherwise ordered to consider the estimates for the Department of the Northern Territory and the Department of the Minerals and Energy'. I had already given the Committee, with  Senator Webster's  concurrence of course, an hour longer than the Committee was set down to meet for on that day. In addition to that I had to have in mind the resolution of the Senate- the Senate makes these resolutions itself- that the committees report to the Senate on or before 15 November 1973. What opportunity was there from half past 10 on Monday night to have another meeting? 
Maybe it is 2 days for  Senator Webster.  I do not know, but he might walk around the lobbies here doing nothing half the time. It was not 2 days of spare time for me. With that in view I thought that the Committee should not meet again.  Senator Webster  is not deprived of anything if the Committee does not meet again. 
It is not that honourable senators opposite want to investigate the estimates, it is that they want to interrogate the public servants. Is that what they want? 
It is not the appropriations that honourable senators are worried about, the $ 160m-odd they talk of; it is the interrogation of public servants. 
All I can say to  Senator Young  is that the Opposition has successfully buried the Estimates Committees. 
The Opposition may have the numbers but numbers do not mean anything in this situation. We do not have to provide background notes, we do not have to provide officers and we do not have to provide Ministers. Honourable senators opposite can move all the motions themselves but we on this side do not have to put anyone on the Committees. That is the situation that the Opposition has successfully brought about. It has destroyed probably the most valuable asset of an opposition that this Senate has had and if I have any say in my Party that is what it will be. 
I do not get angry with  Senator Webster  over this matter. He is entitled to come in here and say what he likes but he should be fair in what he says. I did my best to get the consideration of the Estimates through but there was no co-operation. I was not prepared to continue to sit without co-operation.  Senator Webster  knows what I am referring to. I do not want to go into the matter in any depth but he knows the situation that was applying to the Estimates Committee at the time. I do not think that any useful purpose will be served by sending this matter back to the Estimates Committee. I am firmly of the belief that we will not get these Estimates considered by the Estimates Committee and that on 22 November we will be in the same position that we are in today. The investigation of the appropriation for the Pipeline Authority will not have been passed or, I should say, noted. The appropriation is not passed by the Committee, the Committee only takes note of it. Following the interjection of  Senator Durack  I now realise what is required of these Estimates Committees. No date is suggested when the Committee might meet. As the report has been presented, I do not know whether the officers can be made available. 
I do not know whether they would be available then, or when they would be available. That is something which the relevant Minister would have to tell me. The officers are made available over a certain period when meetings are called. Some of them have to come long distances to attend. They have other commitments. They were aware that this report had to be presented by today. I do not know their commitments. I do not know whether we can get them back. Over the period that the Estimates committees are operating there is a responsibility on the Government to make departmental officers available. If the Senate now decides that Estimates Committee F shall sit again, I suppose that in conformity with that resolution the Government would have to do something to make officers available. I do not know whether we would get the appropriate officers. 
I do not have much more to say about  Senator Durack  's motion. If the Senate decides to reconstitute the Committee to consider the estimates which have not been considered fully up to date- there has been about one hour's consideration of the Pipeline Authority and I do not know how much longer members of the Committee want; then there are other matters to be consideredI would like some formal notice of when the Committee is to meet. I live 2,500 miles from Canberra. I give up a lot of time to attend to the business of the Senate. I would want to know when I am required to be in Canberra for this meeting. The matter is not quite as easy as everyone thinks. In view of the way honourable sentors opposite have been performing to date, I do not think that we would be able to deal with the matter on Tuesday morning. That is my considered opinion. We cannot sit on Wednesday morning because I am not available to chair a meeting then. I have a Caucus meeting to attend, and I will attend it. That leaves Thursday. 
-AU these things have to be taken into consideration. Unless honourable senators opposite have something of substance and something more than they have been asking the witnesses to date, I do not think that the recall of the Committee to consider these estimates would serve any purpose. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Right Honourable J. G. Gorton, while Prime Minister, on 5 May 1970, announce that a Royal Commission had been appointed to inquire into any damage that might occur to the Great Barrier Reef, as a result of oil exploration in that area. 
When did the Commission first meet. 
How many meetings has it had. 
Has it yet made a report, interim or otherwise; if not, when is a report expected. 
) What has been the cost of the Commission to date. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is it a fact that since the commencement of production of natural gas from Bass Strait the previous Government allowed the export of 8 million barrels of liquid petroleum gas from that area? Does that quantity represent approximately 4 years' supply of Australia's requirements? 
In accordance with the resolution of the Senate of 1 5 September 1973, I present the report of Estimates Committee F relating to the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1973-74, together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
We have just heard an impassioned speech from an honourable senator who, most of the time, would not even know whether he was in Canberra. He talked about the Australian Labor Party seeking a referendum on price control. How can the honourable senator stand in this place and say that there has not been price control in Australia over the last 25 or 30 years? Of course there has been price control. But it has not been a control in the interests of the people; it has been control in the interests of monopolies and international cartels. It has been in their interest that price control has been imposed. I do not want to spend much time on this matter. The honourable senator talked about Caucus. If he knows anything about the Parliament he knows what Caucus is. But he was reared in the era of dictatorship. Who wrote the Menzies book about dictators, the belief in Cabinet government and the belief that back benchers should not have any say in government? That is the role which this honourable senator comes to Canberra to perform. He wants to sit in his seat and take no part in government. That is the role that he wants to perform. The motion before the Senate for discussion states: 
The rapidly growing concentration of excessive and arbitrary power in Canberra by the Federal Labor Government. 
The Constitution was written by the fathers of this Federation back in the 1890s. It is the Constitution which governs this Parliament, the Senate and the House of Representatives. If anyone talks about excessive and arbitrary powers let him stand up and say where this Constitution has been contravened. It has not been contravened at all; if it was, these people who talk about concentration of power and arbitrary power would have an action in the High Court within 5 minutes. Everything which the Labor Party Government has done- and it has done it for the benefit of Australia- has been within this Constitution and under the powers given, in the main, 70 years ago. There have been some slight alterations to the Constitution by the people and not by anyone else. Yet the Opposition says that we are using excessive and arbitrary powers. These are the powers, old as they are, which we are exercising and under which we are governing. So it is complete and utter rot for members of Parliament to say that we are using excessive and arbitrary powers. We are using the powers which were given to us and we will continue to use those powers and to extend them as far as the Constitution will allow in order that the Australian people may have good and active governmentnot a government of the kind they have had over the past 23 years. 
You are always talking about rubbish, senator. The only good thing about you is that on 30 June you will be rubbish. You will be out of this place. Your history in this place will be written forever.  Senator Durack  talked about a one-third deposit on foreign money coming into this country. 
Yes, foreign money coming into this country. The honourable senator knows as well as anyone else that the open door policies of McMahon, Gorton, Holt and Menzies were the reasons why these monetary policies had to be adopted- there had to be a brake on the ownership of Australia. I can remember sitting in this place on many occasions and listening to the Opposition. If someone outside said something about the Australian Labor Party it asked: 'Who governs Australia?' But none of the honourable senators ever thought about who owned Australia. Today they still do not think about who owns Australia. When  Senator Durack  stood up to move this motion he was nothing more than the mouthpiece of  Sir Charles  Court, the great development man built up in Western Australia. He is the great man who took advantage of the lifting of the embargo on the export of iron ore. He did not have one thing- not one thing- to do with the development of Western Australia. It was the lifting of the embargo on the export of iron ore and nothing else which gave Western Australia its boost in development. 
I was rather surprised that  Senator Durack  did not attack the oil industry. But he did go so far as to attack the Labor Party for its refusal to allow farm-ins in exploration permit areas in Western Australia. He said that it was this action by the 
Labor Party- although  Mr Connor  got the credit for it- which was stopping the exploration development of oil in Australia. Let us understand a couple of things about this matter. If the honourable senator does not understand then I propose to tell him. Of the off-shore areas in Western Australia West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd has 63,000 square miles to explore. Woodside-Burmah has 104,000 square miles to explore in Western Australia and 36,000 square miles in the adjacent Northern Territory area. Esso-BHP has 63,000 square miles to explore in the Bass Strait. Because of a royal commission into what damage may be done to the Great Barrier Reef, no permits have been let in the adjacent area of Queensland although some drilling did take place previously. All I ask  Senator Durack  to tell me is this: Where do you put a hole and how do you explore if you do not have acreage to explore? This is the whole point. In the period way back to 1951 the States gave these great areas to the oil monopolies of the world and there is nowhere for anyone else to explore until probably the end of next year when these companies have to start relinquishing half of their permit areas. Then we will see some exploration because there will be acreages for people to explore. At the present time all the prospective areas of Australia are held by the oil monopolists of the world. 
In Western Australia it was done by the McLarty- Watts Government. The honourable senator would not understand what I am saying because he does not travel far enough. In Victoria it was done by conservative governments. There has been nothing done in New South Wales. In Queensland it was done by Country Party governments. There is nothing much in South Australia and there is nothing much in Tasmania, as the honourable senator well knows. These areas were given away by conservative governments- the people that pandy to the international cartels who put funds into the Parties of the conservatives. I know that in 1949 one hundred thousand pounds was sent to the Liberal Party in Australia from the Conservative Party in England. This was the sort of foreign investment that the British Conservative Party believed in. They still believe in foreign investment. The Opposition still believes in that form of foreign investment. 
-I do not have to substantiate anything to you,  Senator. I  have said it in the world councils where I did not have privilege. 
-The only thing that is wrong about Ken Myer is that he advocated a change of government and the honourable senator has not yet come to realise that his Party is not in government. That is what this motion is all about. Honourable senators opposite cannot accept the fact that they are not still in government.  Senator Durack  was most surprised that the Labor Party would not continue with a proposition to put a tax on the gold mining companies. Why was he surprised about this? He was surprised because he would not be able to use it as a weapon against the Labor Party in the coming Senate election. He is not the least bit concerned about the gold mining industry. If he did not have a map he would not know where it was located. He is not the least bit concerned about it; he was concerned at the loss of the propaganda value of that proposition. To move this sort of motion which talks about concentrated excessive and arbitrary powers of government in Canberra and not be able to point to one instance where the Government has exceeded the powers given to it is complete and utter hypocrisy. 
It has been suggested that you withdraw your amendment to clause 5 because it would no longer be effective. 
Order! It being 4.30 p.m., pursuant to order, I leave the chair in order to report to the Senate. 
Order! The time allotted for the consideration of the Bill having expired, I put the question: 
That the Bill stand as printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
The question is: 'That the votes for departments in group E be now passed without request'. 
Are there any requests? There being no requests, I declare the vote passed. 
Proposed expenditure - Department of Science, $ 1 00,42 1 ,000-passed. 
Department  of the  Special Minister  of  State 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 4,370,000. 
Department  of  Foreign Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $ 124,736,000. 
Department of the Treasury 
Proposed expenditure, $ 157,723,000. 
Department of Services and Property 
Proposed expenditure, $60,284,000. 
Department of the Capital Territory 
Proposed expenditure, $22,880,000. 
Department  of  External Territories 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 93,932,000. 
The question now is that the votes in relation to the departments covered by group B be now passed. Are there any requests? There being no requests, I declare the votes passed. Is it the wish of the Committee that we should take the departments covered by group C together? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
Department of the Media 
Proposed expenditure, $90,040,000. 
Department of Social Security 
Proposed expenditure, $86,084,000. 
Department of Education 
Proposed expenditure,$14S,3Sl,000. 
Department of Tourism and Recreation 
Proposed expenditure, $4,758,000. 
Department of Immigration 
Proposed expenditure, $63,079,000. 
Postmaster-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 8, 170,000. 
Department of Health 
Proposed expenditure, $65,797,000. 
The question now is that the votes in relation to the departments covered by group C be now passed. Are there any requests? There being no requests, I declare the votes passed. 
Is it the wish of the Committee that we take the Departments covered by Group D together? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
Proposed expenditures- Repatriation Department, $507,387,000; Department of Defence, $36,837,000; Department of the Navy, $319,933,000; Department of the Army, $460,239,000; Department of Air, $352,284,000; Department of Supply, $129,457,000; and Department of Labour, $35,726,000-agreed to. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Did he have the opportunity last night of seeing the 7 p.m. television news service of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? If he did, did he notice that  Senator Rae  appeared on the service to comment on the education Bills that were at that time before the Senate and that no Government spokesman was given an opportunity to appear? Also, did he note that the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives appeared on the program to comment on Government policy, without the Government's being given the opportunity to comment? Will the Minister advise the Commission of its obligation to present a balanced and unbiased viewpoint with regard to political matters, and in future endeavour to present to the viewing public both sides of the political spectrum? 
Is it the wish of the Committee that the 2 amendments be taken together? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I wish to address myself to the motion moved by  Senator Milliner.  I clearly recollect what  Senator Webster  had to say. He quoted from a document or a letter sent to someone in Queensland by a British doctor and used it as an argument in defamation of a national health scheme. 
He quoted it as being from a doctor. The first question I wish to ask  Senator Webster  is whether the writer of the letter was a doctor of medicine. When I look at the plates outside the medical surgeries of the medical profession in Australia I find that the great majority of them are marked 'M.B. B.S.'. They are Bachelors of Medicine and Bachelors of Surgery and they pose themselves as doctors of medicine, which they are not. I quite assume that the person who wrote to the person in Queensland is also in that position. They are all disillusioning the public in presenting themselves as doctors of medicine. They are not doctors of medicine. I have tested this position in the courts and my case has been upheld. 
If  Senator Webster  wants to bring information in here and quote it as the opinion of a doctor in England let him stand up and substantiate that the person who wrote the letter was a doctor. He wrote to a person in Queensland.  Senator Webster  said it was a letter written by a doctor in England. Let him prove that the writer was a doctor. Let  Senator Webster  stand up and say so because I deny members of the medical profession the right to call themselves doctors without processing themselves through the proper examination. There are doctors in this gallery today and I say straight to them that they are misrepresenting their position to the public of Australia. 
-I would have been quite happy to speak after  Senator McManus  moved his amendment. I did not hear all of  Senator Greenwood's  remarks on this matter, but I have campaigned in quite a few Senate elections over the past few years and on each occasion I have heard the leaders of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party advocating votes for the Liberal Party and the Country Party and the leaders of the Australian Democratic Labor Party advocating votes for the DLP. Invariably in former years the word went out, particularly from the coalition parties, that the government should be able to govern, that it should have a majority in both Houses and that, therefore, the people should elect Government senators. That is the clearest argument I know for the abolition of the Senate. It has been said during the debate on these Bills, both last night and today, that the Senate's role is to be a supervisory role over the Government and that the Opposition in this place is not adopting an obstructionist attitude towards the elected government. The Government is formed in the lower House and not in this place, although I am fast coming to the conclusion that on 2 December 1 972 all that happened was that government was transferred from the House of Representatives to the Senate. If honourable senators opposite advocate votes for their candidates when they are in government on the basis that they should also have a majority in the Senate to be able to govern, why would they argue that the elections for the Senate and House of Representatives should not be held at the same time? I once appeared on a television program with a member of the Liberal Party, a member of the Australian Country Party and a member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. During that interview discussion took place at to whether the 2 elections should be brought together. A representative of the Liberal Party did not raise any objection to the 2 elections being brought together, but both the Democratic Labor Party representative and the Country Party representative were violently opposed to the suggestion. 
No, it was Edgar Prowse who was then a senator. They were violently opposed to the 2 elections being brought together. Why? Do they want to adopt one policy for an election of the House of Representatives and another policy for an election to the Senate, or do they want an elected government to be supervised by a Senate, or half of a Senate, that was elected 3 years earlier, not on the issues that were current at the time the Government was elected? 
The people are heartily sick of elections and  Senator Little  knows it. If this question went to the people tomorrow they would show that they want the 2 elections brought together, but it is the selfish attitude of the minority parties that makes them want the 2 elections divided. They know that they cannot put up an acceptable policy to the people of Australia that would win them seats in the lower House and in the Senate. The reason they want the elections divided is that under the system of proportional representation the Senate is a haven for minority parties. 
No, frankly. I am a believer, and am prepared to stand in my place and say it, that the 2-party system of government is the best system of government in the world. The 2-party system is the most stable system of government today.  Senator Carrick  sits in this chamber and smiles, but he knows as well as I know how the Liberals' tail has been wagged by the minority in the Country Party and the minority in the Democratic Labor Party. The minority parties wagged the tail; the Liberals have had to dance to their tune. Under this system of fragmentation of representation in the Parliament one gets a state of instability. This has been proved right throughout history. What is the position in Italy today? What was the position in France before De Gaulle abolished the Constitution? There is no question about the 2-party system and I stand for it. I had passed through the organs of the Australian Labor Party at one time a resolution that the Australian Labor Party should give its preferences to the candidate representing the Liberal Party before giving them to the candidate representing any other Party. That was designed to create a 2-party system. Honourable senators should not get any wild ideas about what I mean. I mean exactly what I have said. I see no room in the democratic system for a heap of minority parties and for a great deal of instability in government. This is what happens now. 
I suppose that sort of stability is the goal of all of us. It is inevitably the place that we must go to, so one day we will get stability. Of course, it is always said that the good die young, but then I look across the table at the Opposition. 
I do that every morning, and I can stand up and look in it every morning. Part of my philosophy of life is that I have to be able to look at myself every morning. The simple fact is that the Opposition Parties do not want the elections brought together because it does not advantage them. These are the 2 rump parties that I talk about. It does not advantage them to contest an election on the basis of a national policy. When we have the elections divided they can say anything they like because when they are asking for senators to be elected they know that they have no responsibility for government. They will not be responsible for government. But they wag the tail of the majority party in the Opposition, and so can come along to this place and implement at least one part of their policy. 
I think  Senator Negus  is a realist, having been in Canberra for 3 years now, he realises that he is probably here for one term only. 
Even  Senator McManus  was defeated once. 
You might be in some bother this time. I think you will be leading a further reduced minority party after 30 June. After 30 June we will hear again the wise words that we heard after a previous Senate election when  Senator Cole  announced that he would be the leader of the Democratic Labor Party,  Senator McManus  would be the  Deputy  Leader, and the Whip was yet to come. After 30 June it could be that only  Senator McManus  and  Senator Gair  will be here. So the numbers will be reduced. Anyway, it is my hope that that is what will happen. The sheet that has been circulated showing the proposed amendment that is to be moved by  Senator McManus-  although it does not say that it is to be moved by him- states firstly: 
The proposal contained in the Bill would destroy the independence of the Senate and thus weaken the Federal structure. 
I think the central question to be asked about this is: Because of the number of years when the 2 elections were held together, is it now said that the Federal structure was weakened and that it has been strengthened only since 1963 when the 2 elections were put out of alignment? Is that what the amendment means? For 60-odd years when the elections were in conformity with each other was there a weak system of Federal Government? Is that what it means? The proposed amendment goes on to state: 
Six-year terms for senators could be reduced to less than 18 months by mid-term dissolutions of the House of Representatives emanating from internal differences in that House such as occurred in 1929 7 months after the first meeting of the House of Representatives. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order! This amendment has not as yet been moved. Basically it is not yet before the Senate but you are developing arguments about it. You may develop those arguments after the amendment has been moved. 
I am not saying anything about the amendment. I am speaking only about the reasons given on the sheet why the amendment will be moved. I am arguing about the reasons, not the amendment. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- You might bear with me and perhaps come back to it at a later stage. 
-All right,  Mr Deputy President.  I bow to your ruling. In other circumstances I might disagree with it. I do not know why the terms of senators should not be related to the terms of members of the House of Representatives. After all, how many short terms have there been in the 74 years of federal government? The reference in the amendment- I will not quote it- is 1929. Then we come to 1963. In discussions some people in the Liberal Party have talked about double dissolutions to bring the 2 elections together again and all these sorts of things. The Liberal Party has talked about the requirement for an amendment to the Constitution to bring them into line.  Mr Menzies,  as he was at the time, did not think there was a requirement for an amendment to the Constitution to take the House of Representatives out on its own. It is true that the Government could at any time bring the elections together. When a Senate election is due it could decide at that time to dissolve the House of Representatives and take half the Senate out with it. 
I suppose every day one gets out of bed and starts to walk around the place one shows courage. The simple facts are that the political parties go to the people with a program for which they want to be elected. The party elected usually implements that program in a period of 3 years, the normal life of a Parliament. It does not expect to have to have this courage to go out. I personally am not satisfied, and the media will not convince me, that the Labor Party could not win a House of Representatives election if it went out on the hustings tomorrow. I think it could. All these people who like to believe in the latest poll results must be very naive because as far as the DLP may have sunk in the minds of the Australian voting public, I do not believe that it has slipped to one per cent. 
That is why I say that one cannot believe the gallup polls. In a little while perhaps when they lift the DLP to 5 per cent,  Senator McManus  will start to believe them. 
You do not believe them now but in a little while you will. I do not see any reason why the Constitution should not be amended to bring the 2 Houses into line and for half the Senate to retire at the time of each House of Representatives election. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  There is considerable interest in this matter. I think the senator who led for the Opposition roamed over quite a wide area. I believe  Senator Cant  is in order. It would appear to me that provided he does not refer to points set out in the proposed amendment, he can roam as he will. 
I do not see any reason why the resolution should not be carried to allow the matter to be dealt with. Perhaps, the substance of the Bill would be better debated at a later stage. I would like to debate it subsequent to the discussion on the amendment that  Senator McManus  proposes to move. 
-( Western Australia)-  Mr President,  I bring up the report of the Commonwealth of Australia Branch delegation to the Nineteenth Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference held in London in September 1973 and ask for leave to move a motion in relation thereto. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks on the resumption of the debate. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not a fact that when the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  negotiated a price of $2.06 per barrel for crude oil in Australia it was stated to be equal to world parity price? Were the negotiations between Esso and the then Prime Minister only? Did  Dr Hunter  of the Australian National University at that time criticise the price of $2.06 per barrel as being too high, and did he suggest that the correct world parity price was $ 1.70 per barrel? Did the then manager of Esso, when challenged about the high price which was agreed to, state that Esso 'was going to make a handsome profit, and we're not ashamed of it'? 
-Will the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs inform the Senate of details of the amounts of money allocated to the Western Australian Government during the year 1972-73 for Aboriginal education in that State? Was the amount allocated to Western Australia increased during the 1973-74 financial year in line with the Labor Government's promise to increase the funds made available to that State for Aboriginal education? 
We have just heard one of the most amazing speeches from a gentleman who purports to know all about the things about which he talks. He said that Australia had a viable oil exploration industry which the Australian Labor Party Federal Government has reduced to a stagnant exploration industry. This is one thing about which he does not know anything. If there is a stagnant oil exploration industry in Australia today it is as a result of the activities of the multinationals, which is the theme upon which he finished his speech. The most prospective areas in which petroleum products might be found in our part of the world are the off-shore areas. Of the off-shore areas of Western Australia, WoodsideBurmah Oil N.L. holds leases for 140,000 square miles, West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd holds leases for 60,000 square miles, and a few smaller companies hold leases for the rest. If there is no exploration in this area it is as a result of the activities of Woodside-Burmah and West Australian Petroleum, in the main, not as a result of anything that this Government has done. If there is no exploration in Bass Strait it is because of the activities of Esso BHP. In that area the company holds leases for 63,000 square miles. There is one other area in Australia which the geologists claim is highly prospective, and that is the off-shore area of Queensland. Exploration of that area is being held up at present pending a report from a royal commission appointed on 5 May 1 970. Until just before Christmas it had cost $1.3m, and no report. The non-activity in that area is caused by a policy of conservation to see what might happen to the Great Barrier Reef if oil exploration is allowed in this area.  Senator Carrick  can judge for himself whether the oil which may be found there- I emphasise the word 'may'- is of greater value to Australia and the world than the Great Barrier Reef. We await with some anxiety the report of the royal commission. 
Throughout Australia there is constant agitation for an increase in the price of indigenous crude oil. The price was negotiated by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  and Esso. No other oil producing company in Australia- West Australian Petroleum or the Queensland producerswere consulted about the price. It was determined at $2.06 a barrel for 5 years, with the right of exclusive entry into the Australian market for 10 years. It was the exclusive entry into the Australian market which induced Esso-BHP to accept the price of $2.06.  Dr Hunter  of the Australian National University said at that time that the world parity for oil was not $2.06 a barrel but $ 1 .70 a barrel. Do honourable senators know the remarks of the manager of Esso when he was questioned about the high price which was being paid for Australian oil?  His  statement is on record. He said: 'We are going to make a handsome profit, and we are not ashamed of it'. Today the position is different. The price of oil in other parts of the world has risen. It is not because of inflation that world oil prices have risen; it is not because of increased costs, because costs have fallen; it is because the Arab nations have suddenly realised the value of their product. They have suddenly realised that all the goods they want to buy from other people in the world are being sold to them at inflated prices, yet the rest of the world wants to take their product at bargain basement prices. This is why the price of 011 has increased. 
Can we blame them? We want to sell our wool, our wheat, our meat and all the things that we produce at the highest price that we can possibly get. Why should other nations not want to sell to us at the highest price they can get for their goods? What is wrong with their taking advantage of a market situation? Is that not the thing about which honourable senators on the other side of the chamber constantly boast- the free trade of the market, free enterprise and the gathering of whatever the market can afford? Is that not the basis of the philosophy of honourable senators opposite- whatever the market will afford? The market will afford whatever the Arabs ask for their oil or the buyers do not get it. 
I agree that they used their oil in international relations. Nevertheless, they are not the only ones to use such tactics. We have only just come out of the gun boat era. It is not so long ago that British war vessels were sailing up the river at Shanghai. We are not very far out of the gun boat era. This sort of force has been used to satisfy international relations over a number of years. I say quite frankly that the conflict in the Middle East will not be settled until Israel draws back to the boundaries of 1967. The wars in the Middle East will not stop while nations are able to gain territory by force of arms. When countries can be stopped from gaining territory by force of arms there will be some chance of gaining peace in this world. But peace will not be gained while nations can gain by force of arms. 

 Senator Carrick also said that we have 400 years supply of steaming coal in Australia. That is rather a broad statement which says nothing. It does not say what amount of coal we have. It does not say how much we will use. The honourable senator predicted that perhaps by the end of the century fossil fuels will be antiques and that coal will be something that will be put in a museum to look at. If that is so, what do we want with 400 years of steaming coal because in 25 years we will not need it.  Senator Carrick  cannot have it both ways. I say to him frankly that he draws the long bow when he starts to talk in these terms. I did not hear him saying anything about coking coal although he did say that he could not see any plan or policy on the production of steel without coking coal. The Australian Labor Party has no plan or policy. But the honourable senator did not say anything about this matter. He did not say anything about the 24,000 million tons of coking coal which we have in Australia and of which we can recover only 13,000 million tons. 
The honourable senator does not say anything about the stupidity and inefficiency of private enterprise which leaves 50 per cent of our coking coal in the ground and which will continue to do so not in the interests of Australia but in the interests of profit. The easily won coal is taken out; the rest is left there and it can never be recovered.  Senator Webster  talked about the inefficiencies of socialism. There are many inefficiencies but most of them lie at the door of private enterprise. I have given the Senate an example in relation to 50 per cent of our coking coal. Australian resources are left in the ground by the inefficiencies of private enterprise. I can give honourable senators a lot of other instances of how private enterprise is so inefficient and before I sit down I may do so. 
Both  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Webster  talked about socialism and nationalisation without attempting to define what they meant. It is a very nice thing for people to stand up and talk about capitalism, socialism and nationalisation and not know what they are talking about. Will an honourable senator opposite stand up in his place one of these days and tell me what this Bill means in terms of socialism? What is socialism? Have honourable senators fostered socialism at all? Do they call Trans-Australia Airlines a socialist industry? Do they call aviation a socialised industry? Where does one draw the line? What is socialism? Why did not the previous Government dispose of socialist enterprises for which honourable senators opposite say so much hate exists in this country? I know that some have been disposed of. A Liberal-Country Party Government disposed of the Nor-West Whaling Company when it was making a 40 per cent profit. 
It did not dispose of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. It was put in handcuffs and balls and chains and strangled until it became almost inoperative. Why was this done? It was because the international pharmaceutical industry wanted the market. How much did this industry put into the coffers of the Liberal Party to get the market? That is something we do not know. Certainly when  Senator Wade  was Minister for Health he made the pharmaceutical companies refund £4m which was the amount they had overcharged the Federal Government for penicillin. That is only one instance which was exposed in the Senate. This is the so-called private industry which honourable senators opposite support all along the line. I come back to the industry and its efficiencies in which my friend  Senator Webster  is involved. That is the timber industry. I think  Senator Cotton  is also engaged in it. In the past that industry has been one of the most inefficient industries which has operated in this country. Why do honourable senators think that we must have forestry inspectors going into the forests and marking the trees which they will allow to be cut and marking the direction in which the trees shall be felled? It is because in the past the timber merchants went into our forests unconcerned about conservation. They were concerned only with exploitation. Laws had to be introduced to allow the conservation of these resources of Australia. Honourable senators talk about the inefficiencies of socialism. I suggest that they go up to the great mining ventures in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. 1 suggest that they get off the Mount Tom Price mine on to the Mount Newman mine which is substantially Australian owned; nevertheless, it is private enterprise. What do we find? We find that contracts have been let to sell high grade iron ore. The grade is anything from 62 per cent. There is an amalgan of ore because some of it is above 62 per cent and there is some mixing of the lower grades to bring it to an even grade of 62 per cent. Where this is not done some bonuses are paid and some penalties apply if it is below this grade. 
I do not agree with  Mr Connor's  calling iron ore operators hillbillies and ratbags, but I do say that they were completely inefficient when they wrote their contracts. I will not talk about writing contracts in American dollars because I think they were pretty well blackmailed into that. That was the only currency that the Japanese would accept at that time. The contracts should never have been written in dollars per ton. They should have been written in cents per unit; that is the Fe unit in the iron ore. In that way we would have received the full value of the ore which is shipped overseas. This is where I say the iron ore processors are completely inefficient. But we go a little bit further than that and we find that in America iron ore is mined with a grade of 23 per cent Fe. If honourable senators go into the Pilbara and have a look at the ore they will find that iron ore with a grade of 55 per cent is pushed onto the mullock dump as useless. This is an Australian resource which would be prized in any other country but private enterprise can afford to waste it. Let us have a look at production of iron ore- that which is used and that which is sold. Of the iron ore produced, 58 per cent is produced in fines. How many plants do we have in the northwest of Western Australia or for that matter in Australia, which can convert the fines into furnace feed? The answer is none of them. So, perforce, we must sell our iron ore fines to the Japanese at reduced prices. 
It is not so very long ago that the illustrious leader of the Australian Country Party,  Sir John  McEwan- I am not too sure whether he was  Sir John  at the time- prevented Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd from selling fines at less than world market prices. He refused to give them a permit to export the fines to Japan at 16c per Fe unit. In the 3 industries that I have mentioned to date we find out just how efficient private enterprise is, and they are industries with which this Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill is concerned. 
It is said that because of our situation with regard to petroleum we have to find ever so much more. Of course we have to find it. We have to explore to get it and we have to get some acreage in which people will be able to explore. 
Within the next 12 months half the areas now held by the international companies will revert to the Commonwealth Government. We passed through this place a law which gives the Commonwealth Government authority in the offshore areas. Despite what  Sir Charles  Court says, the surrendered areas will be surrendered to the Commonwealth Government. I hope that there never is another permit issued to explore for oil off the shores of Australia. 
I have talked to some of the multinationals. They are prepared to farm in with the Commonwealth Government, just as they were prepared to farm in with WoodsideBurmah on the north-west coast. It is on record, it is evidence, that they are prepared to farm in with the Australian Government. It does not mean that the Australian taxpayer will have to pay anything for oil exploration. There will be no huge wastes of money such as the $138m that has been paid up to date in oil search subsidies and the $400m that has been given to the oil companies as rebates of taxation. There will be nothing of that kind if we hold the permits and the multinationals farm in, do the exploration and find something that is economically viable, and then the taxpayers' money is put in and used to develop a paying proposition. Honourable senators cannot fault that sort of policy irrespective of the way they like to look at it. I hope that that will be the policy of the Australian Government. I think that the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  enunciated that policy on behalf of the Australian Government at the meeting of the Australian Mining Industry Council yesterday week. This is where honourable senators opposite get to when they start to criticise something which represents an endeavour to regulate the industry. 

 Senator Carrick stood up and talked about there being no policy in regard to quite a number of things. It takes time to develop policy. It took 23 years for the Liberal-Country Party coalition governments to develop nothing. They did not have a plan for anything. 
-Planning was anathema to them, and the honourable senator knows it. That was the case for 23 years. Yet the Liberal and Country Parties expect the Australian Labor Party to have all the plans made in 1 5 months. At the present time we have a . Pipeline Authority.  Senator Carrick  talked about the Government having no plans. It has plans to deliver gas to 
Sydney through a national pipeline authority. It has plans to deliver liquids to Redcliffs in South Australia for a petrochemical industry. This Party is not without plans, but they take time to develop. 

 - Senator Bonner had better not become involved too much in this subject. I think he knows very little about it, although he may know much about many other things. Planning always was anathema to the Liberal and Country Parties, but they expect us to walk in here with plans to do these things. 

 Senator Carrick also attacked the Australian Government over having no policy with respect to uranium. I think the Government has a very good policy with respect to uranium. It is to leave it in the ground until such time as we can get an economic price for it. We do not want to give it away. To sell today is to sell on a buyers ' market. We believe that by 1980 there will be a sellers' market. I think that the oil prices throughout the world might cause that time to be advanced a little further. Maybe there will be a sellers' market by 1978. 1 know that Spain is hawking a contract around at the present time. It wants to buy 30,000 tons of uranium and cannot get anyone to supply it. We are not the only people who are holding on to uranium resources. To listen to honourable senators opposite one would think that we were the only people in the world who were doing this sort of thing. The whole world trades in this manner all the time. 
Today there is an oil crisis. How did the Gettys and other people get their thousands of millions of dollars in the oil industry? They got it by taking the rich oil off the top and then walking out and leaving the oils wells. If one goes to America today one finds that other people are coming in behind them and using efficient methods of production to rework the old wells. How efficient is private enterprise? It took off the cream, the profits, and walked away and left the resources in the ground. Today those resources have to be recovered. Honourable senators opposite criticise the Australian Government over socialism. Private enterprise will not touch the social services such as power supplies, sewerage and water supplies. These are left for governments to operate because they are not profitable. Private enterprise always operates in this way. Honourable senators opposite say that if something is profitable it should be left to private enterprise. If something is a lemon they say that it should be given to the government. They then moan all the way to the Taxation Office about the amount of tax that has to be paid to keep these services going. This is the attitude of private enterprise thinkers. This is what they do all the time. 
When this Government starts to try to bring legislation forward as part of a plan to regulate industry, as part of a plan which was criticised by  Senator Carrick,  it is accused of becoming the great monolith and of being the people who are going to gobble up everything in the world. As I said earlier, I invite honourable senators opposite to define what they mean by socialism. Let us have clearly stated what they mean by socialism. Do they mean that we take a monopoly of industry? Do they mean that we take only part of industry and operate in competition with private industry, as we do in the case of the airlines and as we did with Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd, Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd the Nor-West Whaling Co. Ltd? The latter things I mentioned were all sold off to private enterprise because they might be profitable. When the Australian Government sold COR, who was the second biggest shareholder in the company that bought it, the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company Ltd? The British Government held 49 per cent. But selling that off was not socialism; it was or was likely to be profitable and therefore it had to be got rid of. It was said that the government should not have any profitable industry. When honourable senators opposite stand up I want them to define what they mean by socialism. Let us cut out all this silly talk about socialism and nationalisation. Let us see where honourable senators opposite stand and what they do mean. Let them stand up in their places and tell us which industries in Australia have been nationalised. The Australian Chamber of Manufactures said that it was socialism where government had a monopoly or a dominating influence in an industry but that where government operated in competition with private enterprise it was not socialism. It is on record as having said that. I ask honourable senators opposite to stand up and tell the Senate what they mean because this legislation does not involve socialism or nationalisation. It is a plan for the control of Australia's resources, a plan that we should have. The sooner we have it the better Australia will be pleased. 
I did not hear all that went on but I am aware of what did occur in Western Australia a week ago last Monday. It is said that farmers were not the cause of the demonstration. I ask you,  Mr President,  to look at the advertisements in the organ of the Farmens Union, "The Farmers Weekly', inviting people to come to Perth for a meeting of farmers at Subiaco. 
I have read it. The honourable senator does not have to inform me. I might inform him before I am finished. The farmers who come to Perth came with prepared plackards. They knew long before that  Mr Whitlam  would not be at the Subiaco Oval meeting. 
Nevertheless,  Senator Reid,  they arrived at the Forrest Place meeting with placards bearing messages such as 'Get Gough 's Guts'. What was that if not inflamatory? What was it if not designed to incite the people to revolt?  Senator Reid  says that the farmers were not the cause of the demonstration. What excuses had the farmers given for demonstrating on the Causeway which has 3 lanes into the city of Perth and 3 lanes out? Three farmers parked their motor cars on the entrance to the city and lifted the bonnets of their cars to disrupt traffic. Having done that, they turned at the end of the Causeway and went back over the Causeway again to disrupt traffic. Following that, in order to disrupt traffic, they drove a tractor over the Causeway in low gear. They were not prosecuted for disrupting the traffic. I can remember when, if one stood alone on the footpath outside a TAB agency, whether one was interested in betting or not, one was charged with disrupting the traffic and fined £20. But these hooligans who come to the city can disrupt the whole of the traffic and have nothing done to them. These are the tactics which the stormtrooper supports and I say it quite confidently. These are the tactics which the honourable senator supports. 
The honourable senator supports the suppression of freedon of speech. A rowdy mob may support the suppression of free speech. But they did not stop at that; they cut the wires of the loudspeakers to prevent the Prime Minister of Australia being heard. This stormtrooper supports that action. He supports suppression of free speech. He should never have been in this place. If the tactics used by  Sir Robert  Askin in New South Wales had been used in the appointment of the honourable senator to this place by the Western Australian Government he would not be here.  Senator James  McClelland 's appointment to this place was held up for 3.5 months 
Let us get back to Subiaco and the empty chair. I will tell the honourable senator a little bit about Subiaco. We were all issued with invitations to attend at Subiaco. I did not accept the invitation because I knew that I would not be heard.  Senator Wilkinson  accepted the invitation,  Senator Sim  accepted the invitation and  Senator Reid  accepted the invitation. The honourable senator knows what happened at Subiaco. It was announced that  Senator Wilkinson  had accepted the invitation, lt was announced that  Senator Sim  had accepted the invitation, and he was welcomed.  Senator Reid  had accepted the invitation, and he was welcomed. But a member of the Farmers' Union who accepted the invitation was not welcomed because he was a member of the Australian Labor Party. The honourable senator wants to know something more about Subiaco. The Farmers' Union is an organisation that purports to be non-political, but these are the tactics it adopts and these are the tactics that the stormtrooper supports. 
The honourable senator deliberately, as part of an organisation, fostered the disruption of the Prime Minister's meeting. I do not deny him the right to do that but I do deny him the right to suppress free speech. I did not see him out anywhere demonstrating against the loss of life in Vietnam. Where were the farmers then? All that the honourable senator did was demonstrate against money- not against life. Property is more valuable than life, that is the whole philosophy of the free enterprise movement. That is what the honourable senator supports and that is what he will be labelled with for the whole of the term that he remains in this Parliament. 
I have seen a lot of rubbish in my time and you are about the pick of it. The honourable senator comes in here stating that he supports the suppression of free speech. He is not going to tell me that the placards were prepared for the Subiaco Oval. They were prepared for Forrest Place and they were deliberately prepared to prevent the Prime Minister of Australia from having a free say. That is the label that will stay with the honourable senator for the rest of his term in this Senate, however long that may be. I think it may not be very long. I think that the Western Australian people will have had enough of storm troopers. They do not want any more. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether he will supply the Senate with details of the amount of money provided for Aboriginal health in Western Australia. For comparison purposes I desire the figures for health assistance for Aboriginal people in Western Australia for the financial years 1972-73 and 1 973-74 respectively. 
