1 am deeply conscious of the honour which the electors of Petrie have placed on my shoulders in sending me to this House. I would be remiss if I did not pay a tribute at this early stage to the previous occupant of this seat. I was a boy in primary school when  Sir Alan  Hulme won the seat of Petrie shortly after the War.  Sir Alan  held that seat for over 20 years and gave unparalleled service to the people of Petrie. Not only did he do that; he achieved distinction in Parliament and rendered great service to the country as a Minister of State. 1 hope that the people of Petrie will continue to send me to this place so that I may emulate  Sir Alan's  long period of service and also retire from this House after an equally long tenure of the seat with the goodwill of the people whom I have represented for that time. 
The Governor-General's Speech which was delivered last Tuesday was an interesting document. It contains for the most part slogantype promises which give nothing but the bare bones of what is proposed in the legislative programs to be placed before the House. If one looks at it casually one might be forgiven for saying that a few years ago this speech would have been made in a State parlia ment, because most of the matters of substance which are referred to in it are matters for which the Constitution gives responsibility primarily to the States. But be that as it may, the performance of the Government in delivering the goods, as it were, on its promises in the fields of domestic policy, particularly those related to urban development and urban growth, housing, transport and education will determine whether it survives for another term. It would have been better, I think, had the Governor-General prefaced his remarks by giving us some indication of the definition of terms to be used in his speech, because one notices that it gives repeated reassurances that the Commonwealth Government is to cooperate with the States; that it will co-operate with local government authorities; that it will co-operate with private schools; that it will co-operate with everybody. I have never got the word in my electorate that the Australian Labor Party was wedded to the idea of federalism; yet so much emphasis is placed on it in the Governor-General's Speech that it leads one to believe that we are entering a new era in which co-operation means something different from what we have expected in the past. 
If we look at the action of this Government since it took office a few months ago co-operation may mean: 'If you do nol do what you are told you will not get any money.' In fact in Queensland we have had ample demonstrations of this up to date. We had an instant meddling by the Commonwealth in the affairs of the territorial confines of Queensland very shortly after the election. We had in addition a situation fairly recently in which the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  virtually threatened the people of Queensland with a loss of a substantial grant of money if they did not be quiet and take the Government on its face value. This is the sort of blackmail that I suspect we will see from the Government in the future. I need only remind the House that it was a great Queenslander,  Sir Samuel  Griffith, who drew up the Federal Constitution, and the reasons for drawing a Federal Constitution are as valid today as they were in 1901. I need only refer to the fact that the Sassenachs south of the Tweed occupy 79 seats in this House as against 18 for Queensland. We have difficulty even in getting adequate representation in sporting teams. Honourable members will find many people in Brisbane who will tell them that national rugby league teams are decided on the basis of State bias, with the predominance going to New South Wales. So if that is the position in the field of sport how much more so must it be in the field of politics? The representation of New South Wales in the new Labor Government would indicate that Queensland can expect nothing from this Government except the raw prawn. 
I now turn to just one or two of the domestic policies which are briefly outlined in the Governor-General's Speech, and I turn first to the proposals on housing. As I have said, the Speech gives us nothing of the details. We have to read the newspapers to find out the intentions of the Government in the field of housing. But if we look at what the Government says in the Speech we see that it is to make money available for the States to provide leasehold houses. There were various other proposals put during the election, in Queensland at any rate, that led one to believe that the whole emphasis of this Labor Government was to be towards leasehold of land and homes rather than purchase. If you want to go on a tour of my electorate I can quite readily point out to you those homes which are leased from either the Queensland Housing Commission or private landlords because they are readily identifiable from their state of dilapidation and the rack and ruin that the gardens and the yards have gone to. If one looks at the experience of other countries, particularly the United Kingdom, where council houses have been a problem to local councils and national government alike for many, many years, it seems strange that at a time when everybody else in the world is moving away from leasehold tenure of houses as a solution to the housing problem this Government should make a giant step in that direction. After all, money paid for rent is dead money. I do not care,  Sir, whether  you say that people want to rent homes that they can afford because their purse cannot afford the deposit to purchase a home. It is well known that, if a person applies to the Queensland Housing Commission for a rental home and establishes his reliability in paying the rent over a period of time, and if he continues to occupy that home until he has paid in rent an amount equivalent to the deposit that is necessary, he can convert to purchasing the home. That seems to be a much more desirable solution than the course charted by the Government in simply providing leasehold houses ad nauseam for people, because the largest single investment of Australians is in their home and most people - even ordinary working people - look forward to their retirement in the knowledge that at least they will own the home in which they live. This Government would attack that principle and put young people into leasehold houses and keep them there during their working lives; and then in their retirement they would have nothing permanent that they could call their own. 
While on the matter of housing, I should like to refer to suggestions that have been made to lower the interest rate payable on home finance. It is well known that the majority of finance for homes presently is provided by building societies, which have to compete with other lending institutions. The success of building societies depends upon the ready availability of money to the depositor and also upon the return he receives on his money. It is not the large financier who invests in building societies; it is the average working man who puts his savings into a building society because of the interest rate, the security and the readily accessible nature of his investment. If the rate of interest on home loans is to be artificially lowered, the vast majority of small investors in building societies will withdraw their funds because they will find alternative avenues of investment which return them much more and the housing field will suffer a crippling loss. 
I should like to refer briefly to the matter of transport. This is something which concerns me very much because in my electorate we have a railway line which, under the n;:w proposals put forward by this Government, will be electrified. However, it is interesting to note that when the Prime Minister was  asked,  at a Press conference in Brisbane during the election campaign, what was his Party's policy on this matter, he told us that it was to electrify the railway in the northern corridor of Brisbane. Another questioner asked him where exactly was that corridor and the honourable gentleman did not know. Subsequently, in the Press, we were told that the Labor Government proposed to electrify 22 miles of railway in the northern part of Brisbane. Anyone who knows the northern part of Brisbane knows that Petrie, which is the end of the suburban line at present, is 16 miles from Brisbane; 22 miles of track would end up in the middle of nowhere. I hope that the Prime Minister has discovered exactly where the northern corridor of Brisbane is because I shall certainly be asking some questions about this matter at a later stage. The people in my electorate would certainly look forward to the provision of Commonwealth funds to assist in the electrification of the railway to Petrie. I also put forward a proposal to extend that railway line to Redcliffe, which is one of the largest residential areas adjacent to the Brisbane metropolitan area and which needs to be serviced by a railway. There is no railway to Redcliffe at the moment and the only means of access its residents have to the metropolis at present is over a somewhat antiquated highway. 
I should like to refer to the question of education and the proposals which were made in the Governor-General's speech. It appears to me that the Government has its priorities the wrong way round in regard to education. It proposes an immediate relaxation of fees paid by students to universities. The Government proposes to take over all fees and to abolish them as from the beginning of 1974. Of course, this will not solve the problem of quotas and the people who are available to be educated in universities. It simply means that those who are intelligent enough to matriculate - they may not always be those in the lower income brackets - will pay no fees. It is curious that, in this session of Parliament, the Government has introduced a Bill to lower the voting age to 18 years. One might be forgiven for thinking that the abolition of university fees is simply a shoddy, political trick to endear the Government to potential voters at the next election. 
As I said, the Government's priorities in regard to education appear to be wrong. If the Government wants to give equal opportunity in schooling to every child in Australia, it should concentrate on the primary field because it is there that the child takes his first steps up the education ladder. It is a well known statistical fact that 20 per cent of all primary school children have some specific learning defect, whether it is an inability to learn to read or an inability to do sums. However, only approximately 5 per cent have a severe learning difficulty. So, if these children are diagnosed early enough in primary school, they can be brought into the mainstream of education. Remedial teachers in primary school are vitally necessary if the Government is  to  implement its proposal  to  give genuine equality of opportunity to all children. If these children are diagnosed at that level of schooling they can proceed and learn as they move into the higher grades. If they are not diagnosed, it will be found that children will drop out of the educational stream because they just cannot cope with the information that is being thrust at them. We will have the drop-outs from high school who do not take advantage of the education system. So, I suggest that the Government has its priorities in the field of education the wrong way round. 
I now refer to the subject of local government. I was very interested to see the reference to this matter in the Governor-General's Speech. As an old shire councillor and one who has been thrust into this rapidly expanding urban situation in the Petrie electorate, I know very well the problems of local government. The problem is to find sufficient money to carry out all those works which are required in a modern community, such as underground drainage, sewerage, water reticulation, street lights, surfacing of roads and the provision of parks. All these mundane ma t-rs must be provided by local government and money must be found. During the election campaign, the Prime Minister visited both the local authorities in the Petrie electorate and made certain promises to them. He made promises of financial assistance of which I shall remind him in due course; I expect that some action will come from the appropriate department in this regard. 
It was interesting to note that in the Governor-General's Speech the only real proposal that was made to assist local government authorities was that they should be brought into the Loan Council, with a vote and a voice in the deliberations of that body. Are we to assume from that that what the Government is offering local authorities is loans? If that is so, then the Government is not going anywhere near meeting the problems that face local government. The problem of local government is to raise money. If a local authority is granted a loan, it must be repaid; and for every $50,000 worth of loan money which is raised by the Pine Rivers Shire in my electorate another cent in the dollar is added to the rates. So, this would seem to me to be a curious situation where the Federal Government is proposing to come into the field to assist local government in performing its functions adequately and the best that is being offered is simply a loan which will have to be repaid from the pockets of ratepayers. 
One might hope that the Government will come forward with a proposal of direct grants, but this again leads to a danger that is unexpressed in the Governor-General's Speech. If one takes the Speech at its face value, then we are to have a virile federal system. But if one looks outside the Speech,  at  the performance of the Australian Labor Party over the years and at its performance since it became the Government on 2nd December, it leads one to believe that what is going to happen is that there will be a heavy concentration of power in Canberra and decisions which should properly be made at the local level by local councils and by State governments will be made by public servants in Canberra and the money will be dished out in  Accordance  with their subservient attitudes. If this is the case, proposals implementing that scheme will find me an implacable foe. If on the other hand the Government proposes schemes which will assist in alleviating urban problems, if it also preserves the dignity of people at the local level in allowing them an opportunity to be creative and also to take the decision themselves without any undue pressure from the centre and if the Commonwealth proposes that that should be the situation and the Commonwealth should simply be the fund-raising body for these ventures, then it will have my support. 
Pear is expressed by many constituents in the Petrie electorate and other people in Queensland of the danger that their right to make decisions on matters affecting their personal lives will be transferred to Canberra. That situation will be a denial of the Constitution which, of course, apparently means nothing to the Government at the present time because it seems to have very little regard for it. The Government makes proposals without saying whether they are in conformity with the present Constitution. It may fairly be said that a constitutional convention is required to realign the responsibilities of State governments and local government with the available funds that they have to perform their tasks. I hope that in those deliberations the Commonwealth Government would approach the subject with a spirit of true federalism and would be prepared to make money available to local bodies without any strings attached so that they may make the decisions in the best interests of people in their areas. 
I wish to raise once again the question of the implications of the change in the guaranteed minimum wage levied in non-permanent ports by the Association of Employees of Waterside Labour. This question was raised in the adjournment debate last Tuesday week. During that debate the Minister for Labour put some facts before the House which I feel should be clarified at this point. I advised the Minister's office this afternoon that I proposed to raise this question once again in the hope that he might be present this evening. Unfortunately it appears that he will not come. The problem as it relates to Queensland ports is particularly important, because under the previously existing arrangements a uniform levy of 40c per man hour on labour working in ports all round Australia was imposed for the purpose of paying the minimum guaranteed wage to waterside workers in every port in Australia. 
The levy prior to the change was 40c per man hour. A change was made in this levy by the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour on5th March. That change was made to impose a higher levy on smaller ports and those ports which are generally what may be described as decentralised in country areas. The ones to which I draw attention tonight are the ports of Cairns and Mackay, both of which were mentioned by the Minister for Labour as being ports whose very existence would be jeopardised by the new rates. As I have said, the old rate was 40c per man hour, and it applied throughout the whole of Australia. Under the new scheme of things the port of Cairns is paying $1.50 per man hour, which is an increase of something like 200 per cent; the levy on the port of Mackay has been increased to $1 per man hour, which is an increase of something like 150 per cent. One does not have to be a mathematical genius to realise that this will impose considerable economic strains on the users of those ports, and the users of those ports are generally those engaged in primary exports in Cairns and Mackay. 
In his speech on Tuesday evening of last week the Minister for Labour incorporated in Hansard some letters which passed between him and the relevant Association of Employers. The Minister's letter which appears in Hansard was dated 23rd February 1973. In that letter he invited the Association to say what changes if any it thought should be made in the basis on which the stevedoring industry charge is levied. He invited it to submit its comments no later than 31st July 1973. The reply which the Minister received was dated 2nd March, and in that reply the Association said that a considerable amount of work had been done on the fourth point raised by the Minister, which was the question of replacing the levy, and would be considered when a further report and recommendations on funding were presented at its meeting the following week. That letter, I repeat, was dated 2nd March 1973. The change was made by the Association on 5th March 1973, some few days after the letter was sent to the Minister. 
In his speech on Tuesday evening of last week the Minister said that he had not been consulted about the change, that he did not have any prior knowledge of it at all. He expressed concern, particularly about the 2 ports in Queensland about which I am speaking tonight - the ports of Mackay and of Cairns. In his speech he said that the future of 5 ports, including the 2 I have mentioned, are clearly jeopardised. He went on to say that these ports provide a vital service to the hinterland in their region. He said also that he proposed to write the next day to the body concerned to see what could be done about it. I see that the Minister is now in the House, and I hope he will take the opportunity on the adjournment debate to inform the House of the steps he has taken and whether in fact he wrote the letter the day following the adjournment debate on Tuesday evening of last week and, if so, what progress he has made in returning the status quo of a uniform levy for ports throughout Australia. It would be too late, I suggest, to allow the matter to run on until 31st July this year. If changes are to be made the status quo should be restored until those changes have been properly investigated and discussed by the appropriate people concerned. This is a matter of vital importance if a system of decentralised ports is to be maintained. It is particularly important for Queensland, because with our long coastline we have many valuable ports, many ports on whose development many millions of dollars have been spent. To allow them to go by the board because of this change in the levy would, in my submission, be criminal. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to make money available to the Queensland Government to assist in providing an electric train service in Brisbane's northern suburbs. 
If so, has he bad any discussions with the Queensland Government to date. 
If discussions have not taken place, when does he anticipate they will take place. 
Will any proposed electric railway line terminate at Petrie or Caboolture. 
Will he give an assurance that, in considering proposals for such an electric railway, his Department will investigate the possibility of extending it to Redcliffe. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he ensure that, during sittings of the Parliament, all announcements of Government policy are made in the House, simultaneously with their release to the press, so that Members may, be informed of Government policy before reading about it in the newspapers. 
asked  the  Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Will the Minister give an assurance that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board will police the guidelines laid down by it in the Television Programme Standards booklet, particularly those dealing with sound and visual items in programs televised at times when the audience is likely to contain large numbers of children. 
Did the program 'A Current Affair', which is televised on Channel 9 in Brisbane on each week night from 7 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., contain segments on the following topics on the dates mentioned: 17th May 1972- "The Little Red School-book'- obscene words used 4th July 1972 and 19th July 1972- Explicit discussion of homosexuality 3rd August 1972 - A talk on live sex education for kindergartens and objectionable close-ups of breast feeding 17th August 1972 and 18th August 1972- Abortion 18th January 1973 - Explicit sex scenes. 
If so, will the Minister investigate these segments to determine whether the guidelines have been breached. 
What action is proposed to ensure that subsequent programmes of 'A Current Affair' do not offend in the same way. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Can he say whether there is an urgent need in Brisbane for pre-school centres catering for subnormal children. 
If so, what action is proposed by the Government to meet this need. 
Will the recently appointed Pre-Schools Committee consider the special problems of the subnormal child in making its report. 
I wish to say a few words about clause 55, the clause about which the Minister for Labour waxed so eloquent a few minutes ago. lt represents another part of the. plot by the Labor Government to destroy the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The protection it is now :oUght to afford to union officials and others for actions in tort is part of the general scheme to dismantle the Act. At the Committee stage we have dealt with the exclusion of hans clauses from awards. The clause with which we are now dealing seeks to make an employer even more helpless in the face of irresponsible union action. Earlier in the Committee stage the Minister gave us a little lecture on the right to strike. No one denies that right, but I think the Minister would buy an argument from honourable members on this side of the House on whether most strikes are responsible or whether the union leaders who call their people out on strike are acting for legitimate reasons. 
I think it is very poor for a man of such far sightedness and modern thinking as the Minister to cast back to 1906 for a precedent for clause. 55. In this day and age we have moved into the industrial era and I would have thought that a better proposal would have come from the Government if it is as concerned, as it claims, with fostering better and more harmonious industrial relations. I am always puzzled when faced with a clause like clause 55 to know what is meant by a tort that has to be protected. The Minister spoke about what happens when people are forced into civil courts. He has had some experience himself in that respect. If, as is to happen under this legislation, bans clauses are to be taken out of awards, industrial agreements are to be completely obliterated and no sanctions are to be provided for their enforcement, the Minister may find that certain actions for breach of contract will be brought. I suppose that then we will be faced with further amendments to the Act to exclude liability for breach of contract as well as tort. 1 do not think it is very profitable to speak as the Minister did about what has happened in the past. He should be looking forward to some sort of statement of fair labour practices so that we do not have to resort to some of the archaic forms of action which originated in the 19th century. We expect leadership from the Government, which the Minister says is promoting harmonious relations by the protection given in this measure to union representatives. I will give an example first of intimidation. A union shop steward may go to an employer and say that unless a particular employee is sacked the factory will go out on strike. Because of the provision we are discussing the employer will be able to do nothing about it. A union representative may say to an employer: 'Unless you force every one of your people in this shop to become members of a particular union we will take all the workers out on strike. Not only will we do that, we WIN also set up a secondary boycott by taking out the workers of the suppliers of the materials and put pressure on you to come to heel.' 
I turn now to sympathetic strikes which by this amendment will be legalised under an umbrella of respectability. There is also the more pernicious aspect of picketing. Union representatives will be able to picket private individuals' homes, to parade up and down the street intimidating wives and families, throwing stones on the roof. Such behaviour normally would be classified as torts but because of this legislation, allegedly in the interests of industrial harmony, it will be carried out with impunity, as 1 am reminded by a colleague. Those are the sorts of things that this Bill will allow to happen with complete impunity. What we want to hear from the Minister for Labour is some reasonable statement which is consistent with modern practice. We want some system which will eliminate these legal difficulties. 
I do not want to give the Minister any advice about drafting at all but this particular section may find itself in court in the not too distant future. The Minister may find that the protection which he hopes to give to some of his colleagues and pals in the union movement does not exist. Other legal actions may also be followed. I urge him to consider the question of getting some sort of code of fair labour practices so that employers will not have to think up legal ruses to get into court, because they are not able to get into the industrial court any more. They can be made party to an award and they have to comply with it under the present proposals otherwise they are liable to a fine of $1,000. A union on the other hand, may break the award immediately after it has been made. A union can breach it with complete impunity. A union may breach it by simply refusing to work under it or by bringing illegal pressure to bear by some tortious action on a customer or other person involved with the employer at the time. These are the features from which the Minister for Labour is seeking to exempt the unions, so as to give them a completely free hand. An employer will be left absolutely helpless at the mercy of some irresponsible unions. 
The Minister has said that strikes cannot be stopped because they usually originate from deep seated grievances. We had an example in Queensland not long ago when a manager of a meat works was concerned about the absenteeism of some of his workers every Wednesday. This gentleman went to the Bundamba races on a particular Wednesday afternoon, saw those employees who were persistently absent from work on Wednesday and dismissed them. As a result of that deep seated grievance, the workers went on strike. This is the sort of reason that is being advanced as to why the unions must be allowed to have a completely free hand - must be free from any sanction being imposed by way of a bans clause in an award, free of any clause in a voluntary agreement which would enable the employer to hold them to their agreement and freed completely from any tortious liability in the pursuit of their activities. 
This Bill will, in my humble opinion, give rise to more industrial unrest than we have ever seen before. The Minister for Labour was well aware of that in October 1971. It is probably a chapter of his biography that he will read with less than pleasure. But he was prepared to say at that particular time that there was a necessity to have some sanctions in industrial agreements to restrain a frivolous approach to them. He announced his policy and within 48 hours he was repudiated by his caucus. Yesterday afternoon while we were debating the Bill in Committee I was a little fearful for the Minister because often he was the only Minister in the chamber and on one occasion he had only one supporter. I thought for a minute that he had been dumped again. Fortunately there are a few more of his colleagues in the chamber this afternoon to give him some support. Honourable members will remember what he said in those days in 1971. I mention some of the newspaper headlines of those days. For instance: 'Hawke again scorns Cameron plan'; 'Cameron quit call'; Stand by ALP or be destroyed, unions told'; Cameron's new move on penalties - Unwilling to lie down, the Shadow Labour Minister  Mr Clyde  Cameron is continuing to press for the inclusion of some penalties for breaches of agreement made under Labor's proposed conciliation system'; and 'Whitlam booed over strikes'. The last mentioned was a headline which appeared in the 'Daily Telegraph', on 8th November 1971. In the 'Financial Review' of 20th November 1971 the headline "A quiet Clyde' appeared. The article beneath this heading stated: 
Some of the best friends of Federal Labor's spokesman for industrial relations, Clyde Cameron, are telling him 'for God's sake stop talking about the penal clauses in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act'. 
Later in the report it stated: 
Heffernan said Cameron was using a 'lawyer's trick' to get around the decision of the federal ALP Conference which barred sanctions. 
Did the Minister for Labour see the report in this morning's 'Australian' to the effect that major union leaders are putting heavy pressure on the Government over clause 50 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill? Was the matter raised at yesterday's Labor caucus meeting? Did the caucus refer the issue to its industrial committee for reconsideration? Has the Minister written to the Australian Council of Trade Unions for its opinion? Will the Minister assure the House that he will stand by his announced commitment to ensure a system of democratic control of all unions allowing fullest participation by members in their affairs? 
The Cities Commission Bill finds its necessity, I am afraid, in the Government's vanity. The members of the Australian Labor Party seem to assume that they are the only people who have concern for the cities and the needs of those who live in them. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development.  (Mr Uren)  until now has posed as some latter day John Batman wandering around the countryside and every now and again muttering to himself: This is the site for a city'. It is .unfortunate that, all we have heard from the Minister in this House ls  a  short 15-minute second reading speech on  a  somewhat inconsequential Bill. The Minister's Dpeartment - I say this in all sincerity - is one of the most important departments of the new Government because the problems of the cities are those which are most pressing and need to be resolved. But those problems can only be resolved by tackling them from a proper structural level, lt is of no use trying to bite off more than one can chew and this, I am afraid, is what may be happening to the new Cities Commission which is proposed by this Bill. 
In his second reading speech the Minister said that it was important to introduce this Bill to change the name of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority, which was established by the previous Government. I would have thought that if he had wanted to be the father of some new legislation he could have drafted his own legislation completely instead of trying to amend out of all recognition the statute of a previous government. The way in which it was done, of course, makes the legislation read like a pakapu ticket for anyone trying to understand it. But the essentia] feature of the Bill is simply to change the name of the Act and to change some of the names of the personnel involved in the Commission. The Minister in his second reading speech said that it was necessary to change the name of the old authority because there is  a  shared responsibility under the Act. If one reads the Act it is very difficult to see with whom the responsibility is to be shared. Secondly, he said that the Cities Commission will be the bridge between the Commonwealth and the States. The Authority could well have provided the same bridge. Thirdly, he said that the new structure of the Cities Commission will provide an opportunity for a greater contribution from a wider range of interests. That may well be true. But when one looks at the rest of the Minister's second reading speech and sees the work load that he will pile on the shoulders of this new Commission, I doubt very much whether the beast will ever be able to get off its knees. 
The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  wants to saddle a few more things on to  Ate  Cities Commission. He wants the Cities Commission to look at problems such as crime and drug taking in the suburbs. Much as there may be  a  need for some inquiry into those matters, I would hardly think it appro priate that the Cities Commission was the place to investigate them. 1 think there are  2  separate areas which warrant the attention of the Minister. The first is what to do about improving the suburban and metropolitan environment of the major capital cities. The Government is very keen on emphasising that the majority of people in Australia live in the major capital cities of Sydney and Melbourne, and that it is there that the problems of urban living are greatest - problems such as a decay in the central city areas and the sprawl of the suburbs which takes them so far out that long journeys to work are involved. 
I believe that the Minister in his second reading speech correctly diagnosed some of the problems of urban life, and I agree with his diagnosis. But I suggest that the Cities Commission would have a full time job in looking into the problems of the cities and the suburbs as they exist today. Most of these cities and adjacent local authorities would have their own planning schemes. At this time they are normally only zoning plans because local authorities do not have the finance to call upon to make real contributions in terms of development plans that we would like to see. They lack the funds, for example, to compulsorily purchase land which is necessary for public purposes in these new developments. They lack the finance to put in the public transit systems which are necessary. In very many cases they find it difficult to get the funds to put in the essential services of water, sewerage and electricity. Therefore, there are already in existence planning schemes for most of the areas where I would suggest the Cities Commission could profitably operate. I refer here to the perimeter areas of great metropolitan cities and also in the central city areas that are beginning to be run down. If the Commisson works in cooperation with the local authorities a development plan could be initiated fairly quickly because this very substantial question of money is what has held back local authorities in the past in the development of their plans. 
The second feature with which the Cities Commission should be concerned is the creation of new cities because, as I understand the Minister's policy statement, the purpose of establishing new cities is to take the pressure off the expanding populations in the metropolitan areas. One may doubt whether the proposal for the new cities will, in fact, achieve that result. They will, however, have an important effect on the community by providing a different type of environment where people may go and live and work. I think that this will make a significant social contribution to the development of Australia. However, I suggest that the new cities aspect is one which would involve separate development authorities, and I hope that the Minister in due course will bring forward legislation setting out the terms under which these new towns are to be developed. I hope that he will set up separate corporations to develop each city which is proposed and also provide the financial arrangements for the financing of these new cities, which is very important. 
We have heard so far about the only definite growth area that is proposed at present. I refer to the area of Albury-Wodonga. I do not know for what reason or by what method this site was chosen. I think it is probably unfortunate that this was chosen as the first site on which to make a major effort in this field. I think that the development of inland cities in Australia is fraught with great difficulty. I do not say that this cannot be done, but I think that it can be done only if we are prepared to pour masses of money into the development. It may be that an inland city development such as AlburyWodonga will command so much of a drain on Government expenditure that other serious and important projects may be left behind. For example, I would certainly hope that development in the already existing areas - the urban central areas and the suburban areas - would not be starved for funds in order to develop and make sure that AlburyWodonga was a going concern. It does not appear that any real feasibility study was made of the Albury-Wodonga site prior to the announcement by the new Government that this would be its major growth centre. Since that time, of course, studies have been initiated into the siting of this city. But it is almost a study to justify the decision which was already taken to make it viable. We were told in this House only a few days ago that we are to have a university centre at AlburyWodonga. We are told, too, that public servants and departments of the Commonwealth Government will be stationed in AlburyWodonga in order to give some impetus to the development of that new city. This may be all very well, but the original idea of Canberra was to try to collect together in the one city all the government departments so that people having any dealings with the Commonwealth Government could come to 
Canberra and do all of their business in the one city. The idea could well be destroyed if Government departments were dispersed in other growth centres of the country. I suggest that it would be extremely inconvenient if a person came to Canberra to see a particular department about some project and found that an allied department or some other department that was concerned with the development of the project was in AlburyWodonga. That person would then have to tear off there to see someone in the department. So, while I suggest that AlburyWodonga can be made feasible provided the Government has the determination to spend the money on it and provided the Australian taxpayers are prepared to tolerate a massive expenditure of the sort proposed in the Bill on the development of Albury-Wodonga, it could be done. 
I suggest that the more practical way to tackle the problem of urban growth would be to spend money on improving the existing facilities in the metropolitan areas at present, and also in looking for sites for new corridor cities adjacent to the new metropolitan areas along the coast. By and large, if a new town is sited along the coast, problems are reduced tremendously because most of the rivers flow into the sea at the coast and are available to provide water supplies and also to provide transport facilities to the major capita] and industrial centres. The proposals I have mentioned are 2 different and distinct aspects of the Minister's responsibility. While he was in Opposition one of his objections to the old authority in his second reading speech on the introduction of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Bill was on the basis that the proposed authority was a mere investigatory and advisory body. 
I suggest that the Minister cannot be serious in suggesting that his new creature, the Cities Commission, is anything other than an advisory body. I have looked through the Bill and have found nothing in the Bill to suggest that the proposed new Commission does anything more than advise the Minister. This function is exactly the same as that of the Authority proposed last year, which he criticised. I do not say that I oppose the Bill completely, but the criticism that I make of the attitude expressed in the Bill is that it appears to be loading an impossible work load on one commission. If the commission is used as the work horse for all objectives of the Government, I think it will be doomed to failure. 
I mention another point quickly because  1  want to allow other honourable members also to speak in the debate. I refer to the land price stabilisation scheme on which the Minister is keen. I know that he has not had much success in persuading the Queensland Government to co-operate in that scheme as yet, but I suggest to him that an appropriate time for a price stabilisation scheme to commence from would be the date of declaration of a designated growth area. In his second reading speech the Minister suggested that the fact that the Cities Commission is investigating a particular area does not mean that the Commonwealth Government is committed to spend money on a development project in that area. If this is not the case there seems to be no reason why a land price stabilisation scheme should be introduced. If speculators rush in on the basis of that proposal and buy land at exhorbitant prices and the development subsequently does not take place, it is tough luck for them. I am sure the Minister would not weep tears of sorrow if a speculator did not pull the trick off. 
I suggest that it is only from the time when the Cities Commission, the Commonwealth Government and the other appropriate cooperating authorities are committed to development in any new designated area that the land price stabilisation period should commence. I think this will be the point at which the Minister will find co-operation from the States and other authorities. Most people recognise that if there is to be a major expenditure and the development of a new urban complex in a particular area it would be proper for the increase in value arising from that project to accrue to the advantage of the development authority. 
There is one other point which I should like to make for the Minister's consideration, and that is on the question of evolving plans. It has been suggested that the proposed new cities will be planned on lines the same as or similar to Canberra - not in design, but in the type of planning procedure. If we are to have a systematic and comprehensive planning scheme such as operates in Canberra it is important that we make sure that democratic checks and controls are inserted into the system. Public participation in these planning processes is particularly important. After all, the new towns and cities in the expanded areas are meant to serve the needs of people and unless local people are consulted about the way in which existing cities are expanded and the plans developed, untold complications will result. An effective comprehensive planning scheme can be achieved only if the people concerned are taken into confidence. 
While I am on this subject, I chide the Minister for his lack of communication to this House about his Department and what it is doing. I asked a question of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  earlier in the session in relation to whether he would arrange for Ministers to make statements of policy in the House simultaneous with their release to the Press. The Prime Minister said that he would. Unfortunately the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has been very remiss in telling the House anything about his Department. We have had no statement as to what are his departmental functions. No statement has come from him as to the difference in function between the Cities Commission proposed by this Bill and the Department of Urban and Regional Development. He has made no statement to the House as to bow proposed new towns are to be developed. 
I draw the attention of the Committee very briefly to points of draftsmanship in the legislation. The activities of the Cities Commission are to be advisory only, yet the legislation contains various provisions which would indicate that it is to have an operating and trading function. For example, section 22 of the principal Act provides that the Commission shall not be liable to taxation. If the Commission is only to advise the Minister it hardly seems likely that the question of taxation on its trading activities should arise. I think it would be proper if that provision were to come out of the legislation. Section 23 (2.) (c) requires the Cities Commission to submit to the Parliament an audited statement dealing with its disposal of assets. Yet nowhere in its powers is it authorised to acquire assets, so that again seems to be a fault in draftsmanship and could well be corrected. We now have a Cities Commission which advises the Minister and a Cities Commission Advisory Committee which advises the Commission. I ask the Minister once again whether at an appropriate time in the future he will make a statement to the Parliament telling us what all these committees are currently doing and what the Commission is doing. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 14. 
While the Cities Commission is constituted as provided by sub-section 6 (4) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act, the regulations in force under the Principal Act immediately before the commencement of this Act have effect, subject to any regulations made under the Principal Act as amended by this Act, as if- 
references to the Commissioner were references to the person holding the office of Commissioner under sub-section 6 (4) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act; and 
references to the Deputy, Commissioner were references to the person holding the office of Associate Commissioner under sub-section 7 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Yesterday at question time he confessed to the sin of announcing policy decisions to the Press before advising Parliament. Will he, as part of his penance and as evidence of a purpose of amendment, consider changing his Press conferences to Wednesday, Thursday or Friday afternoon? If not, is the House to take it that he has no true contrition, and should it withhold its absolution? 
I second the motion. I want to say a few words about it because an important principle is involved and the House should debate the question. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in answer to a question yesterday, adopted a somewhat ostrich-like approach to the matter. The principle of pairing is very important to the running of Parliament. It depends on goodwill and confidence between the Government and the Opposition. If pairs are called off, we could have a system of government by ambush rather than government by discussion which is the process normally adopted in a House of this sort. This is an important question and the time of the House should be taken to discuss it. It is all very well to say that Ministers in the Senate run their own affairs; but after all, they are Ministers of the Government and the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Government, is in this House. Simply to wash his hands of the affair like a Pontius Pilate does not overcome the serious problem with which the running of the Government can be faced. If we reach a situation where pairs are dispensed with altogether in this House it could become intolerable not only for the Prime Minister but also for other honourable members in the House. This is an important question that should be discussed. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has $3m been allocated by the Government for the purchase ofland in the Caboolture area to provide Brisbane's second airport. 
If so, what area of land is it proposed to purchase. 
Has his Department conducted a feasibility study on the site. 
If so, will he publish the report. 
If not, will he have such a study made forthwith. 
In view of the fact that the Fine Rivers Shire, the Caboolture Shire and Redcliffe City are rapidly developing residential areas, will he refer the proposed site to the appropriate Department for an environmental and planning report. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he put a proposal to the Queensland Minister for Transport in February 1973 for a Federal grant of $40m for urban transport in Queensland. 
If so, was the proposal accepted by the State Government. 
What are the details of the proposal. 
Are there any conditions attached to the proposed grant; if so, what are they. 
I am sorry to follow the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  and deprive him of the opportunity of extolling the virtues of the country people who have just had their guts kicked out by this Government. However, I want to make one or two comments about the Budget which has recently been presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  After the election last year there was a general air of expectation in the country. People were still a little taken aback with their daring in flirting with a Labor government after so many years. They were trembling with anticipation to see what this great Government would do. The euphoria rapidly evaporated. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his team quickly went to work to insult our traditional overseas allies and trading partners. 
On the domestic front it soon became apparent that the Labor Government was committed to advance the policies of the trade union movement at the expense of the community at large. It has advocated a 35-hour working week and has encouraged enormous wage rises. It supported the national wage case claim of an 11 per cent increase, irrespective of productivity. The claim that was made before the election that there would be fewer industrial stoppages under a Labor Government has been proved by events to have been completely unfounded. In fact a new element of violence has emerged in union affairs - coincidentally, I suppose, with the introduction in this House of a Bill to remove penal clauses from the arbitration legislation and to exempt unionists from any form of legal punishment for civil wrongs. The Government has demonstrated over and over again this year that it has neither the power nor the will to restrain its union cronies. The policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister last December gave the impression that the millennium would arrive the moment the Labor Government took office. The Prime Minister posed as some sort of New Guinea cargo cult leader. On Budget night the Prime Minister was exposed for the fake he was. The cargo did not arrive. 
I do not want to say anthing about the economic consequences in the larger arena. I leave that to those who have more expertise in economic matters. But I want to make one or two plain comments on the Treasurer's proposals. He has said that the over-riding theme of the Budget is one of reform. Let us have a look at some of the reforms that he offers to us. First of all the Government has accepted an annual inflation rate of about 10 per cent. The figures that are coming in at the present time would lead one to suggest that the inflation rate will exceed 10 per cent before Christmas. Nevertheless, that is an innovation because never before has the Government accepted a situation where inflation will run riot, and accepted it at 10 per cent, which has previously been held to be a most unacceptable rate at which the purchasing power of the dollar should decline. I remind the House that $1 in the pocket last December is worth something less than 90c today, and if this wretched Government runs it full distance $1 before it came in will be worth something less than 50c. That is certainly an innovation and a reform of which the Treasurer can be truly proud. 
Let me mention his reforms on pensions. I believe the $1.50 increase in pensions which has been granted by the Budget and which has been introduced in Bills today is a creditable performance. However in view of the Government's own activities in accelerating prices rises in. the last 9 months it does not go anywhere near keeping pa.ce with the rise in prices. Some statistics were introduced by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  this afternoon when he introduced the Bill to increase pension rates. All I want to say about that is to refer to the comment of an American statesman who said: There are lies, damned lies and statistics'. Statistics can be made to prove whatever one wants them to prove, but everyone on a fixed income knows that every time he goes to the supermarket to do his week's shopping lc or 2c has been added to every item he buys, and his pension is not keeping pace with the general rise in wages. If the Government is to have any credibility at all in its promise to increase the pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings it should immediately link the pensions to average weekly earnings so that when there is an increase in average weekly earnings there will be automatic increase in pension rates otherwise the pension will fall behind in the period of rapid inflation that we are coming into at the present time. 
John Citizen might have been forgiven the day after the presentation of the Budget for thinking he had come out of this particular period reasonably well. If he did not drink spirits he could say: 'This will affect only those toffy people who drink Scotch. They have to pay an extra 3c a nip'. If he did not smoke he could say: 'That is all right. Those people who are driving themselves into the grave with lung cancer will have to pay another Se a packet for their cigarettes, but of course that does not really affect me'. But of course he has not read the small print. When we read the small print, and as day by day more revelations are brought to us, we find that John Citizen's pocket has been hit very hard by this Budget. We were not told that there is to be a rise in the excise on beer. That was cunningly concealed in the Coombs report, and all the Treasurer told us was that the Government would change the measurement of the kilderkin. That sounds all very nice but now we find that an extra $7m is to be raised from excise on beer. If anyone imagines that breweries can carry that sort of a sock he is either a fool or something else. Price rises have already been hinted at. In fact in his report  Dr Coombs  says that the change in the measurement of the beer kilderkin will result in a price rise of about lc per 10 oz glass of beer. Typical of the Labor Government since it came to office, it has not told the people the straight facts all at the one time. It hopes that by telling the people one piece of dis.asterous news today and by leaving the next piece of disastrous news for a week nobody will ever put all the disasters together and realise how terrible this Government really is. 
John Citizen might have thought: 'That is all very well. I am still on the up and up. I have an increase in wages and all is well'. Then he comes to the Se a gallon increase in his petrol. That does not matter to the businessman because the businessman will pass it on, but it matters to John Citizen. The man who has to drive his motor car to work will find his petrol bill going up each week. It might go up by $1 a week depending on how far he has to travel in his motor car. If he wants to take his family for an outing on the weekend it will cost him more because of the increase in petrol tax. If he has to leave his car at home for his wife it will cost him more on the bus and more on the train. Every time his wife buys the food she will find that prices have gone up on all those items that are delivered by motor transport. If he happens to be one of those thousands and thousands of people who are waiting to have a telephone connected the Treasurer has more good news for him. When he eventually gets connected in several months time he will have to pay another $10 for the privilege of having the telephone connected. If he reads the fine print in the Budget he will also find that if he has a holiday home or a weekender somewhere the rates on that property will not be deductible from his taxable income next year. This is another one of the small print parts of the Budget. 
So it is not only what appears on the surface but also what comes later that is important to the pocket of the ordinary citizen of Australia. I think it. is disgraceful for the Treasurer to make a Budget Speech that gives only half the truth and half the facts. He mentioned also that there will be some restraint on private building. He did not say what it will be but we can make a pretty good conjecture at the present time because a few days after the Budget Speech he said in answer to a question in the House that he was proposing to introduce legislation which would place restrictions on all forms of non-banking credit. Building societies will be among the organisations he seeks to control. So if a person does not qualify under the means test for a housing commission home his prospect of getting a home in the near future looks bleak. We were blistered again this week by an increase in interest charges. Once again the Government adopted the approach of announcing a little bit at a time. We are told that interest rates will go up but the Prime Minister does not have the intestinal fortitude to tell us by what amount they will go up. I suppose that will wait for next week until we get over the shock of being told that interest rates will go up. 
Yes. I am told that possibly we will be informed on Sunday afternoon when nobody is around and when the Prime Minister hopes everybody is away at the beach. We have not only the tax slugs provided for in the Budget but also the blueprint for better things to come - wonderful reforms that the Treasurer has in store for us next year. He foreshadowed a few of them in his speech. One was a national health insurance scheme. This is the marvellous creature that the honourable member for Hunter said the people of 
Australia were waiting for. In this Budget, $8m has been allocated for a computer so that we can all have our medical histories and details of our private lives fed into it. If this computer is to run the health system, heaven help the patients, because recently the computers in the Department of Social Security broke down and thousands of pensioners did not receive their cheques, files were lost and computer print-outs told people that their pensions had been reduced or stopped. That is the sort of thing that is happening at the present time in the Department of Social Security. One can imagine what it will be like when this computer for the national health program gets under way. 
Next year there will be another levy on our taxable income to finance the Government's grandiose national health scheme. It will be a 1.35 per cent levy on all taxable incomes, including those of wives if they happen to go to work. 
No, that will not cover it at all. There will have to be an increased amount coming out of Consolidated Revenue which, of course, comes out of the taxpayer's pocket. There will also be an increased amount coming out of motor vehicle insurance funds, and that means that motor vehicle insurance premiums will rise as well in order to finance indirectly this magnificent scheme. 
They certainly look terrible. Quite a number of people to whom I have spoken have been looking for places to which to migrate. This is quite a serious suggestion. Not only do we have these clear indications of what is to come but we also have a blueprint in the Coombs report which the Treasurer tabled with the Budget Papers. The report recommends cunning and sneaky ways of introducing extra taxation to make it look not like taxation at all. But eventually it comes out of the taxpayer's pocket. If one has a report such as that tabled with the Budget Papers, if one finds that all the sneaky methods of increasing taxation which the Treasurer used this year are taken directly from the Coombs report and if no comment is made by the Treasurer as to whether the Government proposes to use the other items in the Coombs report, one must be left with the impression that the Government proposes to use some more of the Coombs report delights next year when it is short of cash. I can assure you,  Mr 
Deputy Speaker, that in view of the way this Government is spending money it definitely will be short of cash before next year. 
Let me look briefly at one or two of the delightful suggestions that appear in the Coombs report. Firstly, there is the question of life assurance deductions. It is suggested that these be abolished. Of course, this will be a tremendous slug for the middle income group - the people to whom before the election the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was so concerned about giving tax relief. That concern seems to have evaporated with the summer dew. It is also suggested that the Government tax child endowment. It is running at 50c a week - it was not increased this year by the Treasurer - and the Government is going to tax it. It must give the Treasurer tremendous comfort to know that he will have the possibility of introducing that reform next year! 
One of the most interesting proposals in the Coombs report is to reduce the minimum taxable income. Only recently the LiberalCountry Party Government lifted the minimum taxable income to $1,041. The Coombs report suggests to the Government that if it reduces the minimum taxable income to $417 it can pick up another &gt;$10m. What a marvellous reform! The Government will be able to pick up another 600,000 taxpayers, according to  Dr Coombs.  Those people comprise working wives, university students who work during the holidays and school leavers who work for only part of the year. What a marvellous way to get money out of the pockets of people and to hit at them when they earn such a pitiful amount of money in a tax year! But this is the era of reform and I suppose that the Treasurer has to scrounge around to pick up every cent he can to finance the grandiose schemes of the present Government. 
I want to comment very briefly on two of the programs introduced in the Budget. The first is the education program. This was introduced with a great fanfare by the Treasurer who told us that it represented a 92 per cent increase on the education budget last year. That is all very well, but if one looks at the fine print once again one sees that it is simply a sleight of hand or book-keeping juggling. More than half of that increase has been taken directly out of the States' allocations for universities^ - a responsibility which this Government has now taken over. Most of the educational expenditure is for programs to which the former Liberal Government had been committed before the election period. So the increase in educational expenditure would be a natural follow-on from that. The only novelty is the classification of independent schools and the distribution of money on a needs concept. If this concept does not get the Government into a tremendous stew and a tremendous pickle before the end of the year, I do not know what will. One can see from the classifications of independent schools that the formula used by the Karmel Committee is hopeless. It takes no regard of the facilities of a school or what is required to give children at that school a decent education. When this is applied to Government schools as well - we are told that it will be - one can imagine the chaos and the mess that the Government will get itself into. 
The other matter I want to mention briefly is urban programs. We were told that this was an historic move. It may be historic, but if one looks at the figures from a Queensland's point of view, as I am bound to do as a representative of that State, one finds that something like 72 per cent of the money allocated in the Budget by this Government for urban programs has been allocated basically to Sydney and Melbourne. If the Treasurer thinks that this Budget has increased the popularity of his Government he should stop reading Mickey Mouse comics, come back from Fantasyland and get down to reality. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Does he intend to have prepared a separate form for use by persons over 75 years of age who wish to apply for a non-means tested age pension. 
If so, what information other than evidence of age does he envisage as being required on the form. 
Will the form require applicants to disclose their assets and income; if so, why. 
When will these new forms be available for use. 
I ask the Treasurer whether he is aware that interest rates on home mortgages in the United Kingdom rose to 11 per cent last Friday? Is he aware that the United Kingdom Government tried every method known to keep a lower and special rate for home mortgages? Is he also aware that these endeavours were a dismal failure? Further, is he aware that the financial experts both here and abroad are of the opinion that it is impossible to maintain preferential rates of interest for home mortgages? In view of the overseas experience, what facts exist in Australia which would lead the Treasurer to believe that he can succeed in this task where the Chancellor of the Exchequer has failed? 
I wish to take the opportunity in this debate on the estimates for the Parliament to raise a point which I raised early in the last session. As a new member in the House I was of the belief - apparently mistaken - that if I came into the chamber and sat here long enough I would be told what the Government was doing. After a few weeks here I discovered that that impression was completely false. Unless one bought practically every national newspaper in this country and scanned it carefully from page to page it was impossible to be reliably informed of what the Government was doing from day to day. As a result, I directed a question on notice to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  asking him whether he would ensure that policy statements, both by himself and his Ministers, would be made in the House before they were released to the Press so that members of Parliament would be informed immediately and at first hand without having to wait for the next day's newspapers. In answer to the question the Prime Minister said that he would make every endeavour to ensure that that course was adopted. Of course it did not happen. The weekly Press conferences continued. 
Another question was placed on notice by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly;, who was also concerned about this practice. As I recall, the Prime Minister in answer to that question said 'Meax culpa, meax culpa' and confessed that he had breached the convention by which Parliament becomes informed of what the Government is doing. A couple of days after that - when it was apparent that the Prime Minister, although he had confessed his guilt, was still not moved with sufficient purpose of amendment - I placed another question on notice asking whether he would take steps to remedy the situation. With his usual nimble footwork he completely sidestepped that question. A similar question was asked the other week by the honourable member for Wakefield. The honourable member was lucky enough to attend one of the Prime Minister's Press conferences. Not every member of Parliament is able to go to a Press conference. Although we may generate articles for newspapers we do not always do it in a professional capacity so we cannot go to the Prime Minister's Press conferences. The honourable member for Wakefield asked the Prime Minister why he did not make the statements on Cabinet decisions in the House as he does at his Press conferences. The Prime Minister in reply said that every member of Parliament has the right to ask questions and that if we asked questions similar to those that the Press asked we would be supplied with the same information in reply. Of course, that begs the question. 
The Press conference starts off by having a list of Cabinet decisions announced. Members of the .Press are supplied with Press statements by the Prime Minister's Press office and they can peruse them before they go to the Press conference. They know what the Government has done and therefore they are able to frame questions to elicit in more detail information which might be of interest to the general public. It is fatuous for the Prime Minister to say that members of this House have an equal opportunity to ask questions. As has been pointed out by other speakers in this debate private members of Parliament find it extremely difficult to catch the Speaker's eye to ask a question. A private member might ask 2 questions in a session if he is lucky. The other difficulty is that one does not know what the Government has decided to do. If we are to have a strong Westminster type of government in Australia with the concept that the Government is responsible to this House, the House must be informed of what the Government is doing. Ministers make information available to the Press outside this House but they are not prepared to tell the House because they know that if they make a statement in the House it might be subject to adverse comment and debate. 
The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is one of those people who is very prolific at issuing Press statements. Private members of Parliament receive bundles of papers periodically, I do not know whether weekly or monthly. They receive a great bundle of statements that are as stale as last week's bread. The Press has taken the Press statements apart by the time we receive them and on many occasions the Minister's statements have been reversed by Caucus or the trade union movement and they are no longer any indication of the current policy of the Government. 
Yes, the Prime Minister has been reversed by the Minister for Labour on television. Not only are we required to read a great host of national newspapers but also we are required to watch about 10 different television programs to find out who is knifing whom this week and what the Government intends to do. We had an interesting experience of this with the recent non-decision about interest rates. 
Thank you very much. I consider that high praise. The Minister for Labour was left out in the dark on this question but apparently a few of the Prime Minister's close cronies were consulted by telephone on Sunday afternoon and told of the discussions concerning revaluation and the bank rate. The announcement was made on the Monday that the currency was to be revalued upwards and interest rates would rise. 
Now that the House rises at 11 p.m. each Tuesday honourable members are able to get home and watch the Prime Minister's Press conference on television. The Prime Minister was very careful to say that the interest rates were really a matter for the Reserve Bank. He said that it was the banking system that would increase interest rates, not the Government Of course, an interesting event followed thai. The Caucus met the following day and found that interest rates would not rise. They were going to be selective. We noticed that all the Labor Party members who were eating in the dining room on Thursday evening left. A few scouts were sent out to collect the mavericks who were still around the place. They were all rounded up. We found out, by reading Friday's newspapers, that Caucus had rolled the Prime Minister and that the question of interest rates was now to be referred to the Economics Committee of Caucus. That is where the matter now rests. The money market is wondering what on earth what the interest rates will be. The matter was referred to the Economics Committee 3 weeks ago. We have not had a statement from either the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  or the Prime Minister in the House. We have to read the Caucus leaks in the newspapers. Looking at the Minister for Labour reminds me of an occasion last session when a report was released of what had happened in Caucus about the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill in respect of the election of union officials. I remember an article on the front page of the Australian' giving a full report of what happened in Caucus. 
I asked the Minister the next day. This highlights the point I am making. 
He admitted that the report was correct. Members of Parliament have to be a jack of all trades now. We have to read all the newspapers. We have to get the call in the House to ask the Minister concerned whether the Press report of the leak of Caucus was correct and whether it is the policy of the Government. We have to try to ferret out what the Government is doing from sources other than in this place. If we relied entirely on what we are told in this House we would be absolutely in the dark. We would never know anything. The only thing we would know would be that the division bells were ringing and that the gag was being moved. 
Last Tuesday evening when I sat listening to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  introducing this measure I was reminded of the limerick: 
A smiling young lady from Riga 
Once went for a ride on a tiger, 
They returned from the ride 
With the lady inside 
And the smile on the face of the tiger. 
I can see at the dispatch box the tiger smiling happily. The Leader of the House has a tremendous record for survival. He was a member of this House when the Chifley Government fell; he was a member of this House when the Labor Party split asunder in the 1950s; he was a front bencher in the House not so very long ago but was dumped; and last year he made a remarkable recovery in being reappointed to the front bench of the House and becoming Minister for Services and Property. A man with such a record of survival in a Party such as the Labor Party cannot help but become an expert in the numbers game, which is exactly what these Bills are about. 
Of the 2 Bills before us one is simply a machinery measure which is inconsequential, so I do not propose to address any remarks to it because if the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill 1973 (No. 2) is defeated, as the Opposition hopes it will be, the Representation Bill will become unnecessary. The Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill 1973 (No. 2) seeks to allow Senate representation for two of the Commonwealth Territories. I mention this because only 2 Commonwealth Territories are being singled out for the righting of the great wrong that the Leader of the House believes we have been labouring under for so long. It is interesting that the magical figure of two has been chosen by the Minister as being the apropriate number of senators to represent the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. I suggest that this proposal has been motivated by the difficulties which the Government now has, and which the Government had when it was in Opposition for many years. Because of the proportional representation procedure of electing, senators it has become increasingly clear that the Australian Labor Party will very seldom be able to command an absolute majority of the upper House. 
Of course we all know that the Government's real intention is to abolish the Senate completely, so there is a certain amount of hypocrisy in pretending to give representation in the Senate to Territories when it is the policy platform of the Labor Party to abolish the Senate in any event. 
One must look a little closer at the motives of the Minister who introduced this Bill. He went to great pains to point out that the purpose of the Bill - its only purpose - is to provide a measure of representation. We know that - at least until the recent Budget - the Australian Capital Territory has been considered by the Labor Party to be a safe Labor electorate. I suppose that Government supporters anticipate that the Government would win the 2 Senate seats because their margin is so great in the Australian Capital Territory. If Government supporters are looking for ways of trying to get numbers in the other House they have to give up the idea of winning them in the States and look around for some other curious method of building up their numbers in the Senate. That is the purpose of this Bill. The Labor Party members probably believe that they could win the 2 Senate seats in the Australian Capital Territory. Of the 2 senators to be elected for the Northern Territory, Government supporters might imagine that they could win one seat so they would be prepared, on those figures, to give one away in order to get three. With the election of 3 Labor senators the balance of power in the Senate would be completely disturbed and would fall more favourably into the hands of the Government. 
Once having provided Senate representation for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory there is no logical reason why Senate representation ought not to be provided for Norfolk Island, Cocos Island and all the other Territories of the Commonwealth. If the Government picks up one senator from here and one senator from there it can eventually erode the balance of power in the Senate and put it in a much more favourable position. That is exactly the object of this Bill. However, as in many cases with this Government, the Constitution is completely ignored. The Government seems to imagine that the Constitution is something which was written many years ago and which does not really apply today. I am afraid that the Government is in for a few shocks this year and next year when some of its more controversial legislation is challenged in the High Court. It may find that the Constitution is a vibrant and living document which curtails any ambition for power which it may have. When the Government gets into constitutional difficulties its favourite tack is to say: 'We will have a referendum'. At present the Australian people are committed to something like 7 referendums, all of which will cost millions of dollars to hold. The Government is putting the first of these referendums to the people on 8 December this year. 
I shall deal briefly with the constitutional difficulty that lies in the way of this Bill. Section 7 of the Constitution, which deals with the creation of the Senate, provides that the Senate shall be composed of senators from each State. I read that provision to mean that in order to be a senator, the senator must be from a State. The Leader of the House relies on advice which he has received from his legal advisers. The advice has not, of course, been tabled in the House so that we can see the basis on which it proceeds. It seems to me curious because the basis of that advice would seem to be that the word 'senator' in section 7 of the Constitution means something different from 'senator' in section 24 of the Constitution. On any principle of legal construction that would be an almost impossible situation. If the same words are used over and over again in one document, the law normally would presume that they are used in the same sense in each context. The Leader of the House may find himself again in legal difficulties if this Bill should happen, by some chance, to come into law. 
The Leader of the House wants the senators representing the Territories to be elected for 3-year terms or for terms which would coincide with House of Representatives elections. If the Leader of the House is consistent in wanting to provide equal opportunities for Australian citizens, whether they live in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory, to be represented in the Senate, the basis of their representation should be the same as for those citizens who reside in States. In other words, their senators should be elected for a full 6-year term. This, of course, is another matter which has caused great embarrassment to the Labor Party over a continuing period of time. The fact that Senators are elected for longer periods can create some check on the rashness and extravagance of Labor governments. This is another attack on the constitutional foundation of the Parliament of the Commonwealth. 
It is trite to say that the Senate is a States House. The Leader of the House, when he debated the subject on the last occasion, poohpoohed that idea and said: 'Whoever thinks that senators vote on State lines any more?' If they are members of the Labor Party they certainly do not because that Party has the same monolithic structure for the whole of Australia. All members of that Party are committed to the same platform and if they do not toe the line they get rapped across the knuckles and flung out of office. On this side of the House the situation is quite different and, as the Government should have reason to remember, senators on the other side of Kings Hall sometimes exercise their minds on matters of policy and vote according to the State interests they represent. I suggest to the Leader of the (House that he has suffered several rebuffs during the course of this Parliament which would indicate that senators have, in fact, voted according to their State interests if they were important enough. 
The Leader of the House knows about the Democratic Labor Party I suppose. He is friendly with its members at the moment. I do not know that he was too friendly with them a decade ago. 
Was he indeed? That may be. I see that the tiger has a very nice smile on his face again now. This tiger wants to lead us along the garden path and have us believe that really all he wants to do is to provide for democracy. As I pointed out it is really back to the old numbers game for the Leader of the House. What he cannot get one way he has to engineer another way. 
I have already mentioned the discrimination which appears in this Bill against senators coming from the Territories. They are to be elected for only 3 years and will be elected together. Of course, the Leader of the House says: 'That is very fair because the other side might win one of the Senate seats and we might win one of the Senate seats.' But I will bet that the Leader of the House had some figures prepared before he introduced this Bill which would suggest that the Government might do rather better than 50-50 at a Senate election from the Territories. The only reason he has not introduced a Bill to give representation in the Senate to Norfolk Island is that he probably realised that if he did that he would be going too far. He would be disclosing the nakedness of his hand to the general public. So he has to do one bit at a time. 
The inconsistencies in this Bill would seem to suggest that it ought to be rejected. As 1 have suggested the legal opinion which the Leader of the House has received and which would suggest that 'senators' under one section of the Constitution should be read differently from 'senators' in another section of the Constitution can only amount to a certain degree of sophistry - window dressing to avoid the real issue which is to provide more seats for his particular persuasion in the other House. It is interesting too that he is not prepared to go the whole hog and introduce a Bill for self-government in the Northern Territory. If he did that there would be no problem. The Northern Territory could be admitted as a new State of the Commonwealth and be given 10 senators. The Territory would be amply represented in those circumstances. 
The reason why senators were made to come from States and not from Territories controlled by the Commonwealth would be fairly apparent to anyone except blind Freddy. The Commonwealth Government, having control of all the expenditure in the Territories, can more readily persuade voters to its point of view - that is the Government in power at the time - than would be likely to be the case if there were self-government in the Territories. For these reasons I tell the Leader of the House that we will not have a bar of this disguised attack on constitutional government and the constitutional balance in Australia. We will oppose the Bills here and we will oppose them elsewhere. 
I take this opportunity to complain about the reluctance of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  to answer questions. It is of course a cardinal principle of parliamentary responsibility that Ministers should answer questions put to them by members of the Parliament concerned with the administration of their department. I simply point out that there is a question on the notice paper which I put down on 8 March last dealing with the announced intention of the Attorney to engage foreign lawyers to advise him on the drafting of certain legislation dealing with Aboriginal land rights and restrictive trade practices. One would have thought that that was a simple question to which the Attorney could address his mind for 5 minutes and answer; yet it has been on the notice paper since 8 March. Not only that, but American lawyers of sorts have come and gone. Some of them have given reports to the Attorney; others have furnished reports which have been tabled in this House. And still the information required by the question as to what qualifications these gentlemen have, what fees they were being paid and other associated matters remains to be supplied. 
I must point out that the announcement was not exactly an announcement by the AttorneyGeneral. It was an announcement by a source close to the Attorney-General, which is about all one can get on this subject, that while in 
America on his way back from one of his very frequent excursions abroad he had discussions with American lawyers about various subjects and that he would invite them to come to Australia and advise him on various legal matters. I would have thought that the Attorney-General, being charged with giving legal advice to the Government, ought to be qualified himself to give advice on most subjects. If there is a subject on which his legal knowledge is insufficient he has a team of qualified lawyers in his Department. All of them have been trained over a long period of time in practice on the Crown side and they have more experience than perhaps people in private practice because they deal with a much more limited field and perhaps become more intimately acquainted with the ins and outs of that particular branch of the law. 
But instead of consulting his Department the Minister seems to have embarked on a program of going outside the Department to obtain legal advice. We see a couple of disastrous examples of what has happened. First of all, there was his bull-at-a-gate attempt to reform the divorce law. I understand that his new matrimonial regulations were drafted for him by a junior counsel, and they were a complete disaster. Then there was the question of his dealings with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation which still has a very large note of interrogation hanging over it. In his dealings with ASIO he was advised by a gentleman,  Mr Milte,  in what capacity one does not know, because a question asked by the honourable member for Warringah (Mr MacKellar) on the subject has been on the notice paper since 4 April. 
 No, he has not answered that. The question asked whether  Mr Milte  was being engaged, or words to this effect, by the Commonwealth or by any Commonwealth department or agency, and if he was what fees was he being paid and what was he being engaged to advise on. If we read the newspapers we understand that apparently this gentleman has given evidence before a Senate committee. He was described in the 'Australian' newspaper as being a former policeman, a former Melbourne barrister and a former counsel to the Attorney-General. He has also figured in news releases about his going to the Northern Territory and doing an inquiry on the police force in the Territory. 
But still the question remains unanswered. What advice' is this gentleman being engaged by the Attorney to give? Is he being engaged to advise the Attorney on information which he procured while he was a member of the Commonwealth Police Force? Is he being engaged to give legal advice to the Attorney and, if so, advice on what subject? If the Attorney wants advice one would have thought that the world was his oyster. He could have engaged the leading silk in the country to give him advice on whatever specialty he might wish advice on. I believe  Mr Milte  is a very junior member of the Melbourne Bar - hardly a person whose experience or knowledge would warrant being engaged by the chief legal officer for the Commonwealth. So, once again there is a very serious note of interrogation hanging over it. In his dealings with remained unanswered for so long. If one refers to the estimates which are before the Committee at the moment and searches through them from front to back, there is no item which could be classified, on any fair reading, as being one which would cover fees paid to counsel in private practice. 
I have heard of other counsel in other States who have been retained - not engaged for a particular brief - by the Attorney-General for a specified length of time. No mention is made in the estimates of fees which have been paid to them. I would have thought that if the Attorney is embarking on a policy of briefing out he ought to include in his estimates an item so that members of the Committee can know what additional amounts of money are being spent by the Attorney to obtain advice outside his Department. He ought also to include the names of counsel who are being engaged and the fees they are being paid. It is the practice in Queensland for the Minister for Justice to table each year a list of counsel who have been retained by the Crown and the amount of fees which have been paid to them. Such a practice would give members of this Parliament an opportunity to investigate the matter to see whether the Attorney is doing a good job with his Department and whether he is spending public money wisely. But the estimates prepared, as they are, in this very rough form, give no indication at all as to what briefing has taken place outside the Department itself. 
I deal now with the Attorney-General's failure to answer questions. I suppose, because the Attorney is in another place, one has to put up with a certain amount of delay because we cannot ask questions without notice very successfully in this House, and consequently questions have to be put on notice. No fewer than 18 questions directed to the Attorney are still on the notice paper unanswered. I should, I suppose, to do him justice, have gone through Hansard and checked on the number of questions that he has answered. But I venture to suggest that if that exercise were done we would find that very few questions asked in this House have been answered by the Attorney. The questions that are on the notice paper do not require detailed research in order to be answered. They are simple questions: Does the Attorney-General propose to do this? Who has been engaged? How many people have done something else? They are all questions which the Attorney or his Department could readily answer if they put their mind to it. One can only assume that the Attorney treats this House and questions asked by its members with the same disdain that he apparently treats other members of the community who want to talk to him. This particular Attorney-General appears to have rushed in like a bull at a gate on many particular matters. 
One of the American lawyers that he engaged - incidentally the lawyer has come and gone - was commissioned to give him some advice on securities exchange. I believe that the advice which .the lawyer gave after a 6 weeks sojourn here at unspecified expense to the Commonwealth was that before he could tender any advice to the Attorney there would need to be an amendment to the Constitution to give the Commonwealth powers similar to those enjoyed by the Federal Government in America. That was advice which a first-year student in constitutional law could have given to the Attorney. What we want to know when discussing the estimates is: How much did this advice cost? How much is it costing us to get advice for the Attorney-General from outside the Public Service? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hamsun)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am pleased to see that the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  is in the chamber while the estimates for those departments are being discussed. My colleague, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),   asked him some questions about the Brisbane airport. I am sure that all honourable members from Queensland will be interested in hearing the Minister's reply to those questions. Perhaps when he is dealing with that subject he will also answer one or two other questions I wish to put to him now. Earlier in the year the Minister made an announcement that $14m, I think, was to be made available for the acquisition of land for Brisbane's second international airport. The location of this airport was said to be somewhere in the Caboolture area. This, of course, is of some concern to the people in my electorate as Redcliffe would be possibly in the flight path of such an airport. I wish to ask the Minister: Where in the estimates is there provision for the $14m which he mentioned earlier 'in the year would be made available for the acquisition of this land at Caboolture? If no money is allocated in this Budget for the acquisition of the land, will he tell the Committee when it is anticipated that the money will be made available. and when a site will be chosen? Also, will the Minister say whether a full, open investigation will be conducted before the site is finally determined so that the people in the area have an opportunity to put their point of view before substantial amounts of Commonwealth money are committed to the purchase of land? 
I leave that topic for a moment and mention the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics which was tabled in the House the week before last. During the election campaign the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made one of his promises that he would electrify the northern rail corridor of Brisbane. At that time it was understood by people in Brisbane that that meant the electrification of the existing suburban railway line from Brisbane Central to Petrie. 
Yes, he has certainly electrified Australia with some of his comments. When that report was tabled it became apparent that the northern corridor of Brisbane meant the railway line from Brisbane Central to Shorncliffe and the railway line from Brisbane Central to Zillmere, which of course is not even the end of the existing diesel electric suburban railway line. I simply point out to the Minister - and I have written to him on the subject as well - that the studies on which the Bureau's report was based involved the Wilbur Smith report concerning Brisbane which was commissioned by the Queensland Government I think in the 1950s. That report was commissioned before the tremendous residential explosion in the Strathpine, Lawnton, Petrie and Kallangur areas took place. The figures, statistics and cost analysis in the Wilbur Smith report are very sadly out of date. I urge the Minister that, when the program is being considered for future years, the Wilbur Smith statistics be updated, particularly with the intention of extending the electrified railway line further out from Zillmere to Petrie at least. 
The other matter to which I wish to draw the attention of the Minister is the fact that the population of the city of Redcliffe is rapidly building up at present. It can be provided with a rail link if a connecting line is run from Petrie to Redcliffe. It is imperative that at least surveys be made at this stage. The land between the Petrie railway connection and Redcliffe city is presently in large ownership. In other words, if resumptions had to take place relatively few owners would be involved and there would be no disruption of residential dwellings because the land is very largely open country. However, unless action is taken promptly that land will be subdivided and sold for housing development and the opportunity of providing a rail link from Petrie to Redcliffe at a reasonable cost will be lost. I urge the Minister to take these 2 matters up with his Department so that planning can begin immediately on those aspects before the estimates are prepared for the Budget next year. 
asked the Minister for Labour, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that thousands of working people were left without transport in Sydney on 19 September 1973 because of a train strike. 
If so, was this strike due to a demarcation dispute between two unions. 
If the position is as stated, what action does he intend to take to ensure that the public is not made the innocent victim of such inter-union squabbles in the future. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour. Did the Minister see the report on the front page of today's 'Australian' under the headline 'National airlines strike is threatened over pay'? Did that report contain a statement that a national airline stoppage is unlikely before the weekend but that a strike could flare next week? It stated: 
At issue in the threatened national airline strike is a move by the Federal Minister for Labour,  Mr Cameron,  and the Minister for Civil Aviation,  Mr Jones,  to force Ansett to sign an agreement to act in concert with TAA and Qantas In any wage demands. 
It is believed it would require Government approval of any increase above about SOc a week. 
I ask the Minister: Is that report correct.  If  so, how does the Minister justify this tough stand against wage rises in productive industry when he has recently acquiesced in substantial pay rises in non-productive industry affectionately referred to by him as the fat cats of the Public Service? 
When the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  introduced this Bill he said, in his second reading speech, that the establishment of the Australian Schools Commission was a logical extension of the principles adopted by former governments in regard to universities and colleges of advanced education. Unfortunately I think the Minister was using logic of a Fabian school rather than of an Aristotelian school. It is obviously quite different having a commission which supervises the expenditure in 12 universities, all of which have a common interest in that they are run by States, from having a commission which is to supervise the expenditure for 9,500 schools, some of which are run by governments and others run by varying groups of parents with different principles and different ideals in view. 
I suggest that the task which the Minister hopes this Commission will perform is so enormous that it will emasculate the program. The Commission will get into such a tangled mess trying to work out priorities among those 9,500 schools that the whole of the Minister's grand ideas and grand concepts will crash to the ground. He said in the second reading speech also that the Government attaches very high priority to education, particularly to the quality of education and to equality of opportunity in education. I agree with the principles that he expressed. I doubt that the Bill which he introduced will achieve either objective. I suppose in dealing with the Bill we can only assume that the Commission will proceed somewhat along the lines laid down in the Karmel Committee report. If that is so the quality of education will suffer as a result of this Commission's activities. One has only to look at the efforts of the Karmel Committee in seeking to classify private schools to realise that a category system has been established which gives a positive disincentive for schools to upgrade their facilities. If they upgrade their facilities in one particular year they move into a higher category and the Government support which they receive would drop. 
The Minister might interject but in fact when the matter was pointed out in the Press a spokesman for the Interim Committee was cavalier enough to suggest to schools that if they wanted to go down a category they ought to sack a teacher and increase their student-teacher relationship in order to qualify for a higher grant. That is the type of quality of education that this Commission is likely to produce. What does this Commission mean and what does the Minister mean by the quality of education? Does it mean that he wishes to have modern buildings? Does it mean that the Minister wishes to have playgrounds with trees? Does it mean that he wishes to have sporting facilities? Does it mean that he wishes to have libraries or certain teacher-pupil relationships? The quality of education is one of those vague phrases which are bandied around so frequently by educationists and academics - and the Minister is no exception to either of those groups - and no one really knows what is meant by them. It is one of those things like motherhood that everybody is in favour of but no one quite knows how to define. 
The quality of life depends on the value judgment which is made by the community whose needs the particular school wishes to service. So this is something extremely subjective. I suggest that in questions of Government finance of education a vague phrase such as that is absolutely meaningless. We have to get down to tin tacks. One has to say whether the Government will set positive standards for schools. Are we to have class sizes restricted to certain numbers? Are we to have audiovisual aids available for every class? How much and what sort of equipment will be provided for sporting facilities? What type of curriculum will be used in the various schools? I think this would lead to very meaningful discussions about what advances could be made in education. Simply to refer to the quality of education is to be as vague and meaningless as are some of the other terms which, unfortunately, have been used in the Karmel Committee report. 
Let me deal with the second principle which the Minister announced as Government priority - equality of opportunity. May I suggest to the Minister that if his Government is concerned about having equality of opportunity in education he is going about it the wrong way round. It is ridiculous to start spending money by making universities free if equality of opportunity in education is the aim. Unless a child is grounded properly in infant and primary school - I leave out of account secondary schools for the moment - there is no point in making attendance at universities free. In the United Kingdom recently a teacher shortage has occurred in secondary schools because of an earnest desire by the Government since the Second World War to make secondary education available for every student. This country has followed exactly the same course. Whether that course has been wise will perhaps be judged in future years, but it is certainly correct to say that hundreds of secondary students in this country today are wasting their time and wasting the Government's money by staying at school. Alternatives have to be made available in order to make sure that children in the last 2 years of secondary education do not waste their time sitting in school simply because they have to and to make sure that they derive something of advantage to themselves when they leave school. 
I refer now to the infant and primary schools. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  referred to this matter. I rather feel sorry for the honourable gentleman because every time he speaks I get the distinct impression that he had a nasty experience in his youth and he has not quite got over the shock. I will refer to the disadvantaged people mentioned by the honourable member. He talked about handicapped children and children with specific learning defects. If the Government wishes to provide equality of opportunity for people like that it must first provide remedial teachers in the infant and primary schools. 
-'I am glad to hear that. It is no good asking why this was not done 23 years ago. I suggest that 23 years ago remedial teaching was unknown in practically every country. It is only in recent years that educational techniques have advanced to such a stage that learning defects in children can be diagnosed and treated and that persons have been trained as remedial teachers and placed in schools. 
Education in general is an expanding and an evolving program. It is no good asking why certain things were not done years ago because years ago the need was not there. I see the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  trying valiantly to make a sensible interjection. Let me remind the honourable member that when I was a lad in Brisbane, and no doubt when he was a lad there, under a Labor government which was in power in that State for over 40 years there were 2 State secondary schools in the whole Brisbane metropolitan area. Since the Liberal-Country Party Government came to power in Queensland in 19S7, State secondary schools have been established in every Brisbane suburb. This is what has happened in the field of education. It is the process of evolution - keeping up with the times - which has taken place over the years. 
Let me return to the concept of equal opportunity. The report of the Karmel Committee, if honourable members care to read it, has this to say about the concept of equality: 
The Australian interpretation of equal opportunity has, then, been confirmed to public schooling, and has been interpreted there as equal and, in the main, uniform provision throughout the State for which each education authority is responsible. 
Mark these words: 
Given the spread of population, the degree of equality of provision which has been achieved is, by world standards, impressive. 
So much for equality of opportunity. But if one reads on in that report by the Karmel Committee one sees the real thrust of this Government. It is a thrust inspired by either jealousy or envy against independent schools. The report says that independent schools in general enjoy a higher standard of educational facilities than government schools. So, what does this Government propose? Instead of maintaining the independent schools at their admitted high level of operation, it seeks to cut down aid to independent schools and to lower their standards rather than to try to pump money into the government school system to improve government schools and to bring them up to the same acceptable high standards which independent schools have achieved very largely at great financial sacrifice to the parents of the children who attend those schools. I do not accept for one second that all parents of independent school children are wealthy. If the Karmel Committee worked on that theory, this is another glaring example of how it has approached this matter with a mind completely closed to the facts. 
I have read it several times. I must say - and I will when I come on to the point directly - that some of the concepts mentioned in the Karmel report are academic bunkum. I refer to the concept of need and the way in which it is defined. I will deal with it now so that the Minister will have the benefit of my observations. The Karmel Committee's report deals with the concept of need in these terms: 
The concept of need is not easy to define. 
I would agree with it there. It continues: 
Beyond a basic minimum level, the needs of schools can only be considered in relation to the objectives set for them and in accordance with what is considered appropriate in terms of the wealth of society. 
That is what the Karmel Committee says about need. So, dealing with the need of an individual school, presumably one must find out what objectives the parents of children at that school set for the school and what wealth in the society is available to finance those objectives. What does the Karmel Committee report do? It says: 'This is too hard to do. So, we will devise some mystical formula which produces inconsistencies of classification.' Even blind Freddie could realise that that formula is stupid. 
He is not the honourable member for Lilley; he is stupid but not blind. The Karmel Committee report works out some silly mathematical formula- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I ask the honourable member to withdraw that remark. 
I withdraw. I was provoked by the honourable gentleman, and I am sorry. However, I am not sorry for the remarks that I am making about the Karmel Committee's concept of need because it is the most fallacious formula I have ever seen. 
The Minister has mentioned a most interesting point. One wealthy independent school in Queensland - or one school recognised in the Karmel Committee report to be the most wealthy independent school in that State - will receive more money from the Government than it received under the LiberalCountry Party Government. That is the position. An independent school in my electorate which depends entirely on the support of the parents of its pupils and which has no endowments at all is classified in the same category as the most wealthy school in Queensland. 
This formula is complete bunkum. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I ask the Minister to cease interjecting. 
The Minister says that they are all subject to appeal. Well, I suppose one can say that it is an appeal, but it is a curious sort of appeal when the person who hears the appeal is exactly the same person who has classified the school and knocked it out in the first round. So, the same person or people will reconsider the decision. If that is an appeal, I will eat my hat. This concept of need, according to the Committee, takes no account of whether a school is run at a surplus or a deficit. Surely one of the basic criteria to determine whether a school is in need is to see whether its balance is run in credit or in deficit. The Committee takes no account of debt charges or whether higher fees can be charged. This is a patent and manifest fallacy. If parents are saving in order to pay school fees at a particular level and that school still has not the facilities necessary to give their children a decent education, surely one would say that that school is in need. But not according to the classification of the Karmel Committee. The fact that parents are paying as much by way of school fees as they can does not matter twopence to these academic gentlemen who have sat down and worked out a mystical formula for the distribution of government moneys. This is one of the main objections that I have to the Schools Commission: Parliament will be asked annually to appropriate bulk sums of money for expenditure on education. It will then be distributed to the States presumably under section 96 grants earmarked for schools in accordance with the recommendations and the formula determined in secret by the Commission. There are no bases on which any school in Australia can work out its own classification or formula. Goodness knows what mess this Commission will get into when it starts categorising government schools. 
Does the Minister suggest that the Commission will classify every government school in every State on the basis of need? How will that be done? Will the Commission have a different formula from the formula it used to classify need for independent schools? If so, it is a blatant discrimination against the parents of those children who go to independent schools. If not, surely the report itself makes nonsense of the concept of classifying government schools in accordance with need because the States have set minimum standards for every school. Certainly there are areas in which more money needs to be spent on education. But it ought tobe spent in a more rational and sensible way. People ought to toe told what are the criteria on which this Commission will operate, what are the standards which this Commission sets for schools, and what the Commission considers to be the proper use of resources. Do honourable members imagine for a moment that this Commission will not use the power of the purse to interfere in the way in which schools all over this country will spend their money? I suggest that this Commission is nothing short of an attempt by the Government to introduce a Fabian concept of equality into education that is doomed to disaster and failure. 
I want to make one or two brief comments on the report. The report itself was short enough to encourage one to read it and yet, on some topics, was scanty enough as not to be convincing. I thought that the conclusion which the report draws on the. high incidence of Aboriginal drunkenness in the Northern Territory was very superficial, to say the least. Also, 1 thought that the comments in the report were very scanty on the question of the employment of prison officers, court clerks, police and social workers. In fact, they were worse than scanty; in my book, the report appeared to make statements which were not based on any evidence mentioned in the report. The complaint was that there were no Aborigines being employed in these positions. The report makes the bland statement that there has been a purposeful and premeditated policy of racial discrimination. There is no support for that view in the report which has been tabled and I would find it very difficult to believe that such a policy was being pursued in that way. 
Some of the suggestions made in the report, particularly those dealing with the provision of a remand centre and various types of prison reform, are to be commended. There is nothing new in what is being suggested. The techniques of home leave for prisoners, work release and weekend gaol all are being used in other States of Australia. I recall that in Queensland work release and weekend gaol sentences have been operating for some 2 or 3 years. The incidence of prisoners who take the opportunity of being out of prison for the day to go to work and abscond is surprisingly small. Of those who do abscond, most generally return to the prison and report themselves after an absence of 24 or 48 hours. So, although we must expect in programs of this sort to have failures, the scheme itself appears to be working quite well in Queensland. There is no reason why a similar scheme should not work in the Northern Territory and I think that the proposals made in the report on those subjects are useful and ought to be followed up. 
I found to be interesting the section of the report dealing with courtroom practices. 1 was surprised to find that legal aid was not available to persons of impecunious means in the Northern Territory. I would certainly hope a scheme to provide such aid would be implemented quickly. In Queensland there is a system of poor prisoners defence which is administered on a permanent basis by employees of the Crown. Some criticism of this scheme was expressed in its initial stages because it was thought that the Public Defender and his officers, being employed by the Crown, would lean in some way to the side of the Crown. This has not proved to be so in practice. The officers of the Public Defender in Queensland have been most diligent protectors of the rights of persons in criminal cases. They prepare briefs - sometimes at very short notice - and leave no stone unturned in seeking out witnesses and preparing the case for their client to the best advantage. I think that this scheme could be profitably employed in the Northern Territory also. 
A further interesting point mentioned in the report on this subject is the suggestion that there ought to be a permanent Aboriginal spokesman to serve as an interpreter for Aborigines who are charged before courts. This, it was suggested, would be preferable to the ad hoc appointment of an interpreter for each individual case. I think, however, that there may be a danger in appointing a permanent interpreter. A permanent interpreter would be dealing every day with criminal cases involving Aborigines. There would be a tendency for him to judge the case of his client rather than simply to interpret. This has happened in cases not only of Aboriginal interpreters but of all other types of interpreters. One who practises in courts and has to use an interpreter finds that often the questions which counsel or the court asks witnesses are put through a thought process by the interpreter rather than the actual words being conveyed to the witness. If a permanent Aboriginal spokesman were employed by a court, the tendency would be that, as he became familiar with that type of work, he would be likely to judge the case of his own client rather than simply to elicit information from him at the behest of counsel. In other words, I am suggesting that the old maxim - familiarity breeds contempt - may apply in a situation of this sort. 
I mention also the desirability of having trained lawyers acting as prosecutors. In the Northern Territory, as is common in most Australian States and in fact is common throughout all British speaking countries, policemen generally prosecute in courts of petty sessions or magistrates courts. This has been the case for centuries. The system has worked well. But no doubt exists that on some occasions persons being tried for petty offences may gain the impression that the court is being run for the benefit of the police. However, by and large I think that the magistracy does preserve a measure of independence and does bend over backwards on most occasions to try to make sure that the accused is given a fair trial and that police prosecutors do not railroad cases through. 
The practice of having lawyers to prosecute cases in courts of petty sessions is desirable; but, in terms of economics, I think that it becomes impossible in many cases, particularly in a large territory such as the Northern Territory where the population is scattered over the whole area and where court hearings will be held at various local and usually small centres of population. It may be that in some of these centres lay justices of the peace would preside on the bench. This is not always a bad thing. I am reminded of a story which came out of the Court of Petty Sessions in Camoweal which is situated in the electorate of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  On this occasion a gentleman was charged before 2 justices of the peace with having used obscene language in a public place; to wit, a local hotel. 
He was asked by the Bench: 'How do you plead, guilty or not guilty?' On his saying that he pleaded not guilty the presiding justice of the peace said: 'What? We were there. We heard you'. So, on some occasions in court hearings in small centres the possibility of a miscarriage of justice is eliminated by the fact that the Bench and all other persons in court are quite well aware of what in fact happened. 
The last aspect on which I wish to comment is the suggestion in the report that a procedure be adopted similar to that in the United States of America which would allow a person who has pleaded guilty before a magistrate to change his guilty plea on appeal on the grounds of the incompetence of his counsel or lack of knowledge on his part of the consequences of his plea, and on other such grounds. The report does not mention what 'other such grounds' are. I see no reason why we need to look to the United States for statutes that provide this kind of protection to persons who are overborne before magistrates. In most British speaking countries, it is possible for an accused person, if he has pleaded guilty in a magistrates court, or lower court, to change his plea on appeal in a superior court. He can do so if he was misled in any way or was overborne in any way by a police prosecutor or magistrate in the court below. In other words, the question is not, as suggested in the United States, whether his counsel was competent but rather whether the accused person knew what he was about and whether his plea of guilty was a voluntary act on his part. I think that we need to be careful in rushing to the United States to find precedents to apply to the criminal law in Australia. 
I note that one of the parties to the report is an American. I mean no disrespect to American lawyers. But anyone who has made any study of the concepts of criminal justice in the United States could not be but appalled at the maze into which the Supreme Court of the United States has brought the administration of criminal justice by interpretations of various sections of the United States Constitution. There must be a balance between the desire of the community to have criminals convicted and the desire of the community to see that justice is done. In Australia, we have been lucky that we have had no major scandals which have disproved the fact that justice not only is done but also is seen to be done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I am a latecomer to this debate but I have been provoked by the pathetic attempt by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  to gloss over the disarray of the Government's foreign policy. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in his capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs, has had many overseas trips since becoming Prime Minister last December. Each of those trips was heralded by a great fanfare of trumpets before he left, but each has been shown to be a disaster on his return home. I remember his first excursion to South-East Asia. He put forward some proposal for a nuclear-free zone, but it went over like a wet blanket among the other heads of state to whom he spoke in South-East Asia. They began to wonder just what this chap was on about and which side he was on. 
Then we had the experience of his going to Mexico and trying to sell a proposal to the Mexican Government that it should form some cartel with Australia to keep control of and put pressure on the consumers of raw materials. That proposal took off like a lead balloon. He proceeded from Mexico to Washington where he had a grudging interview with some minor officials in the State Department and a short interview with the  President,  brought about because of the suggestion that it would be a great embarrassment to Australia's Prime Minister, having arrived in Washington without an invitation, to be left sitting in the cold. 
What did he do then? From Washington he proceeded to New York where he commenced to insult his host, the  President  of the United States. He offered suggestions on how he should run his government. He had the hide to come into this House yesterday or this morning and criticise other people, the Premier of Queensland for example, for making comments about the Australian Government while they were abroad. I can well remember supporters of the 
Government when they were in Opposition last year making a regular practice when they were abroad of criticising the Australian Government and, ipso facto, the Australian people who elected that Government. I remember that  Dr Cairns  went to Fiji and criticised Australia and its government. Members opposite went to New York and criticised the Australian Government and the Australian people. They went all over the world criticising Australia, yet now they have the hide to complain when other people take a lesson from their book and do the same. 
To advert again to the Prime Minister's overseas visit, he proceeded to the Prime Minister's Conference in Ottawa. What did he do there? He gave  Mr Trudeau  some helpful hints on how he ought to be running Canada. He gave  Mr Heath  some helpful hints on how he ought to be running the United Kingdom. He gave  Mr Lee  a few hints on how he ought to be running Singapore. I suggest that none of those gentlemen would be prepared to have tea with the Prime Minister, let alone have any civil words, with him after his performance in Ottawa. 
Goodness only knows what will happen when the Prime Minister and his entourage don their tails and silk hats and go next week to Japan. What a line up of intelligentsia he is taking with him. He will have with him the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and a battery of high powered diplomats. They will go to Japan and probably move through that country with the delicacy of a herd of elephants in a china shop. This is the attitude of the Government to foreign policy. It is an attitude which is bringing Australia into disrepute not only in this region of the world but also throughout every other country. 
There is nothing wrong with going to Japan, but I forecast that the delegation to Japan will open its mouth and put its foot in it at least once while it is in Japan. I only hope it will have the courtesy not to do it in the Imperial Palace. This is the sort of disrepute to which the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  referred in his speech on these estimates. It is a deep-seated objection which the Minister for External Territories completely avoided mentioning. He put his head in the sand, made a few silly fourth form remarks about the comments of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and proceeded to dismiss, pretend to misunderstand and be stupid about the comments of the honourable member for Chisholm. If this is the fashion in which foreign policy in Australia is to be conducted all one can say is heaven help the country. All one can do is look forward to an early election date when this gang opposite can be thrown out. 
made and made very clearly. That is that the approach by the Government in phasing out aid for some of the categorised private schools is simply phase one in a program to eliminate private schools altogether. One has only to look at the statement which has been made by the Catholic bishops of Australia and the Anglican bishops of Australia to realise that they have not been taken in by this subtle approach by the Labor Party. 
I am fortified in my view about the ultimate aims of this Government by a report on an education debate by the Labour Party in the United Kingdom because quite a number of old slogans and catchcries that have appeared in the report on that debate in the London Times' recently have been repeated in this House by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  and others of his ilk. 
They say that private schools provide an avenue for parents to buy privilege for their children and this is exactly the same sort of thing that the Labour Party in Britain is advocating. A report in the 'London Times' of 5 October 1973 dealing with the education debate in the British Labour Party is headed: Abolition of privilege but no pledge on "top 25" schools'. The British Labour Party spokesman on education is quoted in that article as saying: 
We will never be able to abolish the concept of elitism in education while we allow some people to pay for education, not always better education, with the intention of buying privilege in education and in life afterwards. Privilege can never be defended on the grounds of freedom of choice. 
That is what the education spokesman for the British Labour Party said about independent schools in that country. The same article reports another spokesman as saying that the Labour Party would never be able to abolish the concept of elitist education while they allowed some peole to pay for it. They had to start on the financial concessions made through rate relief and other tax reliefs. The outcome of the debate to which I have referred was that the policy espoused by the British Labour Party at the present time is that government money for private schools is to be phased out and not only are private schools to be stripped of government money but also they are physically going to be closed down in the ultimate. 
In the United Kingdom. They will be closed because they say that it is contrary to the principles of Labour socialism that an independent school system should exist while there is a government-run comprehensive school system in existence. That provides the blueprint for the Labor Party in this country. Admittedly it is usually about 10 years behind but inevitably it moves towards the same conclusions and that is why I suggest that Anglican and Catholic bishops have been very wise in pointing out the disadvantages in the Government's proposal and the techniques being used by this Government to suck in the unwitting parents for the guillotine next year. 
I want to get off the subject of private schools for a moment because I do not want to be accused of speaking on behalf of rich and wealthy schools. Let me assure honourable members that I have none of those schools in my electorate, nor do I have any multinational corporations which pay my campaign fees. 
I am very unlucky. I notice that my friends from Queensland the honourable member for Bowman and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  are interjecting, and well they might in view of the public opinion poll figures published at the weekend which showed that support for the LiberalCountry Party was running at 52 per cent in their State. No wonder the honourable gentlemen are interjecting and doing all they can to try to put themselves in a better light. I wonder what they will say to their children when their children come home and say: Daddy, why is your Government cutting off aid for our schools?' 
I now want briefly to mention something about government schools just to show that I am not entirely prejudiced. Let me point out to unbelieving members opposite that I started my school education in a government school - a state school. I probably attended a few deprived schools in my time as well. On the last occasion we were discussing the Estimates the honourable member for Casey said that illiteracy in secondary schools was very low these days. I asked him what he attributed that to and he gave me some jargon about input and outputs but basically his suggestion was that people cannot read and write as well today because of the enormous teacher-student ratio. I can assure him that in the school I attended during all of my primary schooling and for a substantial part of my secondary schooling there were no fewer than 60 pupils in the class. On one occasion for one whole year I can recall that a teacher was away sick and one teacher took 2 classes totalling something like 120 students. I can assure the honourable member that we can read and write better than the people who have been through classes of thirty and less. So in my submission his argument holds no water at all. 
I want briefly to point out one part of the Karmel Report which appears to have been lost sight of by the Minister for Education, and that is the paragraphs dealing with community involvement in schools. I am a great believer in the principle that parents and the community generally ought to be far more involved in the school because after all the schooling of their children is of prime importance to the parents. Children learn not only from going to school. The contrary is a fallacy which professional organisations such as the teachers unions seem mistakenly to fall into. They assume that all education comes from the school and that it comes from trained professionals. This, of course, is not so. Children learn a tremendous amount from their parents. They learn a tremendous amount from other people with whom they mix in the community and they learn a tremendous amount from the people they mix with in their own peer group. So it is important, in my submission, that the community ought to be involved in what is taught at school and the way in which it is taught in school. 
When the Schools Commission Bill was before the chamber and even in the debate on the Estimates there was no discussion at all of the Karmel Committee suggestion for community involvement. Recently the New South Wales Department of Education produced a consultative paper entitled 'The Community and its Schools'. That paper suggested that communities ought to be involved in the running of schools. What happened? We find that these lofty professionals who have nothing but the good of education in view complained bitterly about that paper because they were not going to share responsibility with parents for running schools. What an impertinent attitude to take! After all, they are employed to teach children at schools, not to tell parents the way in which their children are going to be taught and what they are going to be taught at school. 
Let me highlight some of the problems and dissatisfaction of parents who must send their children to government schools. One problem is the frequent turnover of teachers. This is not going to be solved by some bureaucratic organisation in Canberra. The most prevalent problem is the lack of concern which teachers have for the children. How often have honourable members been to a meeting and heard the remark that when the school bell rings the first person out the gate is the teacher? That is the situation in government schools throughout this country. Teachers are not prepared to wait after school for one second without being paid. Sports days cannot be organised because teachers will not participate in sports unless they are conducted during normal working hours. They want extra time to do their period marking and preparation. How many times is that time spent in doing the shopping and putting their bets on at the TAB? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Now that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  is with us I take the opportunity of raising the question of the Government's policy with regard to universities. The Government proposes to make university education free. I imagine that the rationale behind this is to encourage a higher proportion of students from working class backgrounds to go through to university education. As the Minister well knows, the University of Western Australia has been a free university since its inception. Can the Minister provide any figures for the Committee to show the proportion of working class studends who currently are attending at the University of Western Australia, and whether that proportion varies from the proportion in other universities of Australia that are not free? 
Is it not a fact that in Western Australia fees have been charged which are equivalent roughly to fees which are charged by other universities, although the fiction has been maintained that the University of Western Australia is still free? Does he see that the same processes which have overtaken the University of Western Australia will eventually overtake all universities in Australia notwithstanding his 
Government's proposal to make university education free? The last point I should like to raise for the Minister's consideration is this: What will happen in faculties where quotas are applied? Will places be given to students on the basis of merit at examinations, by some other system, on a ballot system or on some basis of need? If one makes university education free, one necessarily assumes that universities will be open to any student who has a basic educational qualification. This of course will be nugatory if quotas are imposed. Perhaps the Minister might like to comment on those points in regard to university education when he speaks in this debate. 
I am obliged to the Committee for being given the opportunity to say a few words on this Bill. 
I was speaking at the time when consideration of the Trade Practices -Bill was interrupted in Committee last night. I do not wish to say any more on the clauses before the Committee at the present time. Other honourable members wish to speak on these clauses, but there are certainly other clauses on which I would like to speak later. 
 I follow on the observation that the honourable member from Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has made. It is peculiar that we should be faced with an amendment circulated when the Bill is being debated in the Committee stage, bearing in mind that the Bill was introduced into the Senate by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  himself. This carelessness apparently was overlooked when the Bill was in the Senate, and it apparently was overlooked when it was introduced into this House. This is the sort of carelessness that members of the Opposition ought not to tolerate, particularly when it is presented to us without a syllable of explanation. 
I rise to speak on this group of clauses because they propose the setting up of a Trade Practices Tribunal. From what one can gather, the Trade Practices Tribunal will perform much the same function as does the Commissioner of Trade Practices under the Act that this Bill proposes to repeal. One of the reasons given for dissatisfaction with the present Act by the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  in his second reading speech was the delay and the slow progress that has been made by the Commissioner and his officers in examining examinable agreements. Because of the way in which the new Bill ds framed, there will be a complete turnabout of emphasis, but I suggest that the amount and volume of work which will be placed on the shoulders of the Trade Practices Tribunal will be exactly the same as the work now cast on the shoulders of the Commissioner of Trade Practices and his staff. So we are not going to be any further advanced by the substitution of the Trade Practices Tribunal for the Commissioner of Trade Practices. It seems to be a pointless exercise and the only basis for it is the suggestion by the Minister that somehow or other it will lead to greater efficiency and expedition in dealing with matters of monopoly. 
Competition in business is not complete virtue. Monopoly per se is not wicked. The purpose of government in this field has always been to chart a course between the Scylla of unbridled competition and the Charybdis of ruthless monopoly power, and the star to chart that course has always been the public interest. 
I did. 
I am glad for the interjection asking how one defines public interest because that is the chief distinction between the existing legislation and the proposals in this Bill. What we have in the Bill, as exemplified by the clauses to which we are speaking at the moment, is an importation of an American concept of trust busting into an Australian business environment. The United States of America has a massive mass market and a population many times that of Australia. The Americans have always approached this question on the basis of busting the trusts - busting the monopolies. They had the bald statement first of all in the Sherman Act that monopolies are wicked; no one is to have a monopoly power. I suggest that they have mistaken the existense of a monopoly for the ruthless exercise of monopoly power. There are state monopolies which exist in Australia. I refer to the post office and the railways. The way in which postal charges have been manipulated bv this Government in the Budget may well be regarded as exercising a monopoly powers which is pernicious. So this does not apply only to private enterprise. These practices and the exercise of ruthless monopoly power can be exercised by state monopolies. For example, they can be exercised by monopolies such as the Pipeline Authority which this Government has attempted to set up. 
All through history there has been a concern for the public interest. How to define it. of course, is a matter of some concern. But it needs to be defined in the Bill. The definition in these clauses is so vague and meaningless as to give no guide at all to what is meant by pernicious monopolies or what is contrary to the public interest. Let me refer the Committee to the proposals in the existing legislation. In section 37 of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971 where it defines the public interest as one-third of the market. It defines that market and it refers to a dominant position of trade and the supply of goods in a particular market. That is something which a court, a tribunal or a commission, or even the ordinary citizen, could look at and test the operations of a business enterprise against the criteria in the Act to decide whether what is being done is contrary to the public interest. 
Let me turn to the clauses of this Bill to see what they say about the public interest. In dealing with monopolisation the Bill says that a corporation that is in a position substantially to control a market for goods or services shall not take advantage of that position. It then goes on to list the things that it is not supposed to do. But what does it mean by saying that one is in a position substantially to control a market for goods, and what market Ls one speaking about? Is it the market in relation to a suburb? Is it a market in relation to a city, a State or the Commonwealth? The legislation is silent on this, the legislation that this Bill seeks to repeal contained a clear definition of what the market was going to be. How does one work out from this definition and how does the Restrictive Trade Practices Tribunal or the Commission that is proposed to be set up determine what is contrary to the public interest? What criteria are they to use? We are not told in the Bill, and presumably this will be left completely wide open. I pointed out that it is not simply a question of saying that all monopolies are wicked. 
All through history legislation has been sought to attack what has been known traditionally in common law as a pernicious monopoly. There have been monopolies in previous days which were created by royal patent. I am reminded that John Peeche in 1373 obtained a monopoly patent to become the sole retailer of sweet wine in London. Also,  Sir Walter  Raleigh was the holder of a monopoly in wine licences and a monopoly for the export of broad cloth. It was because of the power exercised by monopolies in Elizabethan and Tudor times that the Statute of Monopolies of 1624 was introduced by the Parliament of that time. That Statute struck at pernicious monopolies - not monopolies, per se, but pernicious ones - those which affected the public interest to its detriment. Perhaps the Committee might remember the most recent type of government monopoly which was broken by a very famous gentleman in India. Before independence, the Indian Government had a monopoly in salt. That monopoly was broken by Mahatma Gandhi. 
These are instances of monopolies. They may exist. They may not be pernicious. In some cases, they may even be in the public interest. So, it is the criteria of whether these monopolies are contrary to the public interest that is the important function to look at. This Bill proposes to change the system which we have in Australia and to convert it more into an Americanised procedure. As I said, the American approach is entirely different from the approach that Australia has adopted. What we have done in Australia has been to have regard to the market size of the country and the stage of economic development that we have reached. We have looked at the business community in a realistic way and we have proposed legislation which has been modelled very largely on the British experience. 
In the 1971 Trade Practices Act certain practices are prohibited altogether. Collusive tendering, collusive bidding and unlawful resale price maintenance are some practices, for example, which have been prohibited. Other practices are declared to be examinable agreements or practices. Persons engaged in them are required to register them with the 
Registrar of Trade Practices so that they may then be examined by a commissioner to see whether they are contrary to the public interest. That seems to me to be a most sensible way of approaching the question of monopolies and restrictive trade practices in Australia. It seems to me to be more sensible to approach the question in that way than to declare all of these practices to be illegal and then to have some commission investigate people to see whether they are infringing the legislation. Such an authority will be swamped with prosecutions and the argument that business will be the better for it or that the consumer will be the better for it is fallacious in the extreme. The British Act seems to have produced remarkable success. We are still faced with remarkable cases in the United States of America of the naked exercise of monopoly power notwithstanding the fact that that country has had trust busting legislation since almost the turn of the century. 
I had not intended to speak on these estimates but I was stung by some of the comments by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  Because they are statements that are made continually, particularly by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  I think I should take them up at this stage and say something about them. Over a period of at least 12 months the Minister has worked on the theory that if one says .things often enough people will believe him. Unfortunately that does not seem to be so. I want to mention 5 points made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. First of all, he used the old war cry that taxpayers in the higher tax brackets pay less for medical benefits than people in low income groups. 
I do deny it because the whole fallacy of this particular exercise ignores the fact that a very large proportion of the cost of medical services in Australia is borne directly out of the Treasury and that is contributed to by people paying income tax. The person on the higher income pays substantially more of his income in tax than does the person on a lower income. The honourable member for Gellibrand mentioned that some people pay tax at the rate of 60c in the $1 of income that they earn. What low income earner pays 60c in the $1 in income tax? He pays nothing like it. So if one takes into account the contributions which taxpayers on higher incomes make to the general revenue of Australia, substantial proportions of which come back in the form of medical benefits, one sees that the higher income taxpayers are paying more than their share towards the health services of the lower income groups in the community. 
The second point that the honourable member mentioned, and one that the Minister harps on continuously, is the small percentage of Australian people who are not covered by present health benefit schemes. No statistics have been presented to the Committee which would indicate in any convincing way that the claims which the Minister makes are accurate, nor is there any breakup to determine why those people are not covered by medical insurance and what particular groups they fall into. For example, are the people in Queensland who are not covered included as part of the total percentage? If they are, it is completely misleading. 
And dishonest. The Minister would well know that there are large numbers of people in Queensland who are uninsured because they have no reason to be insured unless they wish to be .treated in intermediate or private wards. So all those people could have been included in the percentage of people not covered by medical benefit schemes. Also, there are young people who have just left school to start work. I would venture to suggest that a large number of them would be uninsured for the simple reason that they do not believe that they need to be covered at this particular point of time. They are still young and healthy. There is no reason at all why they ought to be insured. People in those groups would comprise a very large proportion of the numbers that the Minister bleats about as not being covered. There is also a significant number of people who object to taking out insurance of any sort at all and who are prepared to pay their medical bills as they fall due without any insurance at all. There must be some proportion of the community that would be in that category. 
I move on to the third point made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. He accused private insurance funds of using contributors' money for the purposes of advertising. How hypocritical can one get? The Government itself has spent $250,000 of taxpayers' money trying to publicise a Labor scheme. Whatever the Minister might say, it is a Labor scheme. It is not a Government scheme; it somehow has evolved as a result of an independent inquiry by a couple of economists Labor dragged out of a university. The Government certainly had an inquiry after it became the Government to give some sort of respectability to the scheme that was cooked up when it was in Opposition. 
If, as we have been told over and over again in this chamber, the Government has a mandate to bring in a national health scheme, if the people have spoken conclusively on the Government's scheme, why does the Minister need to spend $250,000 advertising the scheme to the people who are supposed to have been convinced by his propaganda at the election and who voted for the Government, giving it, as he says, a clear mandate? Of course the pamphlet that was put out was entitled 'The Plain Facts'. A more misleading title could not be conceived if one sat down and .thought for one million years. The plain fact of the matter is that $250,000 of taxpayers' money has been squandered on that pamphlet which has now been abandoned by the Government because it has brought in another White Paper which chucks most of that pamphlet out the door. It has been $250,000 down the drain to satisfy the vanity of the Minister. 
I come &gt;to the next point made by the honourable member for Gellibrand, namely, the manifestation of efficiency in a larger scheme. What rot. One has only .to look at the Department of Social Security itself to realise the inefficiency that creeps into large scale Government operations. How many pensioners can go to the Department of Social Security and talk to anyone sensibly about .their file? They never get any answers. They do not even get replies to correspondence. And this is the same sort of massive bureaucracy that is now advocated for health insurance. It is nonsense to talk about economies of scale and efficiency; it is absolute rubbish. Some of the smaller private insurance funds are more efficient than the bigger ones and also more lenient towards their contributors .than the larger private insurance funds. So do no let us say that private insurance funds are inefficient because they do not take in everybody. That is just plain nonsense. 
I move to the fifth point. Four out of every 5 people, the Government says, will be better off under the proposed scheme. I suggest that this takes no account of the situation of the working wives. Honourable members will know how many people in their electorate have come to them and pointed out that they will be paying increased costs under the new Labor health proposals because if the wife works she will pay. If the husband works he will pay. If the teenage children work during the school holidays. They will pay. If one adds all together one will find that every family that has more than one person working will pay substantially more under the first phase of this scheme. If the experience in other countries proves anything it proves that nationalised medicine becomes more expensive year by year. It is not a question of doctors' fees. If the Minister is honest he will admit that doctors' fees take up only a very small proportion of the total health bill to the country. The real cost is in hospitals and the cost of the equipment, the servicing and the staff involved in running the hospitals is enormous and increases year by year under nationalised health proposals because of the use made of these facilites by the community. So while the taxpayer might say that he is paying 1.35 per cent in the first year, he will be paying a devil of a lot more before he is finished with this nationalised health scheme. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property. What is the estimated cost of conducting the referenda on 8 December next? Secondly, will, the Minister ensure that official publications by the Electoral Office use correct English and refer to 'referenda', not 'referendums'? 
The States Grants (Schools) Bill with which we are now dealing provides an enormous amount of money for education. As the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said, the Opposition does not begrudge the expenditure of money on education but as he pointed out also it is time that the quality of teaching in our schools in Australia ought to be subjected to some critical analysis. Education has become somewhat of a sacred cow in Australia these days. If one suggests any criticism of the education system as it exists or of those involved in that process one brings down the wrath of the banshee on one's head. If we are to proceed to a better quality of the end product, that is the children who are graduating from our schools, it is necessary that we attack some of these sacred cows in education. We should attack them in a critical and fair minded way and with a view to having open discussion about this subject. 
This Bill contains many programs but I am disappointed to find that there are no provisions in it for the financing of remedial teacher education. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  mentioned the necessity for early diagnosis of children with specific learning difficulties and I agree with that proposition. I think that something like 15 per cent of the children in our schools are suffering from some learning difficulty but only about 5 per cent of those have hard core problems. It is essential that these children be diagnosed at a very early stage and I suggest that the first year of primary school education is the best time for them to be diagnosed and picked out of the class. They ought not be picked out of the class in the sense of being put into special classes but they do need to be diagnosed so that their difficulties can be attended to by remedial teachers. Because of the nature of what remedial teachers try to do for the children they must have very small groups. There is no such thing as a remedial class in the ordinary sense of the word. It is impossible, I suggest, for them to come under the provisions of this Bill which deal with handicapped children and special schools. 
In the Bill special schools are defined in a way which, I suggest, excludes the setting up of remedial classes in the sense that I have referred to. To be effective the remedial teacher must diagnose the children early and then proceed with them in small groups and tackle the problem which each of them has. A start has been made in Queensland to remedy this defect. In my own electorate there are a number of remedial teachers seconded from the State Education Department who travel around from school to school. Of course there is not sufficient of them at this stage. Only recently has training in these techniques become at all widespread, so it is understandable that there would be some time lag before sufficient teachers are available in the remedial field. I mention the splendid work that the Schonell Centre at the University of Queensland has done in this regard. I think the staff of that centre were the pioneers in Australia of this type of work, and quite a number of teachers in Queensland and New South Wales schools have been trained at that centre. So it is with some concern that I view this Bill, as it makes no provision for education of teachers in this remedial area. 
If the Government is serious about making educational opportunities available to all, surely the place to start is at the primary level to make sure that children with specific learning difficulties, such as with reading or doing sums, have their difficulties remedied quickly so that they can take advantage of later years of education without feeling left behind. Primary education is most important, because if one does not get the grounding in the primary school all else that one may be taught in the secondary school is meaningless. We are building on shifting sands unless the primary education has been sound. 
I move to another subject - the question of local participation in the policy making of schools. I think there is a general recognition in Australia today that more community use needs to be made of the facilities provided at schools. Swimming pools, tennis courts, ovals and libraries are all facilities provided at schools at great expense, but they are used for only a very small part of the year, if one takes into account night time and weekends as well. If the governing bodies of schools were somewhat smaller than they are now and if there were more localised regional governing bodies, I believe it would be possible for the community to be much more directly involved in the schools, and the facilities provided at the schools could be made available for wider use. In the United Kingdom, for example, education is a responsibility of local government. The local school board is responsible for the staffing and the educational program applied in the schools. In Australia we have become accustomed to a monolithic State education department staffing and organising the curriculum of schools within a State. In Queensland there has been some breaking down of this large scale administration. Smaller regional administrative areas have been established, and I think this has worked towards the betterment of education in Queensland. It provides a greater opportunity for teachers themselves to be involved in curriculum planning and also gives them a greater flexibility in the way in which the school programs are to be arranged. 
But if we were to go even further than what has been done now and involve the local community directly in the schools, several advantages would flow from it. First of all, I believe that there would be greater stability of staff in the schools, because if the educational area is smaller the schools generally will be staffed by persons who live in the region and who would have a vested interest in remaining at a school in that local area. This would be of great advantage to the pupils of the schools, because frequent turnover of staff is one of the big complaints that parents have about education today. It is impossible for children to receive a proper education when, as has happened in schools in my electorate on occasions, a teacher change is made 3 times in the course of one term. If the administrative area is much more localised, I believe that there will be greater opportunities for innovation by the staff and for teaching techniques to be used, because a lot of the red tape would be cut away. Instead of having to go through many channels to persuade the headquarters of the administrative body that something one wanted to do was good, one would go through fewer channels in order to persuade the local governing body that a particular project was worth trying. 
I welcome the opportunity under the present Bill for pilot schemes to try out some of these methods. Special project grants could be provided for smaller administrative areas of this sort to be set up to try to innovate in terms of technique and curriculum. It is significant, I think, that some of the advanced techniques in education in the United Kingdom were tried and tested in the smaller educational authorities. Once they had been tested there they spread to the broader fields. I would believe and I would hope that pilot projects financed under this Bill would lead to much the same innovation and broadening in future years. 
The provisions of the Bill dealing with in-service teacher training are, I think, to be welcomed. With rapid changes in the way in which educational material is presented to students it is important that teachers keep abreast of it. Modern aids and modern techniques used in schools today are far different from those which were used when most members of this House were going through the educational process. We cannot really understand the way in which some mathematics are taught in the schools these days or in fact the way in which reading is taught, but these techniques are necessary if we are to progress and improve the quality of education which is offered in Australian schools. It is necessary also, I believe, that these modern techniques should be constantly evaluated and tested to make sure that they are not just following a pattern that has been set abroad - a pattern which sometimes may have been found to be wanting many years before the ideas trickled into the educational system in Australia. So I think we have to be constantly upgrading our techniques and constantly evaluating the methods which are already being used. 
If I may I will just mention the grants available for teacher education centres. These are something of an innovation. I welcome the innovation. I can see that good will come from them. I envisage that a teacher education centre, as indicated in this Bill, would be a place where teachers in a small localised area would be able to go and see the latest books which are available on their particular subject, where they could see the latest audio-visual aids which are available and where someone from the Department of Education would be available at all times to explain to the teachers the various techniques which are available at present. These centres would provide also a good opportunity for teachers to get together in their spare time, after school hours perhaps or at weekends, when they could exchange views, because very often teachers become somewhat inbred, depending on the school to which they are attached. I would hope that these teacher education centres would be open also for teachers at non-government schools. 
Thank you. I am indebted for that interjection. I had overlooked that. This will provide an opportunity for government and non-government teachers to get together in a somewhat less formal atmosphere where matters of mutual concern in education can be discussed, I am sure to the advantage of both. 
I deal briefly now with the criticisms that I have of the Bill. The program mentioned in the Bill is limited to a 2-year period. While one can understand that the Government wants to fix the financial commitment to a 2-year period it does, I think, impose some problems in regard to building approvals and forward planning because the provisions of this Bill make it quite clear that a building has to be approved and built within this 2-year period. You cannot have a situation where a building may be approved but not gone on with in the 2-year period. I think this means that pressure will be put on the schools, both government and non-government, to bring forward their building programs in the 2-year period, although they will not know once the 2-year period has gone by what their future prospects will be. 
The second criticism I would offer of the Bill deals with the recurrent expenditure grants. These are required by the Bill to be allocated between schools, both government and non-government, on the basis of need. The Bill has no definition of what constitutes relevant need for this purpose. In that respect I think the concept is vague. It leaves to the Minister an enormous discretion which I think ought not to be allowed in a Bill of this sort. The concept of need, to which the Karmel Committee addressed itself, when it is applied to recurrent expenditure can create difficulty. It is very easy to make an assessment of a school's needs in terms of permanent building projects. It is very easy to say that a school needs a library, a swimming pool or extra classrooms. They are questions in respect of which need can be quite clearly established. But when one talks of recurrent expenditure, in my submission it is unworkable to talk in terms of need. 
The third criticism I would offer of this Bill is the limitation that it places on building grants, firstly, to government schools for the upgrading of old buildings. The money provided under this Bill has to be used exclusively for that purpose. It is not being provided for the building of new schools. I think that this unduly hampers the freedom of the State educational authorities. I think it would be fair to say that in Queensland the pressure for schools comes from the growing suburbs where the child population is very high. In areas in my own electorate where the infant population is very high, new schools have to be provided quickly and existing schools have to be expanded very quickly in order to keep up with the increase in the number of children. The limitation placed on the money which is to be made available under this Bill would be unduly restrictive, I think, on State government buildings. 
As far as non-government schools are concerned, the Bill requires that 50 per cent of the money made available under this Bill should be used for upgrading old buildings. Only 50 per cent is to be made available for increasing enrolments. I think once again that this is restrictive. Under the previous legislation 70 per cent of the money granted could be used for increasing the enrolment of private schools, and 30 per cent was required to be used for upgrading purposes. I think that those, proportions are more reasonable in the circumstances. The reduction to 50 per cent under, this Bill could mean that some non-government schools will be restricted in their expansion programs. 
The fourth criticism that I would offer of this Bill, in brief, relates to clause 15, which gives the Minister power to place nongovernment, non-systemic schools into categories. The Minister's discretion in this regard is absolute. No guidelines are laid down in the Bill against which any school could test whether the Minister had been fair in putting it in a particular category. Also, no opportunity is provided in the legislation for the Minister to review the categorisation of schools once his initial determination has been made. I will support the amendment on this point which has been foreshadowed by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I think it only proper that the Minister should have some system of review so that schools which are dissatisfied with categories in which the Minister has put them can take some steps to have themselves reclassified. It would be wrong for the Minister to make one determination for a whole 2-year period because the Karmel Committee report itself seems to envisage that as schools upgrade their facilities they may fall in category. This thinking is not translated into clause 15 of this Bill. 
The last point of criticism that I would make about the Bill relates to the gathering of statistical and other information. I do not know what other information the Minister could properly require. One would have thought that it is only statistical material which could properly be sought. We will have to wait for the regulations in order to decide whether the other material which is sought is proper and what our attitude should be at that time. But I simply issue this note of warning: This requirement could provide the Government with an avenue for drawing controls tighter and tighter over the schools system in Australia. In view of what I have said about community participation in schools, I would regard any tightening of control in Canberra as a retrograde step on the educational scene. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The Schools Commission is empowered to obtain statistical and other information on which it can judge the improvement in quality resulting from these grants. 
If that is the purpose of the information then I would regard it as a legitimate purpose because, as I said when I commenced this speech, we should be concerned with the quality of education provided in schools. We should be constantly evaluating to make sure that the money provided for education in this and other Bills is properly put to the purpose and that the quality of the product, the end result, is worth the money being spent. 
asked the Minister for Civil 
Aviation the following question, upon notice: 
Did a Boeing jet aircraft carrying the Prime Minister and his party on their trip to Japan leave Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport on the evening of Thursday, 25 October 1973. 
Did the aircraft leave Sydney at 11.08 p.m. 
If the position is as stated, was it in breach of the Airport curfew; if so, under what circumstances will he allow the curfew to be broken in future. 
It would be churlish of me not to congratulate the Minister for Uiban and Regional Development (Mr Uren) on being the first Commonwealth Minister to bring the Commonwealth into planning for cities. Whether the methods which he intends to use will be successful. I think it is irrefutable that now the Commonwealth is deeply involved in what is happening in the cities, both old and new. Whatever change of political circumstances may come about, I think that the Commonwealth's involvement in this area must continue and will continue to expand in the years ahead. However, I think that the Minister's Department has not yet settled down to a classification of the programs which it wants to implement. The Minister, in his second reading speech on the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill said: 
The Government is committed to a direct and continuing involvement in cities, old and new. 
A little later he said: 
New cities are designed to reduce population pressure on existing cities. 
He referred to what he called regional growth centres. I think that there are probably 4 classifications which could be used with greater advantage and greater clarity. Firstly, there are new towns. They are certainly created to reduce population pressures on existing cities. New towns require a different approach and have different problems to solve in their development. The second type of classification is expanded towns. If I might say so, the Albury-Wodonga project would fall into this category because there already is an urban existence in Albury and in Wodonga. The Minister proposes to expand this town into a much larger town with a population of some 300,000. I believe that this is the most difficult sort of project to undertake, and I will say more about that when I deal with the Bill. 
The third type of classification is a project involving urban renewal in the inner city areas. The inner city areas of most of the capital cities have run down over the years. They require massive injections of money to assist in buying back land that has passed into seperate ownerships, to bring them into larger agglomerations and thus provide them with all the expertise and techniques that are available to us now. This means that more people will be brought back into the urban centre and this will create a more vital inner city. 
The fourth classification I suggest is suburban assistance. This covers the project of the rapidly developing suburban areas where what is needed is Commonwealth money to assist in providing public services which have fallen behind on account of the rapidity of development - things like sewerage, the provision of schools and public libraries and particularly the provision of open space. Very often local councils on the perimeters of cities find that there is a spill-over of 'population into the outer area and it all happens very quickly. Of course, a small local council does not have the finance to cope with the increase in facilities that are required when subdivisions occur at such a rapid rate. Most of them have town plans which are admirable; most of them have provision in their town plans and zoning schemes for open space and public purpose lands; but they do not have the money to acquire these when they are needed. So I see that the fourth classification would be for the Commonwealth Government to provide money to assist in the acquisition of those facilities within the framework of already existing town planning. 
Let me briefly give my view of the Commonwealth's role in this field. I see it as a threefold role. The first is to provide teams of experts which could be made available to the States and local government bodies to help with planning and development of new projects. The cost of assembling expert teams of this sort is very high and it is beyond the means of most local councils in Australia. Assistance from the Commonwealth level would be most welcome. The second role for the Commonwealth is to provide money for urban projects. The third is to provide the staff necessary for development corporations where these are required. In my view, development corporations would be required where a new town or an expanded town was being established. 
Let me now come to the project which is in fact a pilot project for the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and his Department. I refer to Albury and Wodonga. Without wishing to put the kiss of death on the project at this stage may I perhaps issue a word of caution. I think that Albury-Wodonga is an unhappy choice for the first pilot project. It is an inland city, and everyone knows that the establishment of facilities is far more expensive in the inland than it is on the coast. Also, inland cities have problems with regard to the supply of essential services such as water. That leads on to the second problem which, in my view, means that this is an unhappy choice. 
Water control on the Murray River must be an important and worrying consideration for the Department in developing Albury-Wodonga as a city of 300,000 people. Only last week a newspaper article drew attention to the problem of water pollution at Mildura. This must be a serious problem. This morning the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  tabled the minutes of a meeting between himself and the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria. At the meeting the main question debated was the quality of the water in the Murray River and the serious problem that exists there with regard to the salinity of the water. Other problems which were also discussed concerned the establishing of a very large city on the Murray River whose waters are required further down, for both irrigation and urban uses. This creates an additional problem for anyone developing a city in this situation. 
The third objection - one which I find most puzzling - is that the Government has selected as its pilot project a city which has all the problems one could possibly think of. There are 2 State governments to deal with; there are 2 local authorities to deal with; and they are all in the centre of the inland area. With that sort of arrangement, trying to obtain agreement on what is to be done in the development of Albury-Wodonga will be a job for a magician. I make a comment in passing on the agreement, which is a schedule to the Act. It looks as though it were drawn up at a Mad Hatter's Tea Party on the Murray under a gum tree. It provides for the establishment of a Commonwealth Development Corporation, a New South Wales Development Corporation and a Victorian Development Corporation. Then there is the curious business of the Ministerial Council. Nothing can be done unless the Ministerial Council comes to a unanimous decision. With these complications I would think that the Ministerial Council should have thought the thing through before it reached any agreement at all. The Minister is shaking his head. I have no doubt that they had great difficulties at this particular tea party. But the point I am making is that the Government has made this selection which has nothing to recommend it at all. Its tremendous administrative problems could have been overcome if the Government had selected a site and dealt with only one State government. That would have been a very much easier task in providing the pilot operation for the types of new cities and expanded cities that the Government wants to produce. 
I hope that, as the Minister and his Department gain more experience in the development of new towns, they will arrive at agreements with the States- I hope that the States will be more sensible in their approach to these matters as well - and that more sanity will prevail and a more reasoned and balanced agreement will be arrived at. In my view, there ought to be one development corporation. The development corporation ought to be vested with power to plan and develop the area. It ought to be relatively free from ministerial veto at every turn. It ought to be able to proceed with the planning and development of the area. At the end of it all it ought to be able to hand the area over to some form of local government. This is one of the things which I fear has not really been thought out by the Ministerial Council in relation to Albury-Wodonga. What will happen to AlburyWodonga when it is fully developed by whichever of the 3 development corporations does the job? What form of local government will take the place of the development corporations? The development corporations cannot go on for ever. At some stage they must be wound up. Local government must be established in this area. This is one of the critical things that certainly should be agreed on before things proceed too much further. 
I commend to the Minister's attention the provisions of the Bill for Treasury advances to the development corporation. I think that this is a sensible way to go about it. I also urge the Minister to ensure that the Development Corporation keeps proper accounts, because we know that here in Canberra a lot of the development has been paid for by taxpayers' money and no one has any idea how much it has cost. I believe that new towns and expanded towns can be developed in Australia with the assistance of a Treasury advance of some millions of dollars in the first instance. After that the Development Corporation ought to be self financing out of sales of developed land and so on, because in the future the Development Corporation will have the advantage of the rising prices of land in the developed area and ought to be able to break even at least, if not to show a small profit on the Treasury advance. This is something which the Minister ought to keep firmly in mind, to make sure that the accounts are properly kept so that the people of Australia and honourable members can see every year exactly how much money is being spent on this project and how much revenue is being returned from it. I envisage that we would expect this program to cost the Australian taxpayer millions of dollars in direct Treasury advances and in subsidies of various sorts. If we are to establish new cities, we have to accept that. Industry will not go and establish in such new cities unless some inducements by way of financial and tax concessions are offered to it. So we must expect that a considerable amount of money will be spent. 
I wish to speak briefly about the land commissions which seem to be associated with the Albury-Wodonga project. They do not come in directly in that development project but they are associated in general terms in one of the Bills that we are discussing here tonight. I do not know what purpose the land commissions will really serve. The Minister said in his second reading speech that their purpose is three-fold. He said that we want to allow areas to be comprehensively planned and developed. I agree with him in that. I think that in most cases it is proper that a development corporation should acquire the land in large lumps if the development is to proceed in an orderly fashion. I am not quite so sure whether it is necessary for the development corporation to acquire all the land within a designated area. It may be possible for the development corporation to acquire only essential public sections of the land in a development plan and allow others to develop privately. I do not know. This is something which perhaps experience will show us and on which the reports of the department will enlighten us as the years go by. 
The other point I mention is the acquisition of land. I agree with the Minister that it is reasonable that once an area has been designated as a growth area the owners of land within that designated area should not be unjustly enriched as a result of Government money being spent in developing the project. But on the other hand, I do not believe that owners in the designated area should have to wait up to 10 years before they are paid compensation for the land which was compulsorily acquired from them. I would like to see a reduction in the period for which compensation could be withheld. I would like to see the period reduced to, say, 3 years so that the development corporation, once it has decided to develop an area, could move in and compulsorily acquire all the land which it needed within 3 years of the declaration of the designated area. I think that this would resolve some of the problems which are now causing concern. 
One of the other objects of the land commission, according to the Minister's second reading speech, was that the Government wanted to make land available at fair prices. I notice that the Minister used the expression at fair prices'. He has not said that he wants to make land available to people at prices which are less than they can obtain land for now. I think that he is very sensible in doing that because the price of land today contains a very high component for development costs. The price for the raw land will be the same to the Minister's land commission as it will be to the private developer. The development costs of the land will be the same to the Minister's land commission as they will be to the private developer. One would imagine that the margin of profit would be somewhere in the same vicinity if the corporation has development funds with which to finance its own projects. The only thing which the commission will not have to face but which private developers do have to face is the very high rates of interest that have to be paid between the period when the land is bought and the time when ultimately it is sold. Those interest charges may add $500, $600, or $700 to the cost of a block of land, depending on how long it takes for the council concerned to approve of the subdivision and for the property to be sold. So I do not think there will be very much difference in the price of the land which is released by the Minister's land commission, if the commission is to make available fully serviced land for the home buyer. I know that other members on this side of the House want to speak, so I will not say anything more about these Bills now. I may get an opportunity to make a few passing comments on various clauses when the Bills are considered in the Committee stage. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has just treated us to a tirade on rising land prices. Curiously enough, he gave us examples only from Sydney. Here in Canberra, where the Federal Government has complete control, land prices have spiralled more than in any other part of Australia. Land in Canberra is leasehold, and the Minister wants to have the. leasehold basis adopted in every part of the Commonwealth. In Canberra nothing other than an ordinance is needed to control land prices. Why has the Minister not done something about Canberra's rising land prices instead of issuing a tirade about New South Wales and other places? Why have, the States that are controlled by Labor governments not controlled land prices? Land prices are rising in every Australian capital, not just those that enjoy the prosperity of Liberal-Country Party governments. 
The campaign being run by the Government on the referendums on prices and incomes is a shabby sequel to the campaign it ran last December under the slogan 'It's Time'. No one knew what 'It's Time' meant or what policies Labor was espousing. Millions of people in this country today are reeling under the shock of discovering some of the actions for which they were supposed to have given a mandate to the Government under the silly slogan 'It's Time'. This afternoon, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  used the same bland rhetoric and said: 'Go into a supermarket and ask a housewife whether she is happy about prices.' Of course, she is not. The Treasurer said that something must be done about prices. Of course, something must be done about prices, but it is curious that, every time a Labor Government is in power in Canberra, it finds that its constitutional powers are insufficient for it to handle the economy. 
In 1948, the Labor Government wanted power to control prices. The Government had this power in the early stages of its administration, during the war, and wanted to continue it after the war. The Government went to the people with a referendum on that occasion. The Australian people had had enough of the Labor Government, of rationing and of wartime price control. They had 23 years of of Liberal-Country Party Government that brought Australia to a stage of development that was inconceivable in 1948 under the heavy hand of the Labor Government, and that put prosperity into the pockets of the ordinary people. How many people in Australia now own their home who would not have owned it previously? How many people in Australia own a motor vehicle or 2 motor vehicles, a house at the beach, a car and a caravan in the yard? I am speaking not only of good blue-ribbon Liberal electorates such as Kooyong or Wentworth. 
Let honourable members go into these suburban areas about which the Australian Labor Party cries poor mouth so frequently, into the western suburbs of Sydney and the western and southern suburbs of Brisbane. Let them walk around .the streets to find out how many people have more than one car in the garage, how many people have a boat on a trailer sitting in the front yard, and how many people have a caravan. They have those things because they had good sensible government, for 23 years. There was no price control and no problems with inflation during that time. There were a few minor problems, but they were fixed with the ordinary monetary and fiscal policies. Now we have a Labor Government and inflation is running at 14 per cent, on a conservative estimate, and rising and the Government says: 'We do not have enough power. Let us do something about prices'. 
I am indebted to the interjection of the honourable member for Wakefield. It is courage that honourable members opposite need- courage to offend some of their vested interests, some of the people in the trade union movement who want to use ordinary trade union people to exploit political advantage for themselves. What about all those thousands of workers who were thrown out of work during the electricity strike in New South Wales, their lost wages and the lost production that was involved? Does the militant trade union leadership care a fig about them? Of course not. The same section of the Labor movement is forcing this Government to back down on any sort of control of incomes. Certainly there is going to be a question on the ballot paper proposing to give the Commonwealth Government power over incomes, but does anyone in this House seriously suggest that the Government would dare to do anything about over-award payments and about other things that are mentioned in the Winter report? Of course they would not. What we are being treated to now is simply a charade. 'Give us power over prices', pleads the Treasurer. 'Give us power over prices', says  Mr Whitlam,  'and we will fix it'. What encouragement have the Australian people received over the last 12 months of Labor government to believe in any promises or vague statements of honourable members opposite? Certainly they are not encouraged in this direction. 
We want to know now in this debate what the Government proposes to do about prices. The Australian people are facing a referendum on Saturday which will change the whole course of their future if they vote Yes, Yes, and accept a vague promise of 'Let us do something about prices'. But it is time the Government told the House and the people exactly what it proposes to do about prices. The Prime Minister has said that he will be selective. Is he going to concentrate on food prices? If so, let us have a quick look at what might happen there. Meat and potatoes are 2 food items which have contributed very largely in the last 12 months to the rise in the food price index. There is a shortage of meat throughout the world and in Australia. Is not the way to combat rising meat prices to boost meat production, to put more beef on to the market? This Government has done nothing but try to dissuade primary producers from going about the ordinary business of producing food. If the Government imposes price control on meat it will become unattractive for meat producers to expand their production. It will become unattractive for them even to continue their present production rates. They will move to other areas that are more lucrative. What will happen then? We will be faced with even shorter supplies of meat and the prices will have to go up for people wanting to buy it. What about potatoes? Are we to have an artificial ceiling price on potatoes. If so, what will happen then? Instead of encouraging production of more potatoes for the market, the Government will restrict the profit margin of the potato grower and discourage him from growing potatoes. 
Let us look at some of the other figments of the Government's imagination. The Government tells us that we have had a massive onslaught on inflation since it came to office. It has referred to a 25 per cent across the board tariff cut. I defy any member of this House to produce one imported item that has dropped in price in Australia since the tariff cuts were introduced. 
The honourable member for Adelaide is interjecting. He is  chairman  of a committee which is making another massive onslaught on inflation. In a period of 9 months or 10 months the honourable gentleman's Joint Committee on Prices has produced 2 reports. One is on meat prices, which was absolute rubbish, and another one, which was presented today is on the price of carpet tiles. What a massive onslaught on inflation! This is the sort of nonsense to which the people of Australia have been treated during the course of the referendum campaign. I hope that in the course of this debate we have been able to rouse the Australian people to the dangers of voting Yes, Yes to give these powers to a Government that does nothing but think in terms of vague slogans while it is after the people's vote and then puts the boot in afterwards. 
I think the request made by my colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is perfectly reasonable. The way in which the Minister for Secondary Industry has fobbed off the honourable member for Mackellar is disgraceful and it leads to one of two conclusions- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Does the Attorney-General propose to engage American lawyers to assist in drafting legislation on restrictive trade practices and Aboriginal land rights. 
If so, what are the names, qualifications, terms of employment, periods of employment, salaries and/or expenses of each of them. 
What secretarial or research staff will be provided for each of them. 
The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  has given us the usual hysterical speech. He assumes that the quality of the speech is gauged by the number of words per minute that gush forth. He completely misunderstands the purpose of the motion. He deliberately assumes, as the Labor Government unfortunately seems to have a penchant for assuming, that the majority of Australians are on its side. The Minister assumes that the majority of Australians want a national anthem other than the one that is played at the present time. There is no support for that. In fact the gallup polls would seem to suggest that a majority of Australians would not like to see any change at the present time. But the Minister's approach to the motion has the same sort of logic behind it as Henry Ford did. Henry Ford said: 'You can have a car of any colour provided it is black'. The Minister says: 'You can have any national anthem provided it is one of the three about which we are asking you*. 
But not the present one, as my colleague says. All that the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  who moved this motion, and I, as the seconder, ask is that the Australian people be consulted on this matter of importance. There are many matters on which the Australian people are to be consulted by way of referendum both this coming Saturday and in the future at enormous cost. I think about $3m will be required to run the referendum next Saturday. Goodness knows how many millions will be required to run the referenda with which we have been threatened for next year. These are to decide matters that, I would venture to suggest, the majority of Australians could not care less about. But when we move into an area of emotional feeling, such as is involved with a national anthem, I feel that the people are interested and concerned and that they ought to be consulted in the same way as they are to be consulted on these other matters which the Labor Government considered important to it, but which the Australian people probably will not consider to be very important at all. 
There are several points to be made in relation to the national anthem. Firstly, I think we would accept that it is quite true that 
God Save the Queen' is more in the nature of a royal anthem rather than a national song. But of course it comes back to the concept that Australia has a constitutional monarchy as in the United Kingdom. Our head of state is a constitutional monarch and the national anthem is in fact an expression of goodwill by the people towards that constitutional monarch. Consequently, the national anthem is more in the nature of a royal anthem. There are circumstances in which it is appropriate that royal anthems be played in order to symbolise a unity of the nation under the Crown. But this does not apply to republics, for example. In such circumstances national anthems take on a different connotation. 
If we are to consider Australia as a republic I think the people ought to be consulted about that also. I do not particularly mind whether the majority of people think Australia ought to be a republic dr whether it ought to remain as a constitutional monarchy. I have some personal preferences, but my point is that if there is to be a change of such magnitude everybody in Australia ought to be consulted about it. The Government ought not to resort to a shabby device of running a sample poll of 60,000 people to determine what is to be the national anthem. It is like consulting taxi drivers as to what national policy ought to be or taking a random sample of that sort as a basis for legislation. 
The question of a national anthem cannot be resolved simply by running a competition. I think the efforts of the Government have proved that point very clearly. A competition has been held to determine the verse or words of the national anthem and that has proved to be a singular disaster. All that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  could say after that competition was that we have not yet had the competition for the music and perhaps we might be able to get a better result from the composers. The competition for the music has been held and no one seems to have come up with a suitable anthem tune. The point is that national anthems cannot be concocted. The United States of America national anthem evolved as a song during that country's struggle for independence; it was not as a result of a competition. It was something that grew up, and the country accepted it as being uniquely its own. 
The same can be said about the French national anthem, the 'Marseillaise'. That song started in the south of France as a marching song of some of the revolutionaries. It spread across the country and captured the imagination of the people. No song in Australia has the same sort of history, other than, perhaps, Waltzing Matilda'. There may be some circumstances in which 'Waltzing Matilda' would be an appropriate Australian song to play. I do not want to continue my remarks for much longer because I know that other speakers want to express an opinion. But I think that the points I have made are important. As the seconder of this motion I think that the point ought to be made clear that the Government should not gloss over the intention of the motion. The mover and the seconder did not say that 'God Save the Queen' ought to remain as our national anthem. We say that the Australian citizens - all of them - ought to be consulted if a change is to be made and that they ought to be given the option of saying that they want 'God Save the Queen' retained as our national anthem. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many persons were appointed to the Third Division of the Australian Public Service in each of the years 1970, 1971 and 1972. 
How many of those appointed were transferred or promoted from the Fourth Division of the Service in each of those years. 
How many Fourth Division officers sat for the Commonwealth Selection Test in an attempt to obtain a position in the Third Division in each of those years. 
How many of these were transferred or promoted to the Third Division in each of those years. 
How many Fourth Division Officers, educationally qualified for entry into the Third Division, and who have sat for the Commonwealth Selection Test, have still not been appointed to the Third Division as at 31 August 1973. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a recent report in the United States of America which points to some relationship between smallpox injections of children and multiple sclerosis in later life. 
If so, have officers of his Department studied the report. 
Will he inform the House of the results of his Department's study of this report. 
The debate on the Post Office- 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
I also protest about this procedure. It is all very well to say that these Bills were partially debated last year but I have not seen them. The Bills have not been circulated as yet so how do members know whether they are in exactly the same terms as the Bills which were before the House last year? In connection with the fifth Bill it is suggested that we should read it overnight and debate it tomorrow. Are we to consider it while other debates proceed? The House will rise tonight at 11 o'clock. I understand that the fifth Bill is rather lengthy, will take some reading and that it will take a considerable amount of time to digest its implications. To suggest that members will be informed and able to participate in any intelligent way in a debate on this Bill by tomorrow is ludricous, particularly in view of other work which the House has in front of it. I do not think, just because the Government gets a notion on the spur of the moment that it wants to do something that honourable members should be bulldozed into debating it as a matter of national importance. So many of these matters which the Government has introduced as urgent have proved not to be urgent at all when examined. 
It has been suggested that this time table is necessary because of a desire on the part of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to hold all these referendums at the time of the Senate election. He has not announced the date of the Senate election so how do we know whether it is urgent to have these Bills panicked through the House at this point? If he were fair dinkum about it the Prime Minister would announce the date of the Senate election. He would then let us know the time table for getting these Bills through the House and to the Senate so that the questions could appear on ballot papers at the time of the Senate election. If he were fair and open to members of this House that is the course he should propose. He should not bring in the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  as a hatchet man to force these measures through without adequate time for members to read the Bills and without adequate discussion of their implications. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  is disgraceful. This afternoon he sought the indulgence of honourable members on this side of the House to have a cognate debate on 5 Bills. If it was his intention to curtail debate by bringing down the guillotine and rushing these bills through, why did he not make that statement this afternoon? Why did he not tell us about his timetable at the time we agreed to have a cognate debate on these matters? The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  put this question to the Minister through the Chair: 'Are we to have adequate time to debate these Bills in Committee?' Obviously the answer is no. The Minister sat at the table and assured us that under the Standing Orders all the Bills would be discussed in Committee and votes would be taken. If that has not proved to be deception within the short space of a few hours, I do not know what it is. 
It is typical that in these matters members of the Government Party do not tell people the whole of their plans. They tell a little at a time, hoping that no one will sit down and put the parts of the puzzle together until it is too late. As I said earlier this afternoon, a fifth and completely new Bill was introduced. How were we expected to read it? Were we expected to read it during the suspension of the sitting for dinner and in the course of the debate tonight iri order to understand all its ramifications? Now we are not to be given an opportunity to debate it at all because presumably the timetable will not allow us to do so. The Constitution is a document which has served governments of all political persuasions over the last 74 years. Suddenly, with the advent of the Whitlam Government, it has become necessary to amend it no fewer than 7 times, and each time the change is said to be urgent and pressing. It has been said: 'We have to do it in a hurry'. 
A few minutes ago the Leader of the House spoke about democracy and masqueraded as the great father of democracy in Australia. I believe that democracy would best be served by allowing the elected representatives of the people in this House to discuss measures which ultimately will be put to them for decision. What is the use of having a parliament if members cannot express their views? What is the use of having a parliament at all if we are not allowed to read the Bills and to understand them before they are forced through this chamber? As the honourable member for Mackellar said, democracy is kept alive in Australia under this Government by the activities of the Senate. 
One has only to cast a glance at some of these Bills to see that their ultimate purpose is to try to downgrade the power of the Senate so that all political power in Australia will be placed in the hands of the Whitlam Government, if there is half a chance. I have no doubt that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who moved the motion we are discussing, has prepared maps for electoral redistribution and I will bet a fiver that they do not favour the Opposition parties. This is another demonstration of the principle of one step at a time. An insidious approach is used to beguile the Australian electorate into thinking that action is necessary and urgent. I assure the Minister that the people of this country have survived quite adequately for 74 years without the measures that this Government is now introducing. We should protest the motion of the Leader of the House. If he wants to use this brutal sort of tactic in the House, he ought not to expect any co-operation from private members on this side of the chamber. 
Will the Minister representing the Attorney-General arrange to table in the House as soon as possible the prosecutor's brief in the McLeod case? If not, why not? 
The Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1974 is a rather interesting Bill. The policy of the Australian Labor Party is to do away with the Senate altogether. It knows that if it put that question to a referendum it would be trounced. This Bill is an attempt to emasculate the Senate and bring it down simply to the level of a duplicate of the House of Representatives. The whole purpose of the Senate is to provide a chamber which has a longer tenure of office than the House of Representatives, where its members have a longer time in which to concentrate on legislation. The House of Representatives, being elected for a 3-year or shorter period must of necessity be constantly looking towards the next election whereas the senators with a longer span are able to make a more balanced approach to legislation. 
Reducing the Senate to a duplicate and having senators elected for the same period of office as members of the House of Representatives would mean that the Senate would serve no useful purpose at all. I suggest this action will be the first step in a campaign by the Labor Party to convince the Australian people that there is no need for the Senate at all. Also, the argument was put just a few minutes ago by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the Committee stage that the reason for this Bill is to make sure that elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate are held on the same day. He cited the instance of the United States of America where by its constitutional arrangements all elections are held in December of whatever year it might be. The first or second Saturday in December is election day and all elections are held on that day. 
If the Prime Minister seriously wants to achieve that objective he can achieve it simply by fixing a statutory date for commencement of terms for the House of Representatives and making it coincide, with an election date for the Senate. We would then be aligned with the American situation. But for obvious reasons the Government does not want a proposal such as that because it wants to be able to go to the people when it thinks the public opinion polls are favouring it. It wants to be able to go to the people with an election when it thinks that it can sufficiently bribe the people by largess from the public purse. It wants to be able to manipulate the date on which an election is to be held. But if the Government is serious about having elections on the one day, it could achieve this without trying to annihilate the Senate. 
That brings us back to the real intention of the Bill, that is, the first step towards convincing the Australian people that the Senate serves no useful purpose and ought to be abolished. It is for this reason that the intention in the title of the Bill is misleading, and grossly misleading. If one did not respect the Prime Minister's integrity one might even say that it is fraudulent to go to the people and try to persuade them to vote for a Bill which the Government knows is but the first step towards achieving its objective of annihilating the Senate and reducing government in Australia simply to government by decree, which is what would happen. 
We have the instance of the Brisbane City Council which is controlled by the Labor Party. There is one opposition member in that Council and the numbers are used with ruthless monotony. The Brisbane City Council sits each week for approximately two or three minutes. Nothing is discussed in the council chamber. If the Senate is abolished the Parliament of Australia will be treated by the Government with the same contempt as that with which the Lord Mayor of Brisbane treats the Brisbane City Council. If the Government had the numbers in a unicameral legislature we would not sit here for so long; we would be here for 2 minutes a week. That is the purpose of this Bill. I hope that when we come to the stage of taking this Bill to the people these points will be made perfectly clear. 1 am sure that when the numbers go up on the polling day when this referendum is submitted there will be a resounding 'No' vote in every State in Australia. 
Earlier in the debate the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  made some observations about the recent floods in Queensland. In his remarks he chose to become quite partisan and introduce party politics into something which I would regard as the misfortune of many Queenslanders. I am very sorry that he chose to do so. It is not unexpected, however, coming from the honourable member, knowing that other members of his Party in Queensland did exactly the same thing while the floodwaters were still raging through the main street of Brisbane. 
I do not want to speak about the floods tonight in any sense of trying to sheet home blame or responsibility for them. However, I do want to set the record straight in view of what the honourable member for Lilley said earlier. Actions, of course, speak much louder than words. We were told in the Queen's Speech that there was deep concern on the part of her Government for the loss of life and property in the recent floods in Queensland. At the time when Queenslanders were being afflicted by the most serious and devastating floods this century, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  showed quite clearly by his action that he preferred to take tea with oriental despots rather than to make a first hand tour of devastated areas in Brisbane. It is a matter of record that the Prime Minister did not choose to stop in Brisbane on his way to the East, as he could well have done if he was really concerned. He sent us instead the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  who arrived a couple of days after the floods had descended upon us. After a few hours of touring the flooded areas by helicopter and by motor car - from the photographs which appeared in the 'Courier Mail' the following day it would appear that he hardly got his feet wet - he offered us this remarkable observation which was printed in the 'Courier Mail': 
Many of the flooded areas have been zoned irresponsibly for housing and industrial development. zoning is a State responsibility and they will have to give local government power to exercise responsible zoning. 
That sentiment was echoed by the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Clem Jones, a few days later. 
He is indeed, yes. That sentiment was echoed also by no less a person than Jack Egerton, President of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council. 
And the ALP, as I am reminded by my friend from Griffith. If ever there was an attempt to whitewash the activities of the Labor controlled Brisbane City Council and to blacken the name of the Queensland State Government for the purpose of party political objectives, at a time when Queenslanders were suffering terribly, this must surely be it. This particular propaganda was put abroad in an attempt to imply that the Queensland State Government was responsible for the flooding that occurred by allowing people to build on flood plains and by allowing land adjacent to rivers to be used, which some mystic power of perception should have prevented it from doing that; and that the Brisbane City Council, which knew all this, would have prevented it had it had the power. I want to put the facts on record for the people of Australia. Two of the most recently developed suburbs in Brisbane - Jindalee and Bellbowrie - were developed under the auspices of Clem Jones and his Labor Council. This was a development permitted by the Council. We in Brisbane are familiar with the type of transactions which go on in order to get development permits in that city. During the recent floods Jindalee was one of the worst inundated suburbs of Brisbane. It is no wonder that the Lord Mayor sought to sheet home responsibility elsewhere in order to avoid any searching inquiry as to his responsibility in the matter. 
It certainly is. What makes it worse is that Jack Egerton was sitting as a member of the Town Planning Advisory Committee to that Council. It also approved these developments. If he has not a responsibility in the matter, I do not who has. As I have said, I do not want to conduct a witch hunt tonight to determine who is responsible for the damage which occurred in the flood. However, I point out that some of the suburbs which were inundated in this recent flood are older suburbs in the electorate of the honourable and learned member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  Yeronga and older suburbs in Griffith were populated while a Labor State government was in office. So, if it is a question of State government responsibility it comes back to the same source. As I said, I do not want to sheet home responsibility in any party political terms on a sensitive issue such as this: I just want to set the record straight about one or two comments which were made during the flood and repeated by the honourable member for Lilley in his speech in this debate. 
Of course, we had from the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  an observation which was most helpful. I recall that at the time that statement was made my honourable and learned friend from Moreton was out in a pair of shorts, paddling up to his knees - his neck on some occasions - in water, evacuating people from his electorate. The Minister told us, with a penetrating observation, that flood plains are meant for water, not for people. 
I am sure it did. This sort of sentiment that we got from the Labor Party will be remembered by people in Queensland for many years to come. It is significant also to point out that the Government waited for at least a week before any Minister of responsibility was sent to Brisbane to discuss the question of flood relief. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  arrived and, to give him his due, he approached the matter with a certain amount of public interest rather than simply seeking to play party politics. But he was in Brisbane a week after the flood. He was the first responsible Minister to do anything for the plight of Queenslanders. The Prime Minister honoured Brisbane with a night-time trip to the VIP lounge at Brisbane Airport some 19 days after the flood. 
Yes. He was interviewed by various people in the VIP lounge. He looked at a few aerial photographs. He refused to speak to reporters and left immediately. He was there for approximately 60 minutes. Needless to say, he is not too popular in Brisbane at present. That, of course, is one of the reasons for the sensitivity of the honourable member for Lilley. 
I move on from these matters of party politics, which were introduced by Government supporters, to point out one or two lessons which can be drawn from the recent flood experience. The first is that local people on the ground respond quickest to emergency situations. The local Red Cross, civil defence organisations, the police and the St Vincent de Paul Societies did tremendous work at very short notice. They were the first into the field. The Army also did a tremendous amount of work. Whilst there was an enormous amount of goodwill in the community by those who wanted to assist, the co-ordination at the top was not what it could have been. It was not to be unexpected, I suppose, that faced with a disaster of this magnitude the civil defence organisation was not geared to controlling it. Probably the experience of the recent floods will have done much in clearing the decks and making sure that further discussions are held to ensure that the chain of command in these emergency situations is clearly predetermined so that all people can be used to the best advantage as quickly as possible. Also there is a need for more accurate information on rainfall in the Brisbane Valley so that accurate information on flood levels lower down the river can be compiled and disseminated by the proper authorities. In Brisbane on this occasion there was a certain amount of confusion because of conflicting advice as to the level which the flood was expected to reach. If proper warnings had been given and proper estimates of flood levels had been available to the public, there would have been much less panic than there was and some people would have been shifted from their homes earlier than they were. 
The last lesson to be drawn from the experience of the flood is that there is need for some flood mitigation work on the Brisbane River itself. Whether the local council or the State Government was responsible for allowing people to build in these areas, it is undeniable that one cannot turn the clock back. We must take the situation as it is. This land is close to a metropolitan area. People will want to live there. It is unreasonable at this point of time to start on a program of buying back these properties and turning them again into flood plains. The only alternative to make sure that this type of disaster does not occur again is to press on urgently with flood mitigation schemes on the Brisbane River itself to reduce the level of future floods. The VVyvenhoe Dam, which has been begun, will satisfy this requirement in a measure, but other flood mitigation works on the Brisbane River need to be undertaken urgently in order to prevent recurrences of this disaster. Because of the immense cost involved the Commonwealth should contribute towards this scheme. Even if one takes a tightfisted view of the matter, the amount of money which the Government would spend on a proper flood mitigation program would be much less than the amount now being made available to rectify the damage done by the recent disaster. 
I move now from the question of the floods to another section of Her Majesty's Speech - the interesting statement that inflation is the most urgent domestic problem and that the Government will continue its efforts to contain it. It is difficult to pinpoint the efforts which the Government is making to contain inflation. Every time the Opposition seeks to have a debate on this interesting topic we are met with a certain amount of petulance from the Treasurer, who believes that inflation is not unique to Australia and that we can survive. Yet he makes no claim to put before us the program which the Government has initiated and which in his view will curb inflation. It has been a fits and starts sort of program which has produced no tangible effects whatever. Prices went up by 22 per cent last year. What are the Government's plans to keep food prices down? The Treasurer apparently does not know. If he does know, he is keeping it an extremely dark secret. 
The Minister says that we opposed the referendum. The people of Australia opposed the referendum and everyone who voted 'no' in the referendum was perfectly aware that the Government had within its power means of taking positive steps to control inflation which for reasons of its own it refused to use. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member for Prospect must withdraw that term. 
I want to complain once again about the practice which has grown up since this Government took office of announcing Government policies to the Press before they are announced to the Parliament. We have 2 classic examples this week where Government policy on major items has been announced at Press conferences or by Press handouts by Ministers, and there has as yet been no statement in the House on these matters. Last year I asked a question on notice of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which appears at page 119 of Hansard. I asked the Prime Minister whether he would ensure that during sittings of the Parliament all announcements of Government policy are made in the House simultaneously with their release to the Press so that members may be informed of Government policy before reading about it in the newspapers. The Prime Minister gave the following reply: 
Wherever possible I arrange for the Parliament to be informed ahead of announcement elsewhere of any new major policy decisions. To the best of my knowledge other members of the Government follow the same practice. 
A further question without notice was put to the Prime Minister by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  on 15 May 1973 in which he chastised the Prime Minister for announcing policy decisions at his news conference with members having to read about them in the Press the next day. The Prime Minister in reply to that question admitted that the honourable member had sought him out, because he realised that it is essential for parliamentary government that Government policy should be announced in this House so that it can be known by the members, so that it can be discussed and so that the public has an accurate record of Government intention on policy matters. 
I would now like to move on to the 2 breaches of this basic parliamentary practice which have taken place this week. I refer to the announcement by the Government on Monday, following a Cabinet decision, of its proposal to make interest on home loans tax deductions in certain cases. This was reported in newspapers on Tuesday morning. The House sat on Tuesday afternoon. There was no statement about this matter in the House on Tuesday. I thought that perhaps it was because we sat only in the afternoon and therefore a statement might be forthcoming from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  or from some other Minister today. I have waited all day in the hope that a statement would be made. I waited because there were some clarifications in the newspapers this morning of the policy which the Treasurer had announced on Monday. 
Yes, almost contradictions. If we are to gather from the newspapers what the Government's policy is, far from its being a benefit to millions of home owners as it was announced with a fanfare of trumpets on Tuesday morning in the newspapers, we can well find that it turns out to be the greatest swindle since the South Sea Bubble burst many years ago. This morning the Brisbane Courier-Mail' carried the story: 'Crean admits income error'. It is only in this morning's newspaper that the Treasurer tells the people of Australia that this scheme will work only on a family basis. In other words, if a man has a working wife her income is added to his income in order to assess eligibility for this tax deduction scheme. That is a glaring example of the inaccuracies and the inconsistencies of Government policy when it is announced through the newspapers. Over and over again we find that Government policy is leaked to newspapers before it is even announced by Cabinet after its meetings and certainly before it is ever announced in this Parliament. We are lucky in this House to find Government policy stated in the second reading speech of a Bill which implements that policy. 
If we have not caught up with what is contained in the newspapers we are completely unaware of what the Government is doing. Certainly the Prime Minister might say: 'Well, members get copies of the Press statements'. That is right, but we get those copies about a fortnight or a month after they have been issued to the newspapers and then, of course, the subject is a dead issue. It has been covered by the weekly or daily papers a week or a fortnight before and nobody in the newspaper world is interested in rehashing the old story; it is dead news. Once it is dead it is impossible to revive any interest in it by pointing out that the actual statements from Ministers are very often different from the stories let out in the newspapers. 
I would like to refer to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  because he has been guilty of 2 breaches of parliamentary practice in this regard. Before the House sat in February there was a story released in the newspapers that the Government was considering sharp rises in nursing home subsidies. This statement which received wide circulation in the newspapers buoyed up the hopes of many people who have relatives or friends in nursing homes, and who have been faced with rising nursing home fees since December last. They have been in the position where their pensions, if they are fully dependent on pensions, are insufficient to meet their nursing home care, particularly if they require intensive care. This announcement - and this is one of my complaints about this Government - is not attributed directly to the Minister. It is one of these anonymous leaks in which phrases such as "The Government is considering' and 'Sources close to the Government believe' are used. This is the sort of innuendo that goes on through the whole of government practice since this Government took office. 
It is a leak. One cannot get to the bottom of it. One cannot attack a Minister and say that he said such-and-such on a certain day because the Minister can say: 1 did not say that; it is a source close to the Government', or he can say: The newspaper story is inaccurate'. But we never find a Minister coming into this House to correct an impression that has been conveyed either deliberately or accidentally by members of his staff by circulation in newspapers. 
I recall when the Melbourne 'Sun' of 12 April 1973 carried a story on its front page under the heading: 'Canberra cash to peg council rates'. The newspaper carried a full page story which indicated that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr 
Uren) had made the suggestion that the Federal Government would start a multimillion dollar loan scheme to curb council rate rises. This report which appeared in a Melbourne newspaper was not contradicted by the Minister. In the course of a debate in this House on the Albury-Wodonga series of Bills I mentioned this and pointed it out to the House. The Minister immediately stood and said that it was an incorrect statement and I ought not to believe what I read in the newspapers. This comes to the very heart of the bad practice. Unless statements are made in the House where members can hear them, where what is said is recorded, and where one can hold Ministers to statements which they make in the House and sheet responsibility home to them, then parliamentary democracy in this country has arrived at a very sorry note. 
I come back to the Minister for Social Security. Notwithstanding the leak which was circulated about the nursing home benefit increase, which of course has turned out to be a complete furphy - the Minister has made a cruel hoax in buoying up the expectations of people who have been paying out over the months in order to keep their relatives in nursing homes - the Minister has made no statement about it. In fact, in answer to a letter I wrote to him on this subject he makes no statement of any intention on the part of the Government to review nursing home fees. This week he breached the procedure once again at question time. He was asked a staged question by one of his own members about aged persons housing. In answer to that question yesterday he made a major statement of Government policy in regard to home subsidies under those Bills. That is in gross disregard of standing order 144 which specifically states that questions should not ask Ministers to announce government policy, for the simple reason that those matters cannot be debated at question time. By failing to make statements in this House the Government is seeking to avoid any close examination and discussion of its policy. By putting its policy abroad in newspapers by unauthenticated leaks the Government also avoids any responsibility being sheeted home to it and gives itself ample opportunity to change its ground. 
Foreign aid is a sensitive subject. It is sensitive because whilst most people in Australia believe that we, as a relatively wealthy country, should contribute toward the betterment of social and economic conditions in neighbouring countries there can often be wide differences of opinion as to how that aid should be administered. I think it is probably generally recognised that the emphasis in any aid program should be on selfimprovement in the country to be helped. Our aid should provide a priming for the local pump. In fact the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his second reading speech looks to this new agency which the Bill establishes as developing innovative policies responsive to the needs of economic self-reliance and social justice in developing countries. That is a concept which no one in Australia would care to dispute, but when dealing with foreign aid in the long term what is needed is a high degree of tolerance plus a great degree of perseverance. If long term results are to be achieved on the basis enunciated by the Prime Minister we must approach the problem not only with idealistic views but also with practical concepts of the limitations that are placed on us. 
While Australia may be relatively wealthy it is not a country that has an inexhaustible pocket. As the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  would appreciate, it is simple for a country to turn from a position of relative strength as a trading country to a country with a balance of payments problem in a short space of time. Not only is it sensitive in terms of the money to be spent but foreign aid also presents a dilemma for governments because ultimately the Government has to persuade its voters - the people of Australia who support the Government - that the program is worth while. The dilemma that then raises its head is that the more realistic the effort a country is making in meeting is own problems the less aid it appears to need but the more it may be said it deserves it and, conversely, the less able a fist a country is making of its own domestic problems or perhaps the more ambitious its plans for expansion the less aid it may be said to deserve but the more aid it actually needs. 
If we are to consider aid programs in terms of the style of government which exists in the countries in our immediate region we again run into an extremely sensitive area because I venture to suggest that there are practically no political regimes in South East Asia which would meet with the universal support of Australians in general. There are regimes which are controlled by military juntas; regimes where Opposition parties are banned; regimes and governments which suppress newspapers and where people who speak against government policies are thrown into gaol. In our part of the world there is hardly a country which would have a comparable system of parliamentary government to that in Australia. Consequently if we were to restrict aid to countries that conformed to our concept of parliamentary democracy we would not be giving much assistance at all so I think that any consideration requires a large degree of tolerance. We must base our programs on the concept of trying to ensure social justice in the developing countries irrespective of the political complexion their governments may bear. 
This brings me to another point which the Prime Minister made in introducing this Bill. He suggested that the proposed agency would ensure that greater attention would be given to the way in which our aid program would be administered in the countries to which it was given - that it would be examined to make sure that the effect of our aid was to promote the welfare of the people of those countries. One can find numerous stories of aid being abused in countries to which Australia, along with other nations, have given aid - countries where graft and corruption is ingrained into the political system and where aid does not go to assist the people who need it but to lining the pockets of government officials who sell the goods or sell the money on the black market for their own profit. 
I think it is sensible that any aid program that Australia embarks on should have this check and safeguard imposed on it. We should be most concerned to make sure that our money is spent in the correct way and that it is benefiting the social wellbeing of the people in the country concerned. The other point made by the Prime Minister in introducing this Bill was that we should have an agency to conduct a continuing evaluation of the effectiveness of our various schemes. This again, I think, is a very sensible concept. Perhaps the Colombo Plan was very good when it started. The concept was that we would bring students to Australia and train them at the tertiary level so that they could then return to their countries and assist in their own local development. It has become apparent, I think, that students in Australia have been trained in a far more sophisticated environment than exists in their home countries and much of the training which they receive in Australia, while being very valuable to themselves personally, is not always able to be put to good use in their home countries when they return. 
To take one example, a student trained in medicine in an Australian university or a medical teaching hospital would find medical practice in most Asian countries entirely different. What is needed for medical students in Asian countries is greater emphasis on matters of public health and community medicine where sophisticated surgery techniques and other drugs are not available and where some improvision in the basic practice of medicine is required. For this reason I think it is necessary to have a continuing evaluation of our program. It is necessary, for example, to be able to take the nettle in both hands and say: 'Well, perhaps the program ought to be reversed. Perhaps we ought to be sending teachers into these countries from which we now draw Colombo Plan students. Instead of bringing students to Australia we should be sending professors and teachers to their countries to train them in their local environment so that they can then go out into the field without any dislocation caused by oversophistication in training'. 
I will sketch one or two of the areas in which Australia can assist in overseas aid and these I think are basic areas. First is the field of food production. We are faced at the present time with wide scale famine in Africa. 
These famines recur from time to time in that part of the world. Last year we faced a disaster of catastrophic proportions in India where famine and flooding caused widespread cholera and other diseases. These are disasters which occur from time to time. Undoubtedly Australia will always come to the aid of countries which are in this situation with emergency relief aid. But as well as providing emergency relief aid I think we ought to be looking for long term solutions. We ought, for example, to be looking to ascertain whether we can assist in building dams and irrigation works which would increase the cultivatable land in Africa. This would increase food production in some of the areas which are subject to the failure of crops. We ought to consider promotion of diversification and rotation of crops that may be grown in these areas to assist in times of need. 
In the area of public health, once again a very basic area, we ought perhaps to be helping to bring elementary systems of sanitation into some of the very large cities of Asia where sewers empty straight into the gutter where the untreated effluent flows into the rivers that provide the water supply for the population of some very large cities. Perhaps we ought to be assisting in specific projects of public health in those areas and also in the general field of elementary education. I do not believe that we ought to be concerned either with secondary or with tertiary education but it is important, I believe, that we make an onslaught on the growing problem of illiteracy. Even though the western countries have had systems of universal education, for quite a number of years the problem of illiteracy in the world taken as a whole has not improved very markedly. This is something which I think we have to attack very strongly because our present Western style of living which is becoming increasingly desired by other parts of the world depends very much on a .literate people. If we have an elementary system of education which gives the people the basis of reading and writing we can build on it in future years. 
These are basic areas in which Australia ought to concern itself. We are able, I believe, to provide assistance in the training of skilled workers, artisans and tradesmen who are desperately needed in their home countries. Once again I suggest that the appropriate way that we can do that is not by bringing trade apprentices and others to Australia but by sending teachers to teach more people in their home countries than our money would provide for if we brought them here. Australia can also assist in capital investment either in partnership with local capital or by contributing to a multi-national type of agency such as the World Bank or the Asian Development Bank. In the days when home ownership of economic assets has become a problem right around the world I suggest that it is probably more desirable that capital investment is channelled through a multi-national agency such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank where the capital can be marshalled and made available to the developing countries for specific projects and when the capital is paid back the home country ends up owning the industry. 
Australia can also assist in providing managerial skills for industries in their early stages. We have been a beneficiary of this type of aid in the past. British and American companies have sent to Australia people skilled on the managerial side of the business and over a long period of time Australians have been educated and trained to take over managerial duties. We have in Australia at the present time, I feel, a reservoir of managerial skills which we can make available to developing countries in our immediate region. We can also assist in providing markets both for primary and raw materials of countries in our region and also later for manufactured goods when they move into the secondary industry field. We are, after all, a trading country. We depend on trade. We produce a remarkable amount of food and probably we could increase our food production in almost unlimited quantities if we could find the markets. I believe there are markets for food to our immediate north. The problem always has been whether they can afford to pay the prices for our food and whether the people are trained in their dietary habits to want it. I believe that with the increasing industrialisation of the countries to our north an increasingly wider market for agricultural products from Australia will open up but we must be ready to have a 2-way trading arrangement. No country wants to enter into a trading partnership and always be on the wrong end, with a deficit. So we must approach our trading relations with other countries in a fair and broadminded way not only in our own interests but in the interests of the region as well. 
I express some disappointment that the Prime Minister was not more detailed about the type of aid which this agency is going to channel. I hope that in view of the request for military aid that appeared in the newspapers as coming from President Nyerere during his visit to Australia, the Government will give an unequivocal assurance to the House that this agency will not be used as a vehicle for providing military aid of any description to any overseas country. I think the decision to give military aid to other countries is one which ought to be debated separately by the Parliament and not simply left to an agency such as this to make. I hope that this agency will do nothing but distribute civil aid on the basis of the principles and program laid down by the Prime Minister in his speech introducing this Bill. 
I also take issue with the Government on the desirability of creating this agency as a statutory body. I know that the Government is wedded to the idea of creating statutory bodies. Apparently it feels that this is the best method of dealing with quite a number of problems. On the other hand, I believe that this dilutes the responsibility of the Minister to the Parliament and in that respect I think that statutory bodies are undesirable. This is a typical example of where a statutory body has been chosen and in my view has been incorrectly chosen. Foreign aid must always be a subject of debate in this House. I think it is proper that the body ought to be directly responsible to a Minister who is himself directly responsible to the House. He should riot be shielded from his responsibility by interposing a statutory body between him and the Parliament. 
Such a system also leads to a one-line appropriation of money once a year on the basis of past performance. It is hardly a good enough opportunity for Parliament to scrutinise what the Agency  is  doing if this is done on a once-a-year basis during the Budget debates. I think that this Agency could be quite adequately run as an advisory agency to the Minister. I agree, however, with the Government's proposal to have an Advisory Board. I think it is good that the Government is thinking of bringing in other groups in the community which are interested in aid. Church groups, trade unions and others in the community who have involved themselves in voluntary aid programs ought to be consulted in devising a program for the Australian Government. 
I hope that the Government, before this debate is finished, will give a clear definition of the aims which it has in this regard. I appreciate that it is difficult in setting up the Agency at this time to have any really detailed specific proposals of what aid programs it will carry out. But I think that the Prime Minister could have been somewhat more expansive than he was in his second reading speech. I should like an assurance with regard to military aid and also about the channelling of money into multinational funds, which latter has led to discontent in many parts of the world. It is, I believe, one of the prime causes of discontent in the United States at present because the United Nations and other multinational bodies have unfortunately injected a note of political bias into the way in which their programs are developed. If this is allowed to intrude too much, naturally the countries which are being called upon to contribute feel that they are not having an adequate say in how the money is being spent. If they feel that the money is being spent by the international agency contrary to their own political interests and their own national interests, they will react by dropping their payments to those bodies. So I think we ought to have some definition from the Government as to what multinational, programs are to be supported and what areas of bilateral aid are hoped to be explored. 
 I will sit down in time to enable the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to reply to the remarks of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  but I cannot let what the honourable member for Kingston.  (Dr Gun)  said go unchallenged. What he has not told the House is that the Bill that he has lauded is in fact a Bill which seeks to subvert a constitutional provision that obliges the Commonwealth, if it acquires property compulsorily, to pay a just price. The Bill that he spoke of virtually sought to set a different standard for the evaluation of the amount to be paid in compensation. It amounted to little more than confiscation without compensation. 
The facts of the matter are that the Commonwealth is constitutionally obliged to pay a just price. No one can cavil if a just price is paid. If property is required for governmental purposes and it is acquired compulsorily we on this side of the House say that a just price must be paid for it. The Government, on the other hand, wants to erect its own concepts of what prices are to be paid. The Opposition in the Senate objected to the Lands Acquisition (Australian Capital Territory) Bill simply on the basis that a just price should be paid. It is not a question of whether the Government thinks that its valuation is a proper one. It is not a question of whether the owners have made a claim which they think is the value of the property. There are procedures under the law dealing with the acquisition of property which lay down the means whereby the price can be determined by an independent tribunal, that is, by a court and there ought to be no objection by the Government, if it is going to be a fair and honest broker in this matter, if the case goes to court and the court then determines what a just and fair price ought to be for the property. Surely the honourable member for Kingston cannot argue that the Government ought to be allowed to acquire people's property compulsorily and not pay a just price for it. 
I did want to mention one or two other matters but, in view of the fact that the Leader of the House has indicated that he wants to reply to the remarks of the honourable member for Maranoa, I will leave them for another occasion. 
I direct my remarks this evening in like vein to that of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I refer to the remarkable handouts which the Labor Cabinet announced in this morning's newspapers. I suppose that following the usual performance we Will have to wait with baited breath until after the Caucus meeting tomorrow to find out whether the Cabinet announcements are to be Government policy. Judging from the items which J have read in the newspapers, I would imagine that Caucus will be only too happy to agree to the Cabinet's decision. The money was splashed out yesterday in Canberra with gay abandon. The Government would be more sincere if before the election on 18 May it paid the amounts of money that it has promised. It is very nice to be able to promise people lots of money. In fact this Government is a past master at promising people lots of money. When it comes time to deliver the money, of course, it is a different story. It is interesting to note that in yesterday's bonanza the airport in Brisbane was allocated another $3.7m. The report in the 'Courier-Mail' of today's date, from which I am reading, states that the airport is in the electorate of Lilley, which was won narrowly by  Mr F.  Doyle, Labor, in the 1972 elections. 
By 35 votes. I know more than 35 people in Lilley who have changed their minds since 1972. I can well understand the nervousness of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  with the impending double dissolution. He is also nervous because 1 believe most of his how-to-vote signs already have been papered over the signs of the 3-man Senate team from Queensland. I have no doubt he spent a deal of his time over the last couple of week-ends nailing signs on telegraph poles. Unfortunately now he will find that all his work has been to no avail because the signs will have to come down. To try to retrieve his own position in Lilley he will have to paper up a few more signs showing an enlarged Senate ticket. Unfortunately he has gone to much time and trouble to absolutely no avail. I feel sorry that his Easter week-end will be interrupted by his having to paper up new signs. However his performance on the Brisbane Airport issue is such that one might well say that the best he could do would be to put up a few signs, because he certainly has not created much of a record when it comes to the Brisbane Airport. The Brisbane Airport is a matter which was raised last year by the honourable member for Griffith, and it was not a subject to which the honourable member for Lilley had addressed himself until it was raised by my colleague, the honourable member for Griffith. 
It is interesting that when the Coombs Task Force reviewed the commitment of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government to upgrade the Brisbane Airport it suggested in its report, which was tabled with the Budget Papers to which the honourable member for Griffith referred, that the program to upgrade the airport ought to be postponed. That in fact was the Government's decision. A curious announcement was made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  that the $6.5m was to be made available for the acquisition of land and also additional land in the vicinity of Caboolture was to be secured for the second airport in Brisbane. 
We certainly have not. I asked the Minister a question on notice in relation to the new proposal for Caboolture because of an interest that I have in that area and the interest that my constituents have because they would possibly be in the flight path of any new airport situated in the Caboolture area. Apart from that announcement nothing more was heard about the Caboolture airport. No money was allocated for it in the Budget. The Minister has said not a word of it since that time despite the fact that I have asked him questions about it. He was extremely vague. No land had been picked and no money had been allocated. Why on earth the Minister mentioned that the airport was to be at Caboolture defies imagination. 
My friend from McPherson would like one at Beenleigh. That might be a reasonable alternative. The Minister for Transport could well investigate that proposal instead of trying to prop, up a hopeless case for an airport in the electorate of Lilley. Lilley is an irretrievably lost position as far as the Labor Government is concerned. 
I did a lot better than the honourable member for Lilley. I can assure the honourable member for Chifley that after the elections on 18 May I shall be back here with an increased majority. I am quite confident that I will not be seeing the honourable member for Lilley coming down on the plane on a Monday or Tuesday morning. The duplicity of the Government in this area is incredible. After it was said that the building of the second Brisbane airport was to be postponed, the matter was agitated here in Parliament by the honourable member for Griffith. An altercation occurred between the Minister for Transport and  Mr Egerton  of the Board of Qantas.  Mr Egerton  said that if the Minister was not going to upgrade the international terminal in Brisbane Qantas would have to build a new terminal because the present facilities are a disgrace. 
This argument seesawed backwards and forwards until at some stage the Minister announced that new international facilities would be built in Brisbane at a cost of $300,000. Nobody asked: 'Where is the money corning from?' It was not allocated in the Budget. It is just a figure which is plucked out of the air. The figure of $3.7m which was plucked out of the air by Cabinet yesterday is even more fantastic. According to the Coombs report there are not even preliminary estimates of the cost of this project. The Coombs report says that it will be necessary, once the approval in principle is given, for a preliminary cost estimate to be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. After that has been done the final drawings and costs will be investigated by the Committee. 
Out of the blue yesterday, because the Government is,.; threatened with a situation where the honourable member for Lilley is in difficulty, the Government plucked out $3.7m for a terminal which is gloriously described as being temporary. I suggest that $3.7m is a considerable amount of money to spend on a temporary airport. 
The Coombs report has indicated the timetable which the previous Government laid down for the development of the airport. The previous Government was committed to a continuing program to spend somewhat more than $200m on the Brisbane airport. The Labor Government has no commitment at all except to pluck a few million dollars out of the hat every time an election is around the corner. The Labor Government is doing this not only in Brisbane but also is doing it elsewhere. Money has been allocated in the marginal seat of Denison to help out. The Government will give a bit of help to the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen),  who is in a bit of trouble as a result of the Labor Government's activities in in the last 16 months. So it is proposing to give a 'without strings attached' grant as it is referred to in the newspapers, for further irrigation works in the Bundaberg district. That is a nice boost for the honourable member as well. There is also a commitment on nitrogenous fertiliser, which it is thought will help out in the electorate of Dawson and perhaps also in Leichhardt. These are all commitments- 
One does not have to buy the voters in Petrie. They know their minds. I suggest that this last ditch stand of trying to buy votes will not succeed. The Government ought to have more sense really, because it has a few tacticians on its side and I thought that they would have learnt a lesson at the by-election in Parramatta. They tried very hard to bribe the electors of Parramatta to swing across to the Labor Party. That turned out to be a great flop because the people would not take it. I suggest that the people of Queensland and other places in Australia will not be bought off with promises of massive expenditures of money. They know that this Government is so tottery and rotten- 
 I want to make one or two observations about this motion. The reasons for the urgency in getting on with the project which were given by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  are matters which I would agree with entirely. However, it is strange that these considerations did not prompt the Minister or his colleague, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  into doing something about the project in the last Budget. When the Bud get was introduced I recall that the Coombs Report was tabled with it, in which there was a clear recommendation which was adopted by the Government at that time, that the only money to be made available for the Brisbane airport was $6.5m for acquisition of land. 
The report also went on to say that plans were in hand by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government to resite the runways. That is the important and expensive part of the project. The international terminal is window dressing. After all, the number of international flights which go in and out of Brisbane is relatively small when compared with the large number of internal flights in and out of the same airport. It would have been much better usage of money to spend it on upgrading the technical aspects of the airport such as the resiting of the runways further towards Moreton Bay which would not only increase the capacity of the airport to handle air traffic but also would alleviate the problem which the report mentions of noise nuisance to residential areas and a restriction on the height of buildings in the centre of Brisbane, which of course is under the flight path of aircraft using the present airport. 
These are much more important matters than simply some prestige building for international visitors. While I do not suggest that this project ought not to be gone on with, I suggest that it is remarkable that last August the Government found that this project was not very urgent at all. All of a sudden when we were faced with a double dissolution and a general election for this House and the Senate last Monday we heard the first announcement of money to be spent on Brisbane airport. Where, may I ask, is the money to come from? Out of which appropriation vote in the Budget last year is this additional money to come? Also on last Monday we had the announcement that the money was to be spent. Today we have a motion that the Public Works Committee be bypassed so that the work can be started and capital can be made out of it by the Government in order to support the shaky chances of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  at the next election. The motives of the Government in proposing this motion are what I challenge, not the fact that the money ought to be spent on the international air terminal. 
It is also interesting to note that pressure was being brought to bear on the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  following his appointment to the board of Qantas Airways Ltd of  Mr Egerton.  I think it was in January that  Mr Egerton  made the announcement that if the Minister for Transport did not make money available to upgrade the facilities in the Brisbane international air terminal, he would make sure that Qantas built the terminal. Apparently then there was an interchange of views betwen  Mr Egerton  and the Minister for Transport. It is no wonder that the building is now going to be built because that particular gentleman has had plenty of experience in industrial blackmail. Be that as it may, the fact of the matter is that this matter was raised repeatedly by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  For weeks he was ignored by the Minister for Transport on this subject. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  made his speeches in the House only after the matter had been raised by the honourable member for Griffith. Normally in the adjournment debates last year they followed in tandem. The honourable member for Griffith would raise the subject, and make a speech on it and he would be followed by the little echo from Lilley dragging along behind. I think it is worth while reminding the House of the efforts that the honourable member for Griffith has made in promoting the Brisbane Airport. It is also worth while reminding the House that the Government which now sees great urgency in introducing this particular motion to get the work on the international air terminal started, saw no urgency when the Budget Papers were being drawn up. This is just another example of the way in which this Government has channelled funds into the bigger States and the bigger areas of Sydney and Melbourne to the grave disadvantage of smaller places like Brisbane. It is only now when the Government is in electoral trouble that the people of Brisbane are being considered. While. I would not oppose the expenditure of money on the Brisbane Airport, I do oppose the way the Government has gone about it. I am sure that the people in the electorate of Lilley and in other electorates in Brisbane will not be deceived or gulled by the action of this Government in its panic state. 
