I preface my question  which is addressed to the Minister for Social Services, by stating that some Maltese citizens have served, and are serving, in the armed forces of Australia and that we have a very buoyant trade balance with Malta. I ask: Has a decision been made in reply to the request for a social services reciprocal agreement with Malta? If not, when will the House be informed of the Government's decision? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has the Government accepted the reported offer by the United States to lend Australia 24 Phantom F4E aircraft until its F111 aircraft are proven structurally sound? If so, is this an exercise to support the views expressed on a number of occasions by members of the Australian Labor Party? If Australia has accepted the offer, will the right honourable gentleman inform the House what cost this will entail additional to the original order? 
I ask the Minister for Immigration whether his attention has been drawn to a recent article in a South Australian newspaper quoting  Mr Giordano,  publisher of a monthly bulletin, as saying that more should be done in the field of housing for migrants. Will the Minister comment on this statement? Will he comment also on the progress of the new flat programme for migrants and indicate when this programme will be applied to South Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Air. 1 preface the question by stating that I understand following the late sitting last Friday night the Minister for Health returned to South Australia in a VIP aircraft in which he invited his Liberal colleagues, the honourable members for Boothby, Wakefield and Angas to accompany him. Will the Minister consider the suggestion that when VIP aircraft are used under similar circumstances in future, Ministers extend their invitations to include honourable members on this side of the House? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior. Members of this Parliament who represent the federal electorates of Leichhardt, Kalgoorlie, Northern Territory and others of a like nature have considerable difficulty in providing a personal service to their constituents because of the vast and isolated conformation of the districts they represent. Will the Minister give consideration to the making available of charter aircraft to these members of Parliament to enable the same personal contact to be had as other honourable members have with their electorates? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr Speaker.  Have you,  Sir, recently  inspected the corridors of this Parliament and noticed the accumulation of furniture and junk which is reminiscent of the popular Steptoe and Son business? Will you,  Mr Speaker,  together with the  President  of the Senate, take the necessary action ro dispose of the unwanted articles at the earliest opportunity particularly in view of the Government's austerity campaign? 
I rise to support the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  All the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  did was to reiterate the terms of the speech delivered by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  For instance, he repeated the expression that left wing Socialists live on the misery that exists in the community. I honestly do not think that the honourable member for Hume really understands what a left wing Socialist is. I do not think he understands what a conservative Liberal is. I think he knows how to grow a bit of wheat and a bit of wool but that is where his political nous begins and ends. 
I was amazed that the honourable member for Bennelong expressed regret at not having sufficient time to outline the increases in pensions and the many fringe benefits given by this Government. I took particular note of the time and I noted that he spent 8 minutes castigating the Opposition and accusing the Opposition of using people who are in an unfortunate position for political purposes and to stir up class distinction. He also asked this amazing question: 'Why does not the Leader of the Opposition ever go in quietly and have a discussion with the Prime Minister on an important matter such as this?' What tommyrot! What humbug! The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who goes into the room where all the Cabinet Ministers are meeting for the purpose of putting forward a case for increases to which the pensioners of this country are entitled, is not listened to. Yet we have to put up with these statements. 
I have been in this Parliament since 1963. For about half of that time the present Minister for Social Services, who is now sitting at the table, was a backbencher. I can recall him sitting up the back and making many speeches. Most of them were speeches red-baiting the Opposition, but quite a number of them were speeches on behalf of the pensioners. He became known as the champion of the pensioners' cause. But the fact is that this Government has got the pensioners into a worse mess than they have ever been in before in their lives. The position will continue that way because this Government is an ad hoc government. It waits until things occur, and then it starts to take the necessary action to overcome the problem, instead of doing some planning with the object of overcoming the problem. 
I severely censure the Government for creating the present unsatisfactory position in the economy, for not keeping the Parliament informed of the trend of the situation and for not introducing a supplementary Budget to assist the needy, the sick and the aged. There is an urgent need for the immediate introduction of legislation to provide for increases in the rates of social service payments. It is the basic pension that is inadequate. We know that pensions were increased by 3 per cent during a period when there was a 5 per cent rate of inflation. We know that a high rate of inflation is continuing and that it has been produced in part by the action of the Government. 
Last year's Budget, with its increases in telephone, telegram, money order and other postal charges, has imposed an increasing burden on everyone in the community but particularly people on fixed incomes and those in receipt of social service benefits. The Government also increased the excise on a range of commodities. That inevitably affected the cost of goods and services throughout the community. In addition, by its direction to the 
Reserve Bank of Australia, and. through it to other banks, the Government pushed up interest rates to a record high level and it has maintained them at that level. What could one have but inflation? 
In this continuing spiral of prices, pensioners and other people on fixed incomes are compelled to bear the brunt, without any recognition by the Federal LiberalCountry Party Government. The 50c increase in pension rates last October was an insult to the less fortunate members of our society. It would not even buy a pound of butter. Surely pensioners are entitled to have at least some semblance of being able to exist in some sort of comfort in Australia today. But they are not able to do this. How can anyone live on the age pension today? The single rate is $15.50 a week and the married rate is $13.75 a week. That is their weekly income if they are unable to earn a little extra or have no other assets or income. 
The question of the unemployment and sickness benefit also needs to be investigated thoroughly. In March 1962. the rate was $8.25 for a single person, and $14.25 for a married man, including a wife's allowance of $6, and the permissible income was $4. Today the rate is $10, with a wife's allowance of $7 and a permissible income of $6. That is not much of an increase considering the high cost of living in this country. Let me take this opportunity, while I am mentioning the unemployment and sickness benefit, to refer to the way in which the Government administers the Department of .Social Services and the inhuman way in which the Department is used against some people. It was because of this pittance that I recently approached the Department of Social Services on behalf of a constituent who, in filling in his form for unemployment benefit, made a false declaration concerning his wife's earnings. 
The person concerned is of Italian descent and has not worked for the past 2 years because of a physical injury to his arm. During this period he has tried unsuccessfully to obtain employment. Employers will not employ him because of his disability. In filling in the form he placed the word 'yes' on the form and then erased it and substituted the word 'no' in answer to a question as to whether his wife had earnings. Acting upon that - I am informed by the people concerned that the only reason why they acted was that they noticed the erasure on the form - the Department investigated the case and found that the wife had casual employment for which she received $33. In an interview with the Department, the person concerned claimed that the fact that it was Christmas, that he had no money and that the family was poverty stricken caused him to make this false declaration. The Department cancelled his social service benefit and referred his action to the Crown Prosecutor. 1 understand that action has been taken to prosecute him. 
My representations to the Department were for a lenient view to be taken because of the extenuating circumstances involved in this case. I was informed by the Department that the person could plead his case in court and the magistrate would take extenuating circumstances into account. Surely the Department of Social Services, which has had the man's history for the past 2 years, is in a better position to determine the reasons that forced him to commit this offence. This man and his family are decent citizens in the community. They had an unblemished record for many years prior to this offence. Because the Government keeps social service recipients at a starvation level, people are forced to commit unlawful acts. The real culprit in this case is the Government itself. 
The unemployment benefit does not cover a working man's bills for rent, electricity and travelling expenses in looking for a job, let alone for food. I can recall asking the present Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  when he held the portfolio of Labour and National Service, for consideration to be given to making travel vouchers available through the departmental officials to people who, by direction, are sent to obtain jobs. The answer I received was: Yes, we will make travel vouchers available, but the people concerned will have to reimburse the Government when they find work'. That is the way in which this Government takes a so-called humane look at the people about whom we are talking today. 
There is no planning as to which way the economy will go. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has laid the blame ou the 
Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and its decision to increase the total wage by 6 per cent. But that increase was granted only to compensate workers for the already increased cost of living. Now workers are still trying to make up the leeway. In view of the announcement of increases or proposed increases in health fund contributions, hospital charges, doctors' fees, motor car prices and State and Federal taxes, I ask the Government: Where are we heading? We are a fortunate country. We have the resources to look after our aged citizens, our sick, our handicapped and our less fortunate people as benefits a civilised society; but we are not doing it. There is abroad in the community a lack of confidence in this Government and a feeling that we are scraping along. The people themselves are no longer able to see ahead and to plan for their future security- 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. On 24th February this year 30 per cent of the workshop personnel of Hawker Siddeley Electronics Ltd at Salisbury were made redundant. The reason given by the Government officials for this action was the delay in placing an order for anti-submarine devices at a cost of $lm which the Minister for Supply had announced publicly would be placed with this firm. Will the Minister give urgent attention to the placement of this order as  the firm, Hawker Siddeley, announced last Friday that a further IS to 25 personnel would be put off? 
My good old sporting friend, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin),  is a dyed in the wool conservative of the old brigade. I took particular notice of his comment on the national superannuation scheme. He said that the Government was having a look at the matter. I draw his attention to the election promises of his Party's leader,  Sir Robert  Menzies, who, in 1949, promised the abolition of the means test. That was 22 years ago, and his Government has been in office all those years and still retains the means test. I would like to see a national superannuation scheme, and so would the people of Australia. But I am afraid that under the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government that is out of the question. 1 support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Once again we have witnessed a budget introduced by the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government similar to previous budgets. In the first place, 1 month before Budget night we had the Australian Press conjecturing on the hard line which the Government would present in its Budget and predicting that anti-inflationary measures would be incorporated in the Budget to ensure the stability of the economy. Then the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  submitted his Budget. It contained proposals for increased personal taxation, petrol and tobacco rises, postal slugs, increased television licences and company taxation - all geared to hit the great mass of the Australian people, as all these increases will be directly or indirectly passed on to the Australian consumer. 
Postal charges, which were increased in the previous Budget, have received savage comment from the Associated Chambers of Commerce which have called for an overhaul of the Postmaster-General's Department. This call has received wide endorsement beyond business circles. Private users also are fed up with dwindling postal services and steeply rising charges. The new budget levies are shocking. Local telephone calls will increase from 4c to 4 3/4 c Postal charges for letters and postcards under loz will rise from 6c to 7c. 
Telephone rentals will rise from $47 to $55. Telephone connection fees for new services will rise from $40 to $50. Particular person fees and fixed time fees for calls over 30 miles will go up from 5c to 10c, exactly a 100 per cent increase. 
In the previous Budget of 1970-71 the Postmaster-General's Department budgeted for a $30m profit which, in reality, was revealed as an overall loss of $2m on that year's trading. The Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  puts the blame for this situation mainly on postal workers because of wage rises. But regardless of the previous year's result, he has again budgeted for the 1971-72 year for an estimated profit of $36m. Surely this action in itself is inflationary, and the Government loudly proclaims that it is attempting to combat inflation. On one hand, the Government appeals to the private sector to contain costs and, on the other, it aggravates charges in the public sector which will accelerate the situation and which are in turn passed on to the consumer. 
The McMahon Budget like the Gorton Budgets bears brutally and bluntly on the great mass of the Australian people, particularly the middle and lower income groups. I took particular notice of an article in the Melbourne 'Observer' by the publisher Maxwell Newton headed 'Budget Hits at Hawke'. It reads as follows: 
There is no doubt that the McMahon Government is pushing towards a major confrontation with the Communist and Socialist left unions. The first step in this programme occurred in the Budget when a policy of anti-inflationary pressure was introduced. 
The tough Budget of Billy, Snedden, itself a courageous and wise document, was clearly intended to 'pull on' Bob Hawke and his Communist mates in the union movement. The Budget was designed to soak up excess spending power and free money in the system, so that employers would simply not be able to pay higher wages. 
In the process, it would become clear to union members that any increase in wages would tend to be accompanied by a rise in unemployment. 
Let us analyse that statement and put the record straight. I have already shown that the Snedden Budget does not contain measures to curb anti-inflationary pressures but provides the exact opposite. Bob Hawke, as President of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, heads an interstate executive consisting of 17 persons, only one of whom is a recognised member of the Australian Communist Party. There are 170 trade union organisations affiliated with the ACTU. Approximately 10 only of these organisations would have a full time secretary or president who would be a professed Communist. 
The slurs and innuendos of the antiHawke brigade will do nothing to deter this gentleman from his dedicated service and his course to ensure the maximum effort on behalf of the 4 million workers whose conditions and wages are constantly being eroded by the actions of the LiberalCountry Party coalition Government. Maxwell Newton's article continues: 
So Bob Hawke was quite right in suggesting as he did that the Budget would lead to more unemployment. 
What Bob may not have wanted to say was that unemployment would occur because he and his Communist mates had achieved wages increases far and away beyond what could be sustained by the productive system of the Australian economy,. 
In pulling on Bob Hawke and the Communist and Socialist Left unions, Billy McMahon and Bill Snedden showed more courage than has been evident from the Federal Government since that Government virtually abandoned the use of penal clauses a couple of years ago. 
Billy Snedden underlined the whole theme of the Budget when he said in his Budget speech: In general, as we see the problem, there has been and still is a powerful upthrust of costs, stemming largely, though not wholly, from large wage claims relentlessly pursued.' 
For the past 8 years on each occasion that a major basic wage or margins case has been before the Arbitration Commission, this Government has briefed counsel to appear with the express purpose of opposing the trade unions' claim on the grounds that the Australian economy could not bear the increase. On all occasions, the Commission has brought down its decision that wage increases could be sustained by the productive system of the Austraiian economy. In regard to my latter statement let me repeat what  Mr Maxwell  Newton said: 
Billy Snedden underlined the whole theme of the Budget when he said in his Budget speech: In general, as we sec the problem, there has been and still is a powerful upthrust of costs, stemming largely, though not wholly, from large wage claims relentlessly pursued. 
If Maxwell Newton's views on Australia's future are genuine one would have expected that instead of lauding the courage of the Billys he would have criticised the Government for not seeking power to enable the Commonwealth to introduce price control legislation to stop giant monopoly corporations such as the Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd from increasing the price of as essential a commodity as steel without reference to any tribunal irrespective of the damage of such action to the Australian economy with resultant hardship to the Austraiian people. 
Tonight I intend to refer to 2 matters. One concerns education and the other involves one of my constituents. On 16th June of this year I had the pleasure of being present at an education rally called by the South Australian Institute of Teachers and the Parents and Friends Association to listen to and receive reports on the needs of schools in South Australia. The Institute had invited the then Minister for Education and Science,  Mr Fairbairn,  and the State Minister of Education,  Mr Hugh  Hudson, to give a report on the current education position. More and more we are being asked to see that the young people of rais nation receive a fair education to fit them for their vocations in life, but more and more we are hearing that the State education departments are not able to meet this demand because of the shortage of money. 1 ask the present Government: Is sufficient being done to assist the nation generally in the field of education? The students of today are the citizens of tomorrow. This nation is crying put for guidance and for better educated young people to work the new machines and to assist in the technological changes now taking place. Our young people will need to know more about trade with our Asian neighbours. They will need to learn new skills. They will be required to introduce new industries to Australia. The only place where they will learn is at school. But what do we find? There is overcrowding in classrooms, inadequate buildings and ventilation, high ratios of students to teachers and lack of language classes in English to assist our migrant citizens. Teachers are frustrated in trying to cope with the present teaching situation let alone coping with sickness, staff shortages, increases in the student population and few remedial classes for backward children and slow learning children. 1 could go on for ever outlining the problems confronting schools and teachers today. In my electorate are the following schools: Elizabeth Field Primary School, Elizabeth South Downs Primary School, Elizabeth West Infant School, Pooraka Primary School. Parafield Gardens East Primary School, Parafield Gardens Primary School, Salisbury North Primary School, Salisbury Primary School, Salisbury Northwest Primary School, Brahma Lodge Primary School, Northfield Primary School, Ingle Farm East Primary School, Ingle Farm Central Primary School, Para Vista School, Gilles Plains Infant School, Gepps Cross Girls Technical High School, Enfield High School, Enfield Primary School, Northfield High School and Hampstead Primary School. All these schools in my district are vitally interested in the chaotic education position. They have all stated that classes are too big and that extra staff is needed urgently. On many occasions no replacements are available for teachers who are sick and there is no opportunity for teachers to do in-service training. Teacher aids are essential in any modern school but these are too few at the moment. Teacher aids are of great assistance to the teaching staff in undertaking the clerical work, getting classrooms in order, setting out books, collecting money for lunches and functions and in a variety of ways. 
Most schools have no caretakers, hence vandalism is rampant. There is no protection for government property. Teachers and senior students are required to take care of the grounds and playing areas. Ground staff could be engaged to do this. The work could be performed if workmen were allocated two or three schools in a particular area. Many of the schools in my electorate have what are termed temporary buildings which have taken on an air of permanence. Teaching in some of these pre-fabricated buildings is an endurance test, especially on hot summer days. No provision is made for large shelter areas - halls where children can assemble to eat their meals on winter days. There are no staff rooms for teachers where they can relax and prepare papers. In fact one school has no sick room available if a male member of the staff or a student takes ill. This is a situation which would not be tolerated in industry. More libraries, books and teaching aids are needed urgently to enable us to keep abreast of movements in education. Few schools have facilities for music and drama to help students in their cultural development. South Australia has not been able to keep abreast of the population increase following the war years and the influx of migrants into the community. To enable the States to increase or even maintain our present standard of living and not become a backward nation, I implore the Commonwealth Government to give this question serious thought and to increase Commonwealth assistance to the States for the education of young Australians. 
I wish to bring to the attention of the House the plight of one of my constituents in his battle with the Taxation Office over his taxation assessment. In his young days this gentleman served a 5-year apprenticeship as an electrician. He went on to study for his electrical engineering diploma at technical college. Subsequently he was accepted as a trainee pilot in the Royal Australian Air Force. He had one solo flight. My constituent then contracted poliomyelitis and was in hospital for 3 months. As he was not fit enough to continue with his pilot training he was transferred to a navigation course. He came third in his class. He was offered a position with Qantas Airways as a navigator on overseas flights when his term in the Air Force was completed. At this time he was classed as a navigation officer with the base squadron in Darwin. He was given a short service commission and was informed that shortly he would be transferred to a permanent commission. Three months prior to his discharge from the Service - due in February 1960  -  he was severely injured in a plane accident whilst on duty at the Darwin Air Force base. This was on 8th November 1959. He was in hospital for 1 1 months and the severity of his mental and physical injuries led to the breakdown of his marriage and a subsequent divorce. His wife was granted the custody of their 2 young daughters. 
My constituent was suffering severely from neurosis and the doctors told him that they could not do anything more for him. He was told that only he could do more for himself. He has attempted to undertake this therapy by doing welfare work in the service of others. He has used his own money, received from compensation payments, to help develop a workshop for the physically handicapped at Mount Gambier. He spent 6 weeks with the Service to Youth Council in Adelaide. He assisted with the establishment of a youth club at Salisbury. He was the  President  and  Chairman  of Welfare of all branches of 'Shiralee' the association for divorced, separated and deserted men and women. He was also a contact and welfare offiicer of the Good Neighbour Council of South Australia. He has also assisted with other types of welfare services in the community. In 1970 he attempted a course at the South Australian Institute of Technology, but because of his physical disabilities he was not able to continue with it. 
The position is that this gentleman is not allowed to claim, for taxation purposes, any of the money he has spent on doing welfare work for others in the community. The absurd feature is that if he had given a donation to some recognised charity he would have been granted a taxation concession. He has not become a burden on the community. By engaging in these activities he has kept himself occupied. By using his own money in these pursuits he did not put anything aside for his accrued taxation. He believes that his compensation payments should not have been taxed. He was not earning income and those payments were granted to him to assist him to live with his infirmities. For the information of honourable members I point out that my constituent, as a result of the accident caused by the negligence of another officer, suffered a fractured skull with brain damage, a fracture of the scaphoid bone, an ulna styloid of the right wrist, complete loss of smell, almost complete loss of taste, injuries to his eyes, has little feeling at ali in his right side, has an injured right leg and ankle and has tremors in his right arm and right leg. He has suffered a complete change of personality. 
I have referred this case to the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  seeking his intervention for a reduction of the $700 which the Commonwealth Taxation Branch claims my constituent owes. I have placed before the Minister for Air a proposal that this sum be deducted in instalments from his compensation payments which I think is little to ask in view of this man's mental health. I have recently received a reply from the Minister. He has indicated that if the necessary statutory authority is forwarded to him consideration will be given to making deductions from the man's compensation payments. If my constituent had not been involved in this accident and stayed in the civil air crew he would have earned something like $300,000. With his total salary and investments he could possibly have earned well over $800,000. If he had gained employment with Qantas he also would have benefited financially and would have been able to make plans for the future. By trying to adjust to his new life and learning to live with his handicaps he has used his own experience in the service of others and has not become a burden on the community. Surely his fellow citizens can assist him a little as well. That is all that I and he ask. This man is only 40 years of age, yet since 19S9 he has lived through a lifetime of pain and suffering. The breakup of his home caused him much mental anguish. This action by the Government is the final straw. I ask the House: Can some means be found to assist my constituent in a humane way? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned electors of the State of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24 year old graduate in Building Technology is in Cadell Prison, in South Australia for failure to comply with the National Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly, touched by its provisions. 
That his failure to comply with the Act was done as a matter of conscience, and that his imprisonment must therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will repeal the National Service Act, and cause Charles Martin, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for Defence: What is the present position of the Australian order for the FI 1 1 aircraft? Does the Minister intend to make a statement to the House on this question this year, next year, or when? Further, will we pay for the aircraft with Australian or American dollars? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. I draw attention to his statement circulated on Monday, 7th December 1970, headed Awards for Vietnam Service'. Listed as recepients of awards are one brigadier, one lieutenant-colonel, 12 majors, 5 captains, 6 lieutenants, 27 non-commissioned officers and 5 privates. In view of the latest casualty list which contains practically only the names of privates engaged in active confrontation with the enemy, will he agree that the awards show a distinct imbalance between officers and ordinary servicemen? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. 1 preface it by slating that many members of the work force are eligible for unemployment benefits but a considerable number are not aware of the requirements of the operative legislation, which states that unemployment benefits are payable from the seventh day after the day on which the claimant became unemployed or the seventh day after the day on which the claim was lodged, whichever is the later. Will the Minister give consideration to placing periodical advertisements in the daily newspapers of the requirements of the Act and, secondly, amending the Act by deleting the last section? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister and is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Brisbane. To what extent has the Australian Government allocated its grant of aid to the Pakistan refugees? Further, in view of the present hostilities between India and Pakistani, what are the Government's plans for the supervision of present and future aid to these unfortunate people? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs, and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Offices until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the recent announcement that the National Heart Foundation of Australia might have to stop work because of a lack of funds? Is it a fact, as reported, that since the inception of the National Heart Foundation 11 years ago the Federal Government has given to date a total of $70,000 to the Foundation? Will the Prime Minister give urgent consideration to the granting of greater financial assistance to ensure that this important institution continues with its work? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activtiies under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Defence refers to the political decision by the Government in 1963 to purchase the Fill aircraft. I ask the Minister: What is the latest situation concerning this aircraft? Can he say whether delivery will be made before the 1972 elections? Can he say what was the estimated cost for each plane in 1963 and what is that figure today? What was the total cost of the order in 1963 and what will be the total figure on delivery? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Treasurer. Does he agree that lower consumer prices are in the national economic interest? If he does so agree, will he ensure that efforts by supermarkets to offer the public a wide range of pharmaceutical products, until now restricted to pharmacies, at greatly reduced prices are not frustrated through any precipitate action by his Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service and it concerns the proposed new legislation announced in the Treasurer's Budget Speech relative to child care centres. I ask the Minister: Will those firms be included in the assistance which are prepared to provide child care centres within their establishments for the benefit of employees, particularly women who are responsible for the sole support of their families? 
Did the Prime Minister receive on 12th February 1971 a letter from the then Minister for Supply,  Sir Kenneth  Anderson, stating in respect of the Government's purchase of aircraft from Jetair Australia Ltd that it was unfortunate that normal procedures were not followed? Can he state why normal procedures were not followed? 
Can the Minister for Labour inform the House the unemployment figures for the month of February, particularly for the State of South Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. I understand that in the United States the Federal Government controls motor vehicle safety standards and that compliance with those standards by the automotive industry, both local and foreign, is mandatory. I ask: To what extent is the Australian car owner protected with similar safety standards? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Defence by stating that in 1951 the Department of the Army made a decision to establish a central ordnance depot in South Australia. For this purpose 312 acres of land was acquired at Elizabeth North. As successive Ministers for the Army have informed this House that the ordnance depot will be established, can the Minister inform the House what is the latest position of this project? 
1 have listened attentively to speeches submitted in this debate by members of the Opposition and the kindest remark that I can make is that I sympathise with their endeavour. As a member for the past 9 years in Opposition when previous Budgets were debated, I cannot recall a more half-hearted, futile attempt to criticise the Government's Budget. Although I understand the ideology which motivates conservatives' action, it is always disheartening to them when socialist parties present a Budget. So, as a socialist, I wish honourable members opposite well and, for the future advancement of Australia, may they have many more years on the Opposition benches. 
I rise to support the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and to oppose the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  deserves the congratulations of this House for submitting a positive and constructive Budget in the interest of Australians generally. The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition seeks to achieve nothing but cheap, political kudos at the expense of Australia's future. The Leader of the Opposition advocated a 90-day freeze on all incomes and prices in Australia. He urged the Australian Government to convene a national conference with State governments, unions and employer organisations to reach an agreed program to fight inflation, the conference first to agree on an income and prices freeze and then on guidelines for the control of future wage and price increases. This is the man whose Party, as the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government, administered the affairs of the Australian Parliament for the past 23 years. In 1944, the Curtin Labor Government put to the Australian people a referendum seeking Federal powers to control prices, and it was the Liberal Party attitude on that occasion to campaign for a 'No' vote. It was the Liberal-Country Party's action, when in Government, to sit idly by when the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission removed the quarterly cost of living adjustment. These same people, when in Government, continually blamed the inflationary trend on wage increases anc), on all occasions when the Commission discussed national wage cases, the Government of the day had legal representation at the hearing to oppose the submissions of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Similarly at that time when the Australian Labor Party was in Opposition, it introduced in this House countless urgency motions seeking the Federal powers by referendum or to approach the 6 States, which on many occasions were controlled by Liberal governments, to concede the powers whereby the Australian Government could establish a Federal price control system. 
It is true my own State, South Australia, has a limited price control system, but only the Australian Government can effectively legislate price control. On each occasion when these matters were discussed, our opponents opposite, by the use of their numbers, defeated our attempts to grapple with the inflationary problem. Now we see the Leader of the Opposition calling for talks between the Federal and State governments, unions and employers, to combat inflation. This conference would identify the harms and evils of inflation and set an agreed program for restraint of income and prices with the national conference to consider guidelines for moderated price and wage advances in the future. He further advocated that, throughout the period of guidelines application, it would be desirable to have a prices notification system. Companies with a turnover of more than a determined figure would be required to notify price increases. 
The Whitlam Labor Government has already placed on the statute book legislation for a prices justification tribunal. This Parliament has also established an all-Party Parliamentary Committee on Prices representative of this House to the Senate, to inquire urgently into price movements. My own personal view is that, while this machinery will provide important information to the Parliament on price movements, it will have little overall effect on the general gallop of prices in this country. The only positive alternative is to clothe the Australian Parliament with the Federal powers to initiate a Federal price control system. I would hope that this Labor Government would give serious consideration to the proposition that, at the first opportunity when a national election is held, the people of Australia be asked by referendum to alter the Australian Constitution to enable legislation of this nature to be given effect. 
Now,  Mr Speaker,  I will take the opportunity to speak during this Budget debate on 2 matters that are of important interest to me and which affect all Australians generally, namely the fiasco of the present health discussions and the criticisms by a minority of the people of the Labor Government's policy on education. Since the announcement of the 
Government's proposal to introduce in 1974 a national health scheme to replace the present unfair, inefficient voluntary health scheme of the previous Tory governments, the doctors, together with other people who have a direct commercial interest, have unleashed a tirade of abuse, for the express purpose of creating confusion and doubt within the community as to the benefits and protections which would be enjoyed under a national health scheme. I can recall this same atmosphere when the Chifley Labor Government in 1947 introduced and passed legislation for a free national health scheme. On that occasion the same interest which is loudly denouncing Labor's health policy - namely the Australian Medical Association - took an injunction against the legislation to the High Court of Australia. 
If the honourable member will be a little patient, I will tell him. The Court, on that occasion, ruled in favor of the AMA and its decision, in so ruling, was that it was unconstitutional to require doctors to write in triplicate a medical prescription. The High Court judges claimed that to compel doctors to perform this act was industrial conscription. The national Press has widely publicised the doctors' case how much work they are required to do, the long hours worked, the low financial remuneration, plus the high cost of maintaining their clinics. I took particular interest in a Press article, which recently appeared in a South Australian newspaper, highlighting the case of the poor doctor trying to make an honest dollar. The article was headed: '$30,000 per annum, $120 per week'. This doctor, a central Adelaide general practitioner, is an unapologetic $30,000 a year man. 
If the honourable member will be a little patient I will come to that in a minute. He earned $29,000 in the financial year 1971-72. When he adds the figure for the year to last June 30th, he expects his income will be $32,000. Such a sum would appear to brand the doctor as one of the money-grabbing ogres in the public - politician - doctors battle. But appearances, claims the newspaper, can be deceptive. This doctor's income takes on a different complexion when the surgery on practice expenses and taxation is performed. He claims practice and other costs reduced his 1971-72 income to $14,000 and income tax, which included a heavy provisional tax slug, took another $8,000, leaving him with a net income of $6,000. The same newspaper article went on to say: 
I expect this year to be better' he said. "The figure should be $9,000 . . .' 
That would be a 50 per cent increase on the previous year. Recently the South Australian State Government legislated a process order. Before the order patients paid $3 for a consultation when the most common fee was $3.40. The charge for home visits was $5 when the most common fee was $5.25. Now this doctor has boosted his fees by much more than the 15 per cent laid down by the State Government. Consultation charges are now $3.80 and home visits cost $6, but he is still within the Government's legal limit of $3.90 for a consultation and $6.05 for a home visit. That article reported that the doctor said: 
I did not want to increase my fees at all, and I would not have if  Mr Dunstan  had not stuck his nose in.' 
This doctor, by newspaper reports, bought his one-man practice  5i  years ago for $4,500. The newspaper article states: 
My capital has gone down the drain now,' he -said. 'I could not sell this practice today even if I wanted to - not with the threat of a national scheme next year." 
The newspaper further states that this doctor is not in a typical practice as it is known today. It is a one-man outfit when the plural practice prevails. He does not employ locums. He does not demand appointments and 60 per cent of his patients are pensioners. The pensioner emphasis means lower fees and more routine work, demanding regular visits to nursing homes and a mountain of paper work. The doctor claims that 8,500 patients' visits a year are as much as he can handle. But because of pressure he finds himself doing 10,000 with some assistance. He works as much as 60 hours a week, between seeing patients and driving. Another 10 hours is spent in filling out forms, writing letters and keeping records. He is on call 24 hours a day. He claims he cannot afford the $40a-month retainer for the night emergency service, plus the $10 fee for a locum call. He drives a Honda Civic, his wife a Valiant Galant. Both cars are leased because they get a full tax deduction. They own their own home in an inner eastern suburb, and he claims he has had 9 weeks' holiday in  5i  years. He says in order to take a holiday he could not now pay the $300 a week locums demand - this is understandable; he is only getting $120 himself - and he condemns doctors who close down their practices while they go away on holidays. This doctor does not want any part of a nationalised medical scheme. He fled Britain to escape one. He is bitter about politicians, claiming they continually mislead the public by giving doctors' gross incomes instead of their net earnings. He sums up his professional philosophy this way: 
In my own practice, I am my own boss, I can use my own judgment. And I do not want to work with politicians who do not tell the truth.' 
I am indebted to my good' friend and colleague the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  who made a magnificent speech in an adjournment debate during the last session. As usual this member who is always meticulous in his research obtained the facts from the reports submitted each year to this Parliament by the Commissioner of Taxation on people who evade tax. On that occasion the honourable  member  for Hunter drew the attention of the House to a doctor who in 2 years understated his income by $260,000 and a nurse receptionist who understated her income by $38,098 for the year 1966-67. Another doctor is mentioned in the taxation report as having evaded taxation of $29,368 for 1969-70. Other doctors are mentioned in the reports and various amounts of evasion are set out. The point I would like to make is that these amounts are in addition to the actual amounts that each of these members of the medical profession claimed as income. 
I have mentioned these cases, not from the viewpoint of who is right or who is telling the truth because the facts speak for themselves. I  do  so because from the first time the Federal Labor Leader announced Labor's policy to introduce a national health scheme - for which subsequently the people of Australia by their vote gave a mandate - the Australian Medical Association, individual doctors, representatives of hospital benefit funds and the Press have launched a campaign to vilify and abuse the scheme for the express purpose of creating an area of confusion amongst the Australian people as to the true purpose of our health scheme. Notwithstanding those critics, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  will next year introduce Labor's health policy and it will in the main provide the fundamental principle that health care is a basic right to be provided according to need and not rationed according to wealth; that 4 out of 5 people will pay less for health insurance coverage than they do now; that as patients they will be guaranteed a free choice of doctors; their doctors will be paid for each service they perform and will continue as private practitioners. Under the present scheme people have to pay a flat amount whatever they earn. This is most unfair as it means that those earning more pay less for their health care after claiming tax concessions. We will also automatically cover unemployed people, certain pensioners and large families on low incomes. Hospital care will be free in public wards of hospitals, but if they want to have private ward or private hospital treatment, or wish to have their own doctors treat them in hospital, they can do so. Part of the cost of this extra service will be paid by the Commonwealth, as at present, and they can insure privately - as now - to recover the dfference. These contributions will be tax deductible. 
Now I come to the question of education, and on this issue I am proud to be a member of the Australian Labor Party. For the last 23 years children have been neglected in obtaining a reasonable education standard, other than students whose parents were in a financial position to pay, or whose parents were prepared to go without the luxuries of life. In the forefront of Labor's election campaign last December, a better deal in education was a major plank of our election platform, and I am certain that this issue was a major factor in the Australian people electing the Whitlam Labor Government. On that occasion among the promises on education made to the elector, we stated we would establish an Australian Schools Commission to determine the needs of students in government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools. From the 1974 academic year, fees will be abolished at Universities, colleges of advanced education and technical colleges. 
Within weeks of his appointment to the portfolio of Australian Minister for Education,  Mr Kim  Beazley had established the machinery for setting up an Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, from which this Parliament has already received a report. Now 8 months after the election, the Labor Government in its first Budget to this Parliament, has earmarked a total of $843m to be spent on education during the 1973-74 year, or almost double the amount provided in the previous Liberal-Country Party coalition 
Government's budget. In effect, education spending in Australia will get a $404m boost. From 1 January 1974, the Australian Government will assume full financial responsibility for tertiary education at universities, colleges of advanced education, State teachers' colleges and other approved teachers' colleges, including the abolition of fees at all these institutions and at technical colleges. In addition, from the beginning of 1974, a non-competitive means tested living allowance will be offered to all full-time unbonded Australian students admitted to approved courses in tertiary and approved post-secondary institutions. The allowances will be higher than those available under existing scholarship schemes. 
But it is in the field of primary and secondary education, I believe, that the greatest need of assistance is required. Previous Liberal-Country Party governments have deliberately used this important section of our youths' education for political advantage, and I refer to the various legislative Acts of science laboratories, school libraries, and sectional handouts, all announced just prior to election days for the past 23 years. So it is like a breath of cool wind on a very hot day to hear the Minister for Education stating that legislation will be introduced during this session of Parliament to establish the Australian Schools Commission.  Mr Beazley  has also announced to this House that the major recommendations of the Interim Committee of the Schools Commission has been accepted by the Australian Government and will mean new programs from 1974, aimed at improving the quality of education, and promoting the accessibility to education. Both government and non-government schools will receive substantial additional funds to meet general recurrent costs and for new and replacement buildings and equipment. The Minister for Education stated that special programs will promote rapid development in areas of particular need, such as school libraries, teacher development and education of the handicapped, and education in socially disadvantaged localities. 
Educational strategies and techniques must of course change to meet changing needs and the Government will support programs recommended by the Committee to foster innovation and development in primary and secondary education. He further states that the special programs for socially disadvantaged schools represents an important departure from Australian traditions in public education. Supplementary funds will be made available to schools identified as being disadvantaged on the basis of certain characteristics of their cachment areas, so that they can respond to the particular educational difficulties faced by a group of relatively poor children. 
The Government's needs policy requires that special attention and resources be devoted to the education of those groups of children who, in the past, have had least public money spent on their education, because they leave school earlier and gain no benefit from expensive tertiary education facilities. If the revolution in accessibility to education is to be achieved, we must discriminate in favour of those children in greatest need. So, it is the Labor Government which will provide for all students, irrespective of whether their parents are in a financial position to afford to educate them. Provided that they have the talent, the fullest opportunity will be available to each of them to obtain the education to which they are entitled and which they will be able to receive under this Government. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. Since, the announcement by the Minister of financial assistance to be made available for recreation and youth centres many organisations within my electorate have sought details of the scheme. Provision has also been included within the Victorian Budget for increased finance to be made available for community youth, sport and recreation facilities. To what extent are the States and the Australian Government co-operating in planning youth and recreation centres? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I preface the question by stating that a number of constituents have expressed great concern at the future employment opportunities at the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury and Woomera in South Australia. Can the Minister inform the House as to the present and future operations of this important organisation, particularly as they affect the security and employment opportunities of all employees? 
Has the Minister for Labour seen an advertisement by W. C. Wentworth published in today's 'Sydney Morning Herald' which is designed to cast a reflection upon the veracity of the Prime Minister by publishing a set of statistics which purport to show that labour's share of the gross domestic product has increased since 1948-1949? Has he examined the figures contained in the advertisement and, if so, has he any comment to make upon them? 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by stating that I am inter.ested in a request by a naturalised Australian Chinese constituent whose aged parents, who are also naturalised and live in Sydney, are not enjoying the best of health. I shall be pleased to make the details available to the Prime Minister. I ask: Will the honourable gentleman in his forthcoming discussions with the Premier of the People's Republic of China request that sympathetic consideration be given by his Government to the granting of exit visas to Chinese citizens who desire to be reunited with their families in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for External Territories. Following his recent visit to Christmas Island, is the Minister concerned about the wages and working conditions of Asian workers employed by the British Phosphate Commission? Does he see a conflict between the Commission's charter to extract phosphate at the lowest possible cost and the provision of wage justice to workers in an Australian territory? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. Having regard to the large direct labour force his Department employs, will the Minister inform the House the extent to which this force and the resources of his Department are used in the training of apprentices? 
Has the Prime Minister received an offer from the Acting Premier of South Australia referring to the Australian Parliament powers over prices and incomes for a period of 12 months? Further, have any other Premiers made similar offers? 
 I preface my question to the Minister for Defence by saying that I understand that all servicemen who work additional hours outside their usual hours of work are subsequently reimbursed with time off provided that time off is taken within 28 days. In view of the outstanding efforts of servicemen during the recent disastrous floods in the north of Australia - particularly members of the Royal Australian Air Force, some of whom lost their lives - will the Minister give an assurance that no serviceman will be debarred from receiving time off for the extra hours worked? 
Has the Minister for Transport seen the report in the 'Australian' of 24 July that Qantas Airways Ltd is considering re-routing many of its services to Europe so that they will go through Kuala Lumpur instead of Singapore? It is a fact that Singapore Airlines Ltd is demanding far more capacity to and from Australia than it is entitled to? If so, is Qantas in a position to resist those demands? Can the Minister provide details of the present capacity at which Singapore Airlines operates and of the increase it is seeking? 
-Can the Minister for Labor and Immigration inform the House why he has so hurriedly deported recently to the United States a man named Utter? 
-Is the Minister for Defence aware of recent suggestions that anti-riot operations should become the top priority task of the Australian armed Services? Is this a fact? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is the Government's policy in favour of the reintroduction of the automatic cost of living adjustment an essential part of its anti-inflationary strategy? Is it a fact that the Government's positive submissions to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are in marked contrast with the attitudes of previous Australian governments? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to a claim by executive officers of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots that pilots of Trans-Austalia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia receive salaries ranging from between $7,000 to $21,000 per annum? Has he any information relating to the actual earnings of domestic airline pilots in Australia? 
-Has the Minister for Defence seen an advertisement for the December issue of the 'Pacific Defence Reporter' carried in the current edition of that magazine? Does that advertisement imply that the Minister has contributed an article headed 'No Threat for Fifteen Years'? Did the Minister in fact contribute such an article? 
-Can the Minister for Transport say what is the position as far as airport rentals are concerned? Has a final decision been made on this matter? Are the complaints about alleged increases justified? 
I address a question to the Minister for Services and Property. What amount is legally expendable under the Electoral Act by a member of the House of Representatives and by a member of the Senate for campaign purposes? Is there any restriction on the amount of campaign funds which may be spent by political parties? If not, is there any way by which this expenditure can be checked or limited? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Services and Property. Under the Electoral Act is it permissible for political parties to arrange pacts or deals concerning who shall or who shall not contest certain elections? Is it also permissible for deals of this kind to place in jeopardy the seat of a sitting member? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Housing and Construction been drawn to reports that the Reserve Bank of Australia has instructed the savings banks to curb their lending for housing? What effect will this have on the home building industry? 
-Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware of a report that under his administration of the national employment and training scheme 22 persons have been specially trained for unskilled positions? Will he inform the House whether this is a fact? 
-Is the Treasurer aware of any recent economic statistics which bear out the soundness of the strategy which he set out last Tuesday in his Budget Speech and which provide a firm foundation for business confidence? 
-Has the Minister for Transport heard of claims that Avis Rent-A-Car System Pty Ltd is receiving preferential treatment at airports from this Government? Are these reports true? 
-I rise to support Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and to take this opportunity of congratulating the Treasurer, Bill Hayden on the introduction of his first Budget. I am confident that Bill Hayden, as he is a young man, will be introducing many Labor budgets in this Parliament. The Whitlam Labor Government is concerned with the welfare of the people of Australia. Prior to the election to office of a Labor Government in 1 972 many discrepancies existed throughout Australia's social structure. Therefore there feU upon the newly elected Government the mighty task of adjusting some of the inadequacies meted out to the Australian people during 23 years of dominating, suppressive Liberal rule. The preoccupation of the Liberal Government throughout its years of office with the dog eat dog way of life left much to be desired for the workers, for the young and the aged persons within the community. 
In spite of the wishes of the majority of the people, an increasing commitment to Vietnam was developed by the Liberal Government.  (Quorum formed)  Our young men were sent to fight and often died in a war that was directed and governed by powers outside of the interests of the majority of the Vietnamese and Australian people- a war in fact that was perpetuated by capitalistic interests. Moneys that could have been used for the betterment of living for the people of Australia were used by the Liberal Government against our neighbours in a destructive and inhumane way. Millions of dollars were spent in Veitnam during the Liberal term of office, with only a minor percentage of those moneys being spent in a humanitarian way. 
In May of this year the Prime Minister, the honourable Gough Whitlam, announced a contribution of $lm for relief work among refugees in Indo-China. This amount was additional to the $200,000 announced in March for the IndoChina Operational Group of the International Committee of the Red Cross. This money assisted the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in relief and rehabilitation projects for refugees in aU parts of Indo-China. On 3 April 1975, during a statement to launch the Indo-China-Vietnam appeal, the Prime Minister spoke of the promptness with which our Government had acted to assist in the plight of homeless refugees. During a statement by the then Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, the honourable Bill Morrison, on 28 April 1975, the Acting Minister stated: 
Australia has brought more refugees out of Vietnam than any other government except the United States. Australia was one of the last governments to withdraw its embassy from Saigon. 
This was done in the face of endless rabid criticism from the Opposition which having involved the people of Australia in a bloody inhumane battle, could only offer platitudes and criticism for the Labor Government which was, as the greatest number of Australian people were, conscious of the depth of the humanitarian needs that dominated the Vietnam scene. 
With the drawing to a close of the Vietnam war, the homeless, sick, young and old struggled to survive in a country torn by 30 years of pillage, destruction and shackles applied by financial interests geographically far removed from Vietnam. The war in Vietnam was, at the outset, a civil war. The real character of the war never changed. What did change was the nature of the fighting and the level of violence. With the change came additional suffering and violence due to one factor- foreign intervention. The real result of foreign intervention- principally the United States on the side of Saigon and Russia on the side of Hanoi- was to raise the level of violence and to increase the capacity for mutual destruction on both sides. Foreign intervention made certain that the end, whoever would win, would be as bloody as possible. On 8 April 1975 the Prime Minister stated: . . . after all these years, after all the blunders and bloodshed of 30 years, what tolerable or feasible objective can any foreign government set for itself except the ending of the war, except the ending of the killing as soon as possible. We outsiders never had the right to intervene. But even if there were such a right or even if it were right to intervene, would anyone now suggest that any foreign Government resume that intervention? If we have learnt nothing else in the last 30 years we have surely learnt this much, at a heavy loss to ourselves but at a terrible one to the people we claimed to be helping. 
The Australian Government tried to apply its resources to save lives and to relieve suffering. With the drawing to a close of the war the main focus of attention in Australia as in other parts of the world centred on the children living in chaos unparalleled in history. It was the concern and the aim of our Government that eligible children be brought to this country for adoption by suitable families, this to be effected as promptly and as safely as possible. This indeed we achieved in the face of endless criticism laced with hysteria from members of the Opposition. Indeed, many were the members of this House who were beset by anxious, often deeply distressed prospective adoptive parents waiting to receive a Vietnamese child into their homes. The anxiety of these people was only heightened by the intense fear campaign fed through the media with no thought to the leagalities for adopting Vietnamese children. The Labor Government was concerned not only that children brought to this country should receive a warm receptive response from the proposed adoptive parents, but also that the future of these parents and the children be free from any danger of legal tangles that could arise should the correct procedure not be followed from the outset. Therefore, our Government was bound to require 2 conditions: That orphans be approved for exit from Saigon by the South Vietnamese Government for adoption in Australia; and that the States of Australia would guarantee that normal adoption procedures would be observed. 
On 23 July 1975 the Prime Minister announced that the Australian Government had decided to initiate a special survey of Vietnamese refugees who had settled recently in Australia He announced that the survey would take approximately 5 years, would be conducted by  Dr Jean  Martin of the Australian National University and would encompass such things as the refugees' reasons for leaving their own country; their social characteristics; their aspirations in their new homeland; what Australian Government assistance in maintenance and welfare they requested, or needed and received; the problems they thought they might have to face in settling in Australia and how these compared with the problems actually encountered; the problems of culture and language difference that they had to face; what happened to their cultural identity in the process of resettlement; and to what extent, if at all, they suffered from racism. 
With no previous study of refugees living in this country, the task was made more laborious for the Labor Government. However, it should be carefully observed that this was the first time that Australia had instigated with regard to racial origins resettlement opportunities for Asian displaced persons who were not readily identified or connected with this country. 
Australia has worked closely with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and part of our Government's commitment to this world service has been to take refugees from Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia. I ask honourable members to think well about the immense responsibilities associated with caring for homeless people. The Labor Government concerned itself firstly with the humanitarian needs influencing the issues. Our country selected refugees who were least likely to be selected by other countries, people who did not have recognised skills and who normally would not be eligible for entry to Australia, people who were caught in a morass of social upheaval and degradation, people given the opportunity- to use a good Australian expression- to have a 'fair go', which is something the Liberal governments during their 23 years of rule, were loath to give the vast majority of Australians. Indeed, the cry often went up from the populace during Labor's early months of office for the Liberals to give the new Government a ' fair go '. 
It was well known how neglected our pensioners, health services, education and the many social agencies were within Australia. It took, however, a Labor Government to face and tackle these problems that had been so readily swept under the carpet by previous Liberal governments. The task indeed was a formidable one, but the Labor Government tackled it determined to shorten the distance between the affluent and poor. I have already spoken of the enormous sums of money spent in Vietnam during that time when the proud cry of the Liberals and Country Party was 'AH the way with LBJ'. Did they ever consider the expense to this country, not monetary alone but socially too- effects that were being felt throughout by young and old alike living in the lower income strata? Inflation, in spite of the Opposition's protestations, was born and nurtured during these years of Vietnam, born and nurtured by capitalist interests in Australia and overseas. Theirs was not to reason, only to rake in the ever-growing pile of the almighty dollar. 
It is a sad despairing fact that wars make profits for the few in this world. Indeed, there were those in Australia who did not want to see an end to the war in Vietnam because their profits would drop- as indeed they did. The working man in Australia paid- in blood, sweat and tears. The profits he reaped were often sorrow, grief, horror and destruction. So Labor, when elected in 1972, set about the mighty task of serving the people of Australia in a humanitarian way. Many have been our critics- not all, I might add, from the Opposition. 'Too much too soon' got and still gets a popular hearing, although the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was heard to say on the eve of the Budget 'too little too late'- that from a man whose party was loath to give even a little to those non-economic units in society, the old and the young. 
The Australian Labor Government has raised all pensions and social security payments. At the same time the Government is improving the whole social security program in other fundamental ways. We do not believe that social security comes from cash benefits alone. In July, 1974 pensioners received their biggest increase on record- an extra $5 a week. It was the second increase in 1974. Substantial increases have also been made in repatriation and service benefits. New benefits including free medical care for exprisoner of war have been introduced. Pensions now represent about 24 per cent of average weekly earnings. Included in the Budget of the Treasurer, Bill Hayden, are more increases for pensioners. My friend, the Labor Government, during its short time of reign has met, and I have no doubt will continue to meet, hard criticism from our friends in opposition. The boys with the vested interests are against much of the Government's social reforms. However, this Government will honour its pledges to the people of Australia- the people who in 1972 gave the Labor Government the mandate to institute social reform. The Government has, since it came to power, substantially increased repatriation benefits and introduced new benefits for ex-servicemen. 
The Government has increased the subsidy under the Aged Persons Homes Act, now the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act, from $2 for $1 to $4 to $1 and widened the scope of the Act to encompass accommodation for disabled adults. The subsidy was also extended to local government borrowings which were previously ineligible to attract a grant under the Act. The Government approved 2 increases in the maximum subsidy limits under the Act, and in April introduced a separate subsidy of up to $1,600 a unit for the acquisition of land. The 2 increases saw the subsidy limits rise from $5,200 to $7,800 for a single unit and from $6,000 to $9,100 for a double unit. With the introduction of the $4 to $ 1 subsidy these limits rose to $9,360 and $10,920 respectively, plus a maximum of $1,920 a unit for land. I feel that local councils should be quicker to take advantage of this grant. Surely this would increase co-operation between the first and third tier of government- the money resources of Federal Government effectively linked with local knowledge and expertise of local government. Only in this way can the true needs of welfare of the people of Australia be met. In my electorate of Bonython 10 aged persons homes are subsidised. Grants approved since 1972 to these homes have amounted to $685,917, and subsidies paid since December 1972 amount to $350,032. Subsidies are paid as work progresses. 
I now turn to the Meals on Wheels subsidy. The Government has increased the basic rate of subsidy paid to Meals on Wheels services from the December 1972 rate of 15 cents plus 5 cents for approved vitamin C subsidy to the present rate of 25 cents plus 5 cents approved vitamin C subsidy, this operating from 1 July 1974. Concerning the Meals on Wheels subsidy operating from Salisbury in my electorate of Bonython, the subsidy paid here as from December 1972 amounts to $10,469, with the number of meals being served per month approximately 1,400. In relation to handicapped persons' welfare, we have announced major new initiatives to improve services to the handicapped people and voluntary, religious and similar organisations caring for them. They include a free of means test incentive allowance of $5 a week to all disabled people employed in approved sheltered workshops and an increase in the rate of existing capital and equipment subsidy to sheltered workshops and handicapped children's training centres from $2 for $1 to $4 to $1. Subsidies will be paid for maintaining existing buildings and for rehabilitation and recreation facilities, including holiday cottages and camps. 
In the electorate of Bonython the Handicapped Person's Welfare Act has benefited greatly 2 caring services. Firstly, the Central Districts Mentally Handicapped Children's Association of Smithfield Plains has been paid a subsidy of $43,000 for capital building costs and equipment. This equipment includes a kindergarten and workshops. There is operating in conjunction with the Smithfield Plains establishment a rental hostel at Main North Road, Pooraka, again in my electorate. The rental for this hostel is subsidised at $1,250 per annum plus $1,400 per annum toward cost of salaries. 
There is one other area of finance about which I wish to speak, that of the financial assistance that my electorate of Bonython has received under the Regional Employment Development scheme. The RED scheme has come in for a great amount of criticism. However, when the then Minister for Labor and Immigration, the honourable Clyde Cameron, introduced this measure it was meant to provide jobs for unemployed people. This was effected most efficiently within my area. However, the total benefits covered a wider range than would first be apparent. The amount of money my electorate has received at this stage from the RED scheme is $4,238,926. I want to take this opportunity to thank the previous Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, on the marvellous way in which he operated this RED scheme. As I stated at the beginning of my speech - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to a report that a leading Sydney racehorse trainer has transported a champion racehorse named 'Grand Memory' to Singapore in mistake for a hack? Is it also a fact that the animal cannot be returned to Australia under quarantine regulations for another 12 months? If so, what can be done to shorten this period? 
Br EVERINGHAM- It has been brought to my attention that a champion racehorse called 'Grand Memory' is now visiting abroad by mistake. Perhaps this was due to a phenomenal memory lapse on someone's part. I also understand that one of the reasons for the animated and excited appearance of the right honourable member for Lowe this morning is that he is finding it difficult to retain a grand memory of this magnificent animal which was so lucrative for him. I do not think very much can be done but I will try to offset the error, firstly because I would like to help conserve foreign exchange in the racing industry and, secondly, because I know the right honourable member for Lowe needs the money. 
-Is the Minister for Defence aware of Press reports that there are dumps of mustard gas and phosgene from World War II at various locations throughout Australia, including the Blue Mountains? Is there any substance in these reports? Is there any danger to the public arising from these munitions dumps? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Has he seen reports that the United States Government has approached the Australian Government on the matter of air navigation charges and the suggestion in such reports that the United States Secretary of State,  Dr Kissinger,  has involved himself personally and demanded immediate negotiations? 
-I ask the Treasurer: Was there a plea at the Premier's Conference for more funds for welfare housing? Is it not a fact that some of the Government's spending cuts have, however, resulted in less funds for housing, noting in particular the cut of $2 9m for the Australian Housing Corporation? 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. The two people I bring to my defence are you and the honourable member for Bendigo because I was in your company for quite a considerable time. 
I join with other members in congratulating you,  Mr Speaker,  on your election to the high office of  Speaker,  and to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has just made his second speech to this Parliament. In his first speech he had the humiliating task of admitting that the naval program which the Australian Labor Party Government initiated was a better naval program than the one he proposed when he was Minister for the Navy. He had to admit that Labor's program would produce better and earlier results than his program, in economic and strategic terms. The Minister may make play with words. When it comes to facts, he has had to eat the words he uttered as Minister for the Navy and as shadow Minister for Defence. In his first speech to the new Parliament the Minister had to admit that he was wrong and that Labor was right. 
I am honestly and firmly of the opinion that parliamentary democracy in Australia suffered a great blow with the events of last year. In no other country which operates under the Westminster system is it possible for a government which has a majority in the peoples' House to be deposed. The House of the people, after the 
Labor Government had been sacked, still showed a vote in which the ALP had the majority among the elected members of the House. The Labor Government was wrongly sacked. All the reactionary forces combined with the Liberal Party of Australia, the National Country Party and the Press barons to organise the last election when the Government was unpopular. The Labor Government was under constant pressure for an election within 24 hours of being elected in 1972, and it was under that pressure that it endeavoured to operate during its 3 years of office. This was a period when the Labor Government was pushed to the people twice for an election. Such are the devious ways of the people who now hold office. Their way is not that of the people but rather that of the chosen few. The vested interests of these few among us contrived to force this election. 
There has been criticism of the Labor people and their attitude towards the Governor-General when he opened Parliament. I see it this way. Our dispute with the Governor-General is important, because of the type of action which he took on 1 1 November. It cannot be condoned. We must carry this fight forward with us, and never be guilty of forgetting the injustice that was meted out to the Australian people on that day. It has done the coalition parties no credit. It is possible that under normal election circumstances the Liberal-Country parties would have been elected to Government. We all know that. Indeed, they were, but- this is an important factortheir credibility has been lost. Where are the standards of which they so often spoke during their term of office as Opposition? I would say that those standards they were so fond of relating were double standards- one set for them, and another for us. 
The Liberal Country Party preoccupation throughout its years of office with the dogeatdog way of life leaves much to be desired for the workers, the young and the aged in our community. Within a very short time, their leader, the Prime Minister (Malcolm Fraser), was announcing his cuts to help the economy. The Governor-General, in his Speech at the opening of Parliament, said: 
The Government's long-term objective is to prevent the growth of centralised bureaucratic domination in Australia, the increasing dependence of individuals on the state. It is to encourage the development of an Australia in which people have maximum freedom and independence to achieve their goals in life, in ways in which they decide. 
As part of this approach, the Government will place great emphasis on directing welfare assistance to those in real need. Unless there is a concentration on real need, schemes of assistance do not provide maximum possible assistance to the disadvantaged and become excessively costly. The 
Government does not believe that the poor and disadvantaged can be best helped by increasing the dependence of everyone on what the Government chooses to provide. 
My Government believes that adequate opportunities for the disadvantaged as well as the most rapid improvement in social service provisions, are dependent on people being free and encouraged to achieve their best. The disadvantaged must be helped in ways which leave them the maximum independence. 
Honourable members, I put it to you that this coalition Government sitting here today is not one that is concerned with the welfare of the people of Australia. Rather it is concerned only with the welfare and interests of those few among us to whom poverty is unknown. For over 20 years, pensioners, health services, education and many social changes in Australia were neglected and the social problems associated with this neglect were swept under the carpet by the rule of the Menzies Government and subsequent Liberal coalition governments. It has never considered the expense to our country, not only monetary but socially too, effects felt by young and old alike, living in the lower income strata- not then, not now, and, I would venture to say, not ever. Too much too soon was the cry we heard from the Liberal- Country Party benches while they were in Opposition, but it was not from the under privileged that we heard this cry. After 23 years of Liberal oppression, it was left to the Labor Government to try to rectify some of the social injustices that had grown like a malignant cancer during those years of Liberal rule. Now with the economic measures of this Government, I see a return to the social desert for the Australian people, a return to the 50s and early 60s- to the time of Menzies ' rule. 
And where does  Mr Fraser  start his economic cuts? They are not with the upper level of our society but with the pensioners. One of the most despicable cuts of the present Government has been the removal of the funeral benefit to our pensioners. At a mere saving of $3m, he is depriving the pensioners of some peace of mind at a time when financial matters can, and often do, prove to be embarrassing. With one sweep of his pen there can have been little thought and no compassion given to this move. For a paltry $3m he dealt a severe blow against human dignity. The latest blow to our pensioners is the abolition of plans to scrap the means test within 3 years. How differently this latest Fraserism was received in the Press than was Gough Whitlam 's statement that the complete abolition of the means test would take longer than the Labor Government had anticipated. It was under the Labor Government that the first steps to abolish the means test were taken. In the Liberal Party's pOliCY speech of the 1 975 election  Mr Fraser  said that his government would stand by the Liberal Party's commitment to abolish the means test for pensioners. Now that Government within weeks of commencing its term of office has abandoned any promise that the move will be carried out within 3 years.  Mr Fraser  is quoted as having said it would be done 'as appropriately as it is possible'. 
As a further strike against pensioners of this nation  Mr Fraser  has delayed any pension increases for 2 months, and yet, with almost the same stroke of his pen, he has reinstated the superphosphate bounty to those privileged few, at a cost this year of over $30m, and its cost next year could be over $60m. Even this economic measure has its social structure, for out of 2300 farmers, 1800 are to get $141 per year, and the rest of the bounty is to be divided between the wealthy. Where is the social justice in that move? With the superphosphate bounty, the chemical companies will be getting their chop of the profits too. This bounty is not only a grant to the farmers of Australia but also an indirect grant to the big chemical companies. They certainly know where their priorities lie.  Mr Fraser  's economic axe falls only on the socially deprived, it would seem. Despicable is the act of cutting the use of cars for disabled persons travelling to and from the repatriation hospitals. So too are the cuts to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in respect of food including eggs for the Aboriginal children. This man, this leader of the LiberalNational Country Party Government, is despicable in the manner in which he is eliminating the benefits for the little people through expenditure cuts, while at the same time lining the pockets of the wealthy grazier. 
Let us not forget the cuts made to the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Adelaide. The Adelaide Singers will have to be disbandeda petty economic move- and at the same time, there is a strong possibility of the reintroduction of the unpopular television licence. We await the decision on this matter for it was only deferred by Cabinet. Will these licences be reintroduced with the Lynch Budget, or earlier. 
Much nearer home in South Australia, and causing great concern in my electorate of Bonython, is the statement by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  that Woomera is to be reduced to a care and maintenance level. Who is fooled by a statement such as that? This has been the case for some years now in Woomera. The proposal that the staff of 
Woomera and the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury, which is in my electorate of Bonython, will be reduced by 700 over a period of 12 months, is alarming and disturbing. With WRE, Salisbury, and Woomera, we have an ideal geographical situation for Army and Royal Australian Air Force tactical exercises. I believe that at the present time our own 2 services are investigating possible ways in which this area can be utilised. It is of great concern to myself and fellow members of the Opposition that Woomera could be abandoned and its personnel presently usefully engaged, suffer any bad effects. 
Some of the tragic cuts to take place are those affecting the ways of our nation- cuts to education and sporting bodies throughout Australia. Over l'/2 million amateur sporting enthusiasts will be deprived of grants first given by the Labor Government. While the little people suffer economically and socially, what does  Mr Fraser  do? Why, he employs a butler. How far is this man removed from the average Australian? The mind boggles. While our pensioners are wondering how they can afford to buy tea, he has his brought in by a butler.  Mr Fraser  has carried out a massacre of the innocent.  His  axe has fallen indiscriminately among the young, old and under-privileged. He has flamed a trail of horror through his economic policies, from royal commissions to deprived children. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I remind honourable members that this is the honourable member's maiden speech. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that citizens are entitled under section 73 of the Matrimonial Causes Act to obtain copies of decrees of divorce? Can the Attorney-General inform the House whether instructions have been given to the staff of the Supreme Court of New South Wales to refuse to provide copies of the decree in the case of  Robson  v  Robson'. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, refers to his recent statement that people who become voluntarily unemployed will not be eligible for unemployment benefit until a period of 6 weeks has elapsed. Will the period of 6 weeks date from the time the person becomes voluntarily unemployed or from the time he registers for employment? If the former is the case, does this represent a liberalisation of the present rules? If the latter is the case, will this cause considerable hardship to the unemployed person who has attempted to seek employment without the aid of the Commonwealth Employment Service? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the fact that Edgells Ltd is applying purchase quotas to dairy farmers who are also potato growers on the north-west coast area of Tasmania for whom potatoes are an important source of off-season income, but not to the property 'Kindred Downs' whose owner has a regular high income? If this is so, what action can the Government take to ensure that all growers have equal opportunity to sell their production to Edgells? 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek the indulgence of the House to make a personal explanation. I want to make an apology because tonight I named an attendant as being the person who opened the door of the chamber to let out the Prime Minister during a division. My information now is that the attendant did not let out the Prime Minister but that one of  Mr Fraser's  staff let him out. 
I inform honourable members that the Principal Attendant in the House,  Mr Sid  Riddle, retires on 14 May, which is before the House resumes. Many honourable members will know him as Sid. He is a very fine man, as I am sure everybody who has had anything to do with him is well aware.  Mr Riddle  joined the Department of the House of Representatives as a junior attendant in 1946. He served as Speaker's attendant from 1957 to 1967 and was promoted to Principal Attendant in April 1974. He has served the House and honourable members very well indeed, and I am sure that all honourable gentlemen would want me to write to him, congratulating him on his service and offering him the very best wishes of the House for his future. 
-Can the Minister for Health give the approximate cost to the taxpayer of recalling all Medibank cards and re-issuing cards before 1 October and the approximate cost to insurers in voluntary health funds of their reissue of cards under the new arrangements? 
-Will the Minister for Health confirm that the Medibank pamphlets produced by the honourable member for Macarthur state that private health insurance funds will offer full medical and hospital coverage for a family at a cost of $350 a year? Will the Minister also confirm that private health insurance funds in Western Australia have stated that intermediate ward coverage for a family will cost $417 a year and private ward coverage $500 a year? Will the Minister agree that these pamphlets are adding to the growing confusion about the Government's Medibank proposals and that $160,000 has been wasted in producing them? 
-Does the Treasurer consider that the present high level of unemployment and the predicted even higher levels are necessary in order to reduce the rate of inflation? If so, how much unemployment does he consider to be necessary to reduce the rate of inflation to the level of 8 per cent, which is the average for the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries? If not, why has he not set a lower target for unemployment and used fiscal policies to achieve it? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact, as reported, that this month Indonesia has reinforced its armed forces in East Timor? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Canberra Times  of 8 October 1976 that Indonesian military forces in East Timor have launched a major offensive in an attempt to clean up the remaining pockets of Fretilin resistance before the monsoon season starts. 
If so, in his discussions in Jakarta on 8 October 1976 and subsequent days, did he inquire whether this report was accurate. 
If so, what did he ascertain. 
