I ask a question of the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it true that West German veterinarians are in Australia inspecting abattoirs? Will the visit result in meat trade with West Germany? Have the veterinarians demanded a very high standard of hygiene in our meat works? Will the Minister inform the House of activities in this direction? 
In view of the completion of the East-West standard gauge railway, will the Minister for Shipping and Transport consider further extensions of standard railway construction in other States? In particular, I would ask whether, because there is only a single track on the Sydney-Brisbane line via the Tablelands through Muswellbrook north, serious congestion with consequential delays in traffic movement has occurred. Will the Minister approach the New South Wales Government to formulate a proposal for the dupli cation of the standard gauge line initially to Werris Creek and subsequently through to Brisbane? 
I ask the Minister for the Army whether rifle clubs throughout Australia are finding it difficult to carry on and to expand owing to the high cost of ammunition. Did the Commonwealth, some years ago, make ammunition available to these clubs on a no charge basis? Do these clubs play an important part in training riflemen in safety and defence measures? Can the Minister inform the House whether there is any possibility of issuing the clubs with ammunition as was previously done by the Commonwealth? 
I direct a question to the Minister for National Development. Approaches have been made to me by the 
Hunter Valley Conservation Trust expressing concern that a final decision has not been reached between the Commonwealth and the New South Wales governments accepting the flood mitigation proposals that have been submitted to the New South Wales Government by that authority. The work already accomplished has been of enormous benefit to the Hunter Valley and it is hoped that a continuation of this work as recommended will proceed. Can the Minister state what the position is in relation to negotiations with the New South Wales Government as funds are urgently required to continue the flood mitigation work in this important valley? 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he is aware of the difficulty that rural subscribers and the Post Office are experiencing in putting into effect the current part privately erected plan for the connection of rural subscribers to automatic exchanges. Is he aware that in some instances rural producers are being asked to subscribe up to $4,000 for connection to automatic exchanges? Are the Minister and the Government examining the plan to overcome some of the difficulties? 
I address a question to the Acting Prime Minister. How many Austraiian trade commissioners are stationed in overseas countries? Have new appointments been made during the past 12 months? Are these trade commissioners making a valuable contribution to increasing Australia's overseas trade? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Immigration. I refer to the importance of Australia's immigration programme and to a recent Press article concerning migrant departures from Australia. I ask the Minister: What is the present posi tion concerning departures? Is the Minister concerned at the number of departures? What are the reasons for the departures and what studies have been carried out into them? 
I direct to the Minister for Primary Industry a question which relates to Australian meat exports to the United States of America. I preface it by saying that considerable concern is being expressed in my area that the meat export quota may be filled before the end of the calendar year which will lead to a disruption of the meat industry trade and a decline in stock prices. Can the Minister advise the likelihood of a suspension of exports to the USA before the end of the year? 
I direct my question to the Minister for National Development. 1 ask: Is Australia at present exporting huge quantities of ' base metals to overseas countries? Can the Minister indicate the Government's future policy for the processing of base metals and minerals such as bauxite here in Australia at secondary and tertiary levels? Would such policy, if implemented, bring great financial benefits to this country? 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry inform the House whether growers of readily saleable over quota wheat in the coming harvest will be paid up to $1.10 by the Australian Wheat Board if that readily saleable over quota wheat is sold before 30th September 1971? Further, will such over quota wheat that is sold by the Australian Wheat Board before the cut-off date be counted against the grower's  quote in  the  next  season? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
i direct my question to the Minister for immigration. As a result of his recent visit overseas can he inform us of the difficulties that we now face in the recruitment of skilled workers? What is the present ratio of skilled workers in the immigration programme? Does the Minister think that the ratio can be maintained? 
 I direct my question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In view of the widespread concern being publicly expressed at the present levels of various forms of pollution can the Minister say what action the Government proposes to combat the contamination of the air by motor vehicle exhaust gases? 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry tell me when wool growers, who are suffering the effects of drought and low wool prices can begin applying for grants under the Government's $30m emergency assistance scheme which is provided for in the Budget? 
I desire to take part in this debate and to concentrate my remarks mainly on the Department of Primary Industry, particularly so far as the meat industry is concerned, and on the Department of Trade and Industry. This financial year, it is estimated, $14m will be required to run the Department of Primary Industry. Over half that sum will be spent on staffing - mainly inspection staff - and the remainder will go to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. We have just heard the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  say that there is a crisis in the countryside. I want to talk about a brighter side of agriculture. While most of our primary industries are in serious trouble because of production and marketing problems, until the present time one section of primary industry has been a rather bright spot  in  mir rural sector. I refer to the Australian meat industry, covering lamb, mutton, pork and beef - particularly beef - production. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has announced that he has approved the allocation of $3,274,000 from the Meat Research Trust Account for meat research this financial year. More than $2m of this total will be for research associated with cattle and beef and almost $lm for investigation concerning mutton and lamb. Funds are provided by meat producers which are matched by the Commonwealth. These are the main source of the finance I have just mentioned. But the meat processing industry also contributes towards research into problems encountered in meat processing. Those contributions also are matched by the Commonwealth. 
Forty-two per cent of the total allocation would be to the Commonwealth" Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, 28 per. cent to State departments of agriculture, 18 per cent to universities and the remaining 12 per cent to Northern Territory Administration, the Australian Meat Board and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics as well as administrative costs. This indicates the interest of the Government and the Minister for Primary Industry in the carrying out of research at all levels of the meat industry. 
Australia is in the fortunate position with this industry that we consume approximate 70 per cent of what we produce. This forms a valuable local market - a valuable base load, in other words - for the industry. Our export earnings from this industry for the year ended 30tb June 1970 were over $380m. Beef accounted for $294,184,000 of this amount. These figures show that only wool exceeds meat in the primary produce section of our export earnings. Our export earnings from primary produce and minerals for the year ended 30th June 1970 was over $4,000m. Our main markets have been the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Canada and Japan. 
The Department of Primary Industry at the request of the United States Department of Agriculture has placed very strict and stringent hygienic conditions on our abattoirs and meat works. This has meant the expenditure of millions of dollars on those works to bring them up to the standard required for export licences. Abattoir managements, primary producers and meat operators face great problems when an export licence is cancelled. Cancellation is happening quite frequently. I have here the Weekly Times' of 16th September 1970. This is a Victorian publication. Its heading is: 'Two leading meat works lose 
United States licences.' The relevant article reads in part: 
Two of the biggest and most important meat works in Melbourne have had their licences to export to the United States withdrawn. 
The article goes on to state die - effect that this has had on the market. 
After cancellation, an adjustment period takes place until the works are brought up to the standard required by the United States Department of Agriculture. This is for the betterment of the trade and, in the long run, will pay dividends. Quotas have been set up by the United Suites Department of Agriculture on our export of meat to that country. Although Australia's 1970 exports of meat to the United States of America will receive a welcome 9,600 ton boost from allocations announced early in July, once again Australia's share of the United States market for meat subject to import law has been reduced. 
Prior to the introduction of the voluntary restraint agreement between major supplying countries and the United States for the 1969 shipping year - those are arrivals at United States ports during the calendar year 1969 - Australia had supplied in 1968 over 50 per cent of the imported meats in question. In fact Australia had voluntarily suspended shipments late in (968 to avoid triggering United States quota legislation, and this affected its market share for that year also. In 1967 with no controls Australia supplied 53.4 per cent of United States meat imports subject to the legislation. The new allocation for Australia represents only 47.1 per cent of United States imports for the year. As Australia's original share of 1970 imports was 49.7 per cent and an agreement with the United States authorities that any increased allocation would be at least in that proportion was very widely publicised, one might perhaps be underestimating Australian reaction by saying that it was one of great disappointment. Our Ministers have expressed this disappointment in the Press recently. 
The significant trade by Canadian importers in the transshipment of beef and mutton through Canada to the United Stales was cut off during July by regulatory procedure of the United States authorities. This caused problems in Canada where cold stores were at capacity. Australia was asked by Canada to suspend shipments of beef and mutton pending the settling down of the situation and discussion at government level. This caused great problems in the industry in Australia - to the abattoirs, to the operators and to the primary producers with their market. Unfortunately New South Wales was the State hardest hit because ships were loading in both Melbourne and Brisbane for Canadian ports. The regulations allowed them to load and take the meat away whereas New South Wales was not so fortunate in that it did not have shipping available and consequently the people who purchased the meat for export to Canada had to make other arrangements to dispose of it, but I am very happy to say that the position has been cleared and shipments to Canada are being resumed now on a normal basis. 
Japan is rapidly becoming a very important customer for Australian meat. We are supplying 78 per cent of Japan's beef market and 34 per cent of Japan's mutton market, representing 5 per cent of our total exports of beef and 19 per cent of our total exports of mutton. Our main problem with the export trade to Japan is the Japanese import quota system. Although some items are under strict quotas, these are being increased. I instance beef and veal. In 1966 total imports were 13.3 thousand metric tons and in 1969 they had increased to 18.6 thousand metric tons. All indications are that despite the restrictions, food demand will increase dramatically and Japanese agriculture will be incapable of meeting the demand. The Japanese expect that by 197S they will double the present income per head, and by 1980 Japan's income per head will exceed that of the United States of America. How much of this demand we will be able to supply from Australia depends as much on commercial considerations as on actions of governments. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! It being 11 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 26th August, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
Last night I was speaking about the ability of Japan with its improved economy to purchase more of our meat and I desire to caro'  on  from that point. Our meat industry must be prepared to produce, to pack and to market food to meet the exacting requirements of the sophisticated high income of the Japanese population and this requirement is vastly different from that of traditional markets. The accent on the Japanese market at the moment is towards higher quality. We must do all that we can to find new markets for our meat. The Australian Meat Board is very active in overseas and domestic sales promotion. It is interesting to note that the Board in  1969-70  expended  $210,400  on overseas promotion and  $158,100  in the domestic market, making a total of  $368,500.  The Commonwealth Government matched the overseas expenditure  SI  for  $1.  Over  $400,000  was expended on total overseas promotion by the Australian Meat Board. lt is also interesting to note at this point that despite the drought in Queensland and northern New South Wales stock figures in Australia have reached very high levels. As at  30  June  1970  Australia's sheep population was  181.3  million and the beef cattle population was  21.99  million. I understand that these figures are an all time record. Constructive moves are under way by primary producer organisations in Australia for a national lamb marketing scheme. The Government should take further action to assist in increasing our sales of lamb on both the domestic and export markets. The Australian meat industry must take great care to ensure that meat is not over-produced, particularly beef, and a situation created which would undermine the stability of this very wonderful industry. 
I remind the Minister for Primary Industry of his statements that he is looking into ways of expanding the work of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics as it relates to providing information on which farmers can base their decisions on production and marketing. I ask the Minister: What has been achieved in this regard? Can farmers expect the Government to take any further action to make available the greatest possible amount of information on market prospects, particularly in view of the very difficult circumstances in which farmers today find themselves? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has the New South Wales Government decided to extend coal loading facilities at the port of Newcastle to cope with the increased quantities of coking coal coming from the Hunter Valley for export? Will the Commonwealth Government be assisting financially in this important project? Will the Minister inform the House as to the exact position? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration. Has the Minister seen Press reports that Australia's migration drive this financial year has got off to a mixed start in August with fewer migrants overall but more professional workers? Do these reports reflect the present position? Do they suggest that we will receive fewer migrants than planned? What is the likely result in relation to the number of migrants from the United Kingdom, which has also been subject to Press comment? 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Did the Prime Minister recently announce the granting of financial assistance to the New South Wales Government to help with flood relief and flood damage restoration? Is it true that there has been great damage and devastation to property, stock and crops on the Hunter River and Namoi River systems? Can the Treasurer state what arrangements have been made to make available in New South Wales such financial assistance which is urgently required for rehabilitation purposes? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. To me as a member of a parliamentary delegation visiting overseas it appeared that Australia has excellent opportunities of increasing trade with southern European countries and also other nations, particularly with lamb and mutton, wheat, coal and minerals, especially iron ore. Does the Minister feel that Australia has sufficient trade commissioners in these areas to take care of the trade that does appear to be available on first investigations? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen the reports in today's Press that  Mr Aled  Davies, Senior Vice-President of the American Meat Institute, has stated that certain non-tariff barriers to Australian meat exports to the United States of America are to be implemented by amendments to that country's meat legislation? Can the Minister confirm that such legislation is proposed? If so, can anything be done by the Australian Government to assist in the continuation of meat exports to the United States? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration. During a recent visit to Turkey 1 was informed by the authorities, and I also noticed, that there was a demand for Turkish workers throughout Europe. Plane loads of Turkish workers were observed leaving for West Germany. As a result of this visit I ask the Minister: What is the current situation concerning the Turkish programme in Australia? How is the programme running? Have problems been encountered and how are Turkish workers regarded within industry? 
1 rise to support this Bill to grant financial assistance to New South Wales for the purpose of flood mitigation works in relation to certain rivers. I cannot agree with the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition because the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his 1969 policy speech stated that $100m would be provided over the next 6 years for water resources in Australia. This Bill comes within the ambit of the $100m which was referred to in the Government's policy speech. So there is no need whatsoever for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  because the $100rr provides for assistance in the field of water resources for the whole of Australia. 
The need for flood mitigation in New South Wales really became evident in 1955 when a major flood established the real need for flood mitigation schemes. The year 1963 was the turning point; the national importance of flood mitigation was recognised by the Commonwealth Government. The result was that the finance available for construction was almost doubled. The cost of works since 1963 has been shared on the basis of $3 each from the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government for each $1 allocated by the Hunter Valley Conservation Trust. I have 2 rivers in my electorate which are very seriously affected by flooding and consequently there is a need for great flood mitigation works. They are the Hunter River, about which the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has just spoken, and the Namoi River which is over the Dividing Range. There are 2 big dams on both of these rivers. They are the Glenbawn Dam on the Hunter River and the Keepit Dam on the Namoi. Even though these dams hold huge quantities of water, when 8 or 9 inches of rain fall in 3 or 4 days they cannot contribute greatly to alleviate the flooding that takes place on these rivers. With all respect to the honourable member for Newcastle, when this quantity of rain falls it is very difficult to do much about it anyway. Many of the towns along these rivers receive 21 and 22 inches of rainfall a year. In the recent floods they received as much as 13 or 14 inches within a few weeks. 
The Bill before the House ratifies the grant which was announced on 15th July 1970. Therefore here again the honourable member for Newcastle is a long way off line because those concerned with flood mitigation in the Hunter Valley had plenty of time to make their arrangements. Indeed, on behalf of the Government I interviewed the Maitland City Council and members of the Hunter Valley Conservation Trust at that time  to  tell them that the Government would make money available and that they could go ahead with their flood mitigation plans. The Bill provides for a grant, under the programme of up to $9m  for  assistance with flood mitigation works on II New South Wales coastal rivers. I support this Bill which will grant financial assistance to New South Wales for the purposes of flood mitigation in relation to these rivers. The allocations to the local government bodies that are in control of flood mitigation work, along with the New South Wales State Government and the Commonwealth Government, are as follows: Tweed River Shire Council, $462,000; the Richmond River County Council, $1,070,000; Bellinger River Shire Council, $810,000: Clarence River County Council, $4,270,000; Macleay River 
County Council, $2,047,000; Manning and Gloucester Shire Councils, $2,300,000; Hunter Valley Conservation Trust - which, of course, is by the far the biggest council and has the biggest river valley to look after- $6m; Hawkesbury, Windsor, Colo, Baulkham Hills, Penrith and Camden Councils, $2,060,000; Shoalhaven Shire Council and Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board, $780,000; and the Eurobodalla Shire Council, $627,000. The total amount proposed for flood mitigation works for those rivers is $20,426,000. 
The damage that occurred in the last floods would have been far greater if flood mitigation works had not been carried out by the councils to which I have referred. This refers particularly to the city of Maitland which is the biggest city in my electorate and which is only 18 miles from Newcastle on the Hunter River. I pay a great tribute to the Hunter Valley County Council for the great work that it has done around Maitland in providing the necessary levee banks and engineering works to control flood waters. If this work had not been carried out the recent flood would have been of far greater proportions than it was. The area to be covered under the Bill is approximately 1 million acres and it affects over 500,000 people. The cost of the works to be constructed over a period of 6 years will be shared by the Commonwealth and the State governments, each contributing $9m, with local government providing $4m. The Commonwealth Government's participation in these works was notified to the Government of New South Wales last year. As I have already mentioned, on 15th July satisfactory plans on flood mitigation works were received from the responsible Ministers. The great need for flood mitigation works on these rivers in New South Wales has been very well brought to the attention of people and governments by the recent disastrous floods. These' floods have shown how essential it is for more flood mitigation programmes to be undertaken by both the State and Federal Governments in cooperation with local government bodies such as shire councils, county councils and conservation trusts. I have already paid a tribute to the Hunter Valley Conservation Trust. I also pay a tribute to all of those other bodies which I have mentioned and which are carrying out such valuable work. 
As mentioned earlier, great damage has been caused by the recent floods particularly in the Hunter Valley where the Hunter Valley Conservation Trust has carried out extensive works such as the construction of levee banks, bank protection, drainage works and river training works whereby rivers are confined to channels and willows are planted. Despite these grand works great damage was done to the towns and the rural areas in the Hunter Valley. The Trust, which carries out the conservation or flood mitigation work in the area, has to look after the city of Newcastle, the city of Maitland, Singleton and district, Muswellbrook, Denman, Merriwa, Scone and Murrurundi. The damage that has occurred is estimated at many millions of dollars. Damage has been occasioned to property. There has been loss of sheep, cattle and crops such as pumpkins, potatoes, watermelons, rockmelons, millet, lucerne and maize, and there has been a loss of milk production. 
Many estimates have been made of the damage sustained at Maitland. It is estimated that half a million dollars worth of damage has been caused in this area - $300,000 on farms and $200,000 on roads. As I mentioned earlier, the amount of rain which fell in this area was a record. Although great works have been done by the governments concerned, it was impossible to stop some serious flooding. At the present time about 500,000 acres of farmland are under water in the Maitland area. At Singleton hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of damage has been done on farms, with loss of fences, stock and soils. Singleton is a fine town. There is a levee bank right round the town. In ordinary times, without this levee bank constructed by the flood mitigation authority there is no doubt that the town would have suffered major flooding. The honourable member for Newcastle did not mention this fact. This time there is no doubt that the town of Singleton would have suffered a major flood without the levee bank constructed in a proper engineering manner round the town by the Hunter Valley Conservation Trust. 
At Muswellbrook hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of damage has been done to water works, road works, property and fences. At Aberdeen damage has been done to properties and some town houses. 
At Scone, further up the Hunter Valley, damage has been caused by local flooding to property and business premises. At Merriwa still in the Hunter Valley - $157,000 worth of damage has been done to shire property in the form of shire roads and bridges, apart from property damage. These facts and figures indicate very clearly the need for flood mitigation works on the Hunter River. Over the Great Dividing Range at Murrurundi in the Quirindi district and in the Namoi River watershed about 10 or 11 inches of rain fell in a few days. The average rainfall is 21 inches. Over Sim worth of grain sorghum and maize was lost by the flooding that took place at this section of the Namoi River. It is estimated that $250,000 worth of damage was caused to roads and bridges. Further down the Namoi River at Wee Waa the whole cotton crop was lost. Possibly $15m worth of cotton was lost in the Namoi River area. 
It is clearly indicated that a Bill of this nature, with money being spent on properly engineered flood mitigation works, will be of tremendous value to the primary production of not only New South Wales but also Australia. Governments must consider urgently more flood mitigation works and make every effort to alleviate the disaster caused by floods such as the ones which we have recently witnessed. Under this Bill considerable works of a flood mitigation nature will be carried out. This will increase the protection of towns and preserve the agricultural production of crops and stock. It is essential that right throughout Australia more works be carried out and more thought given to flood mitigation. The $100m mentioned in the Government's policy speech provides for this. It is up to the States to bring forward schemes to the Commonwealth Government. I feel sure that the Government and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  will give every consideration to the establishment of such works to provide for more production and to prevent damage to properties, loss of stock and loss of property in the various towns. 
There is nothing worse than living in a town which has been ravaged by floods. The people lose the furniture in their homes and their personal property. So they drift away to the cities. Flood mitigation works are one way in which we can help maintain the population in our country towns and keep them thriving, as we see them in the Hunter Valley today. There is no doubt that the people who live there are very courageous. They have had 2 or 3 major floods in the Hunter Valley in the last 15 years but they have gone on producing. The money being spent and the work being done on flood mitigation is giving them more protection all the time. I think we will probably see the time when they will be free from flooding in the area even though they may receive great quantities of rain within a short time. The engineering department of the Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission in New South Wales and the Public Works Department have done great work in the Hunter Valley and in every valley on the north coast of New South Wales. With their valuable knowledge they are making a great contribution towards easing the flooding, the disaster and the losses that have taken place in past years. 
The Bill has many good features. I am not in favour of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson because it is already catered for in the policy enunciated by the Government. I have much pleasure, on behalf of the Australian Country Party, in supporting the measure. I know that it will be passed by this House tonight. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it true that coal loading facilities at the port of Newcastle are not adequate for the large quantities of coal available for export from the Hunter Valley? Has the New South Wales Government been responsible for the establishment of the existing facilities? Is it the intention of the New South Wales Government to build further coal loading facilities in the port of Newcastle or at an adjacent locality, and has any approach been made to the Federal Government for financial assistance for this project? Can the Minister inform the House as to the present situation? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether a newspaper article some days ago stated that grain sorghum production in New South Wales would be a record 12 million bushels? ls this figure far short of the total expected crop in New South Wales? What will the estimated total production figure be for Australia and have export markets been obtained for this very valuable crop? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the United States Department of Agriculture agreed to the inspection of Australian abattoirs for mutton export licences by Department of Primary Industry inspectors? Have many of our works been relicensed for the purpose of exporting mutton to the United States? What is the percentage of works whose licences have been cancelled and have yet to be re-inspected? Can the Minister inform the House of the present position in this matter? 
1 rise to oppose most bitterly the motion that has been moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  I would like to preface my remarks by referring to some of the comments made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition when he spoke in the debate this afternoon. He said that when you,  Sir, took  over this high office of  Speaker  of the House of Representatives you promised to uphold it with dignity and tolerance on all occasions. From my observation in this House you,  Sir, have  certainly done this on every occasion. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has accused you of blatant manipulation of this House to the advantage of the Government. What utter nonsense that statement is. How many times have we seen members of the Opposition going up to the Chair and seeking advice from you on certain matters, which advice you have freely given to them? The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spoke about the number of times during your occupation of the chair that members of this House have been named. The total over 5 years is 15. Here again from my observation in this House - and some unruly scenes have been witnessed here - I would say that15 over 5 years is certainly not a large number of members to be named by any  Speaker. 
I agree with the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  when he said that you are held in high regard throughout Australia and overseas. This was very much in evidence early this year when, with colleagues from the House of Representatives, it was my good fortune to represent Australia as part of a delegation to other countries. We learned at first hand the esteem and regard in which you,  Sir, are  held by people overseas. It was good to see, and it is good that I am able to get up in this House this afternoon and tell honourable members of this fact. It is good that an Australian is able to go overseas as part of a deputation led by a man of such stature and one who is held in such high regard. It is a most serious matter to move a motion such as this in view of the happenings in this House during question time yesterday, particularly when one studies the Hansard report of the events leading to the naming of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I feel sure that if honourable members took the trouble to do this they would find that the  Speaker  of this House was indeed more than tolerant in the situation which developed when the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was answering a question asked by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  concerning wheat trade, defence policy and diplomatic relations with Peking China. 
In his reply the Prime Minister stated that under strong emotional influence the late  Dr H.  V. Evatt was induced to write to the Foreign Minister of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The honourable member for Reid took exception to this statement and rose to take a point of order. You,  Mr Speaker,  ruled that there was no substance in the point of order and that no reflection was cast on the late  Dr H.  V. Evatt. During the continuation of the reply to the Prime Minister the honourable member for Reid interjected 4 times and I feel that you,  Mr Speaker,  showed considerable latitude and restraint in carrying out the duties of your important office. On the third occasion you warned the honourable member for Reid who immediately replied: 
He can please himself what he does. 
This represented the fourth interjection. A crossfire then took place between the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  and you,  Mr Speaker,  intervened and said: 
Order! The House will come to order. 
On this demand by you the honourable member for Reid exclaimed: 
Is your name Popov the clown? 
In his speech the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred to this remark as being humourous and in good fun. I thought it was dreadful and in bad taste to make a statement of that nature to the Chair. After thisinterpection,  Mr Speaker,  you named the honourable member and on a subsequent vote of the House he was suspended from the service of the House. There can be no doubt in the mind of any fairminded member that the  Speaker  was most tolerant and patient with the continual interjections of the honourable member and it is possible that action taken sooner could have been regarded as fair in the circumstances. The final remark, 'Is your name Popov the clown?' by the honourable member for Reid deserved to be dealt with in the manner adopted by the  Speaker.  From my observation and experience the  Speaker  of this House is as fair minded and impartial as it is possible for a  Speaker  to be.  His  duty is to keep the House in order and there is no doubt that he exercised great restraint in that situation and was as lenient and patient as any  Speaker  of the House of Representatives could ever hope to be. It appears to me that the honourable member for Reid desired a day off from duties in the chamber. In view of these facts it is ridiculous for the Opposition to move a motion to the effect that the  Speaker  no longer has the confidence of this House. He has conducted himself in this high office with dignity, tolerance and ability. This motion will be voted out, as it should be. We oppose it in the strongest possible manner. 
1 wish to ask the Minister for Customs and Excise a question concerning the wine industry, which is a vital industry in my electorate. Are overseas wine and brandy being dumped in Australia? Did the Australian Wine Board in June 1970 seek anti-dumping action against imports of brandy from France? Have members of the wine industry expressed concern about the dumping of overseas wine on the Australian market? 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Does the Commonwealth make funds available to New South Wales for relief of drought and other natural disasters? If so, how much is New South Wales required to provide before Commonwealth funds are distributed? Who administers the relief expenditure involved? What amount of Commonwealth funds has been provided to New South Wales so far during this financial year? 
I desire to confine my remarks in this debate to the Bill for an Act to grant financial assistance to the States for buildings and equipment for use in technical training. This Bill provides for capital grants to the States for the construction and provision of equipment for technical training purposes. It is pleasing to note that the Bill covers assistance not only to technical colleges and trade schools but also to agricultural colleges and rural training institutions. Funds are to be allocated to the States on a proportion related to State population, and I  think  that this is a very fair basis for the allocation of such funds. 
The Bill provides for the expenditure of $36m over a period of 3 years, which is an increase of $6m over the allocation for the previous 3 years, under the same conditions. So it is good to see the Government increasing the amount of money to be made available in this field, which is very vital. This means that an increased amount of $2m per year for the next 3 years will be available to the States to enable them to provide facilities in the technical field. The limit of the grants to the various States is set out clearly in the Schedule to the Bill. We find that New South Wales is to receive $13,320,000, Victoria $10,030,000, Queensland $5,250,000, South Australia $3,390,000, Western Australia $2,870,000 and Tasmania $1,140,000. 
We are living in a technical era and assistance in this field of education is essential in the development of both secondary and primary industries. People with technical knowhow and qualifications are and will be urgently needed in Australia's future development. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn)  has made it clear in his second reading speech  that the Commonwealth regards these grants to the States as being supplementary to the State's own efforts in providing adequate technical training facilities. 1 think that this is a very wise precaution because the States have their own funds which they can use in this field, and they can be assisted by these grants from the Commonwealth. 
There is no doubt that tremendous demands are being made by technical colleges for the provision of modern and uptodate equipment, and this demand will grow as Australia develops in industry, mining and agriculture. In all these fields great advances are being made productionwise and up-to-date training of fully qualified personnel is needed to keep up with modern techniques and methods. This Bill will help the States further to provide these requirements. It is noted, on examination of the information available, that the States have already submitted tentative programmes for use of the grants and that it is expected that these programmes will be firmed prior to this legislation being passed and becoming effective. 
The Minister in his second reading speech has made it clear that the New South Wales Government proposes to apply Commonwealth funds for the provision of facilities in the metropolitan areas of Strathfield, Granville, Brookvale, North Sydney and Liverpool and in the country areas of Wollongong and Coffs Harbour. However, New South Wales apparently has decided to seek the authority of the Commonwealth and the Minister to use funds from this source for an extension and expansion programme for the Tocal Agricultural College, which is situated in the Paterson electorate between the city of Maitland and the township of Paterson. This programme for the College has been well and truly publicised in the country Press and the metropolitan Press by the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture. I had the pleasure only last weekend of visiting this College, which consists of 5,000 acres of excellent farming and grazing land. It was originally controlled by the C. B. Alexander Trust, and the New South Wales Government took it over early last year with a promise to the Trust that it would implement a development programme as soon as possible. 
When the C. B. Alexander Trust controlled this College it found that owing to increased costs and associated problems it could not carry on efficiently and objectively. That is the reason why it approached the New South Wales Government. Further, when the C. B. Alexander Trust controlled the College it did not issue any diplomas or degrees, which of course was a disadvantage to the students attending the College. The major projects in the expansion programme are an agricultural engineering centre, a lecture hall with tutorial rooms, accommodation for students - male and female - a science laboratory and a library with audio-visual facilities. Also funds will be spent on essential services, such as roads and electrical facilities, and on buildings for the dairy and beef cattle sections and other works and services. I commend the New South Wales Government for using funds on this project. I have no doubt that the New South Wales Government will be applying for assistance for this College in the programme it submits to the Commonwealth Government and the Minister. I believe that the improvements to the College will be of great benefit to not only the Paterson electorate and the city of Maitland, but also to the nation as a whole. 
A very important part of the Bill provides for residential accommodation. The fact that one State in its programme under this Commonwealth grants Bill intends to spend $500,000 on providing such accommodation indicates that there is a need for accommodation for students and apprentices attending technical colleges. There is no doubt that this provision in the Bill will be extremely important to many States which have colleges situated in country areas, where students have to travel long distances in order to attend lectures and tuition. This has been my experience in the various country areas of New South Wales in which I have been active during my public life. This provision will be appreciated by the States as I know only too well that accommodation for technical college students has been a great problem for many years. 
In other States of Australia major projects of a technical nature have been nominated to the Commonwealth and to  the Minister for funds to be provided under this Act. The need for financial assistance for the provision of additional technical training facilities is very much in evidence by the States' submitting early programmes in order to participate in the funds made available under this Act. With the technical era, with the tremendous advances in the various industries and in the fields that 1 have mentioned, it is very important that young Australians receive the best technical education that can possibly be given to them. I feel that under this Bill provision will be made along these lines and considerable benefit will accrue to the various States of Australia in this field. This Bill will be of great benefit to the nation. As one honourable member has said, these are straight out grants. They do not have to matched $1 for $1 by the States and this will be of great benefit to the educational facilities in the States in the funds they have available for the technical education field. I support the Bill and commend it to the House. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Operators in auction sales of cattle yesterday are reported to have reduced stock values by 10 per cent to compensate for the 10 per cent surcharge imposed by the United States of America on imports. Are not such beef imports from Australia exempt from this surcharge? Will the Minister agree that this discounting by stock operators is entirely unjustified? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for National Development. I ask: What effect will the present industrial situation in the coal industry, particularly in New South Wales, have on our exports? Has this situation seriously disrupted shipping arrangements? Could considerable confidence and valuable export  trade be lost if this policy were to continue? Are exporters and coal interests greatly concerned about this position? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of 17 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riot control' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament lake note of the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that honourable members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to  the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts who is also MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities. 
Has tourism developed into a major Australian industry? Do the various State governments divide the States into regions which are to be the responsibility of regional tourist associations? Are these regional associations assisted by the States financially, and are they finding it difficult to promote tourist activities? Will the Government consider further assisting the States financially to help these regional associations further develop this fine industry? 
I rise to support the Budget presented by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  It provides for estimated receipts of $8,654m and expenditure of $8,833m. These figures compared with the previous Budget show increases of $624m and $728m respectively. The size of the Australian Budget has certainly increased over the years. It is interesting to note that in 1939 the Budget presented by the government of the day provided for an expenditure of approximately $200m. These figures indicate the great growth in the financial requirements of this country and in the development of the economy. Naturally, any Budget brought down by a government is criticised by the Opposition, but I feel that under the inflationary pressures prevailing this Budget has met the situation presently existing in the economy. It has been devised after consultation with representatives of secondary industry, primary industry, manufacturers and the trade union movement. Priorities have been carefully examined and essential expenditure on education, defence, social services and payments to the States has been considerably increased over expenditure in the previous financial year. 
An expenditure of $2,095m has been provided in the field of social services. 
This figure is $268m more than last year. The standard rate of pension payable to single people and widows with children is to be increased by $1.25 to $17.25 a week. The married rate pension will be increased by $1 a week to give a married couple who are both in receipt of the pension a combined maximum pension of $30.50 a week. Other allowances have been made in the pension field and in the important field of repatriation benefits. These include an increase of $3.50 a week to totally and permanently incapacitated war pensioners. I congratulate the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  on being able to obtain Cabinet's approval for these substantial increases because I feel that there is no more worthy a group than those servicemen and women who have been repatriated. These are practical examples of the Government's desire to help the lot of the pensioners and repatriated servicemen and women. 
The Government has wisely given defence an important priority in the Budget. A vote of $ 1,252.4m has been allocated to this Department. This represents an increase of $117m or 10.3 per cent more than the figure allocated in last year's Budget. It is interesting to note that in this increased budgetary amount $66m has been taken up in increased wages. It is good to see the Government expending more money on defence measures - in men, materials and equipment - because Australia is a very fine country and one that would be a rich prize for any invader. Therefore I feel sure that honourable members will agree with the increased vote in defence expenditure. 
The rural sector of Australia is experiencing a very difficult period financially with high production costs and low prices being received for the commodities produced, to say nothing of the continual droughts and floods that have been experienced by primary producers over the last 5 years. The most affected rural industry is, of course, the wool industry and the farmers and graziers who are engaged solely in this field. These primary producers are in real trouble. Over the years, Australia has relied heavily on the export income earned from wool. Even taking into account the very depressed prices that have been obtained for wool, it has still been a very important commodity. In the financial year 1969-70,  $800m was earned from the export of our wool. This represented 20 per cent of our total export earnings of approximately $4,000m. In the financial year 1970-71 the sale of wool overseas amounted to $594m. still a very substantial amount but considerably less than in the previous year. 
No government can sit idly by and allow such a valuable industry to die. Apart from the loss of export income earned by the industry, this drop in sales has had a serious financial effect on primary producers and has caused loss of farm employment with a serious consequent effect on the country towns and the business people who live there and service these areas. These country towns have been built up over a number of years with men specialised in the agricultural and allied industries. Now, with the recession in the surrounding countryside, these men are going off to Sydney and other cities and the country towns are becoming denuded of their very valuable expertise. It will be very difficult to get such men back into the country areas. It is very sad to see these great wool towns throughout Australia deteriorating and dying in the way they are at the present time. So the Government in its investigation and examination of this industry has, in our opinion, very wisely decided to provide a deficiency payment scheme to ensure a price of 36c per lb for greasy wool. This will help bring stability back to the industry, and although short of the industry recommendation of 40c per lb will restore confidence and financial stability to the industry. Most wool men are situated in areas where they cannot diversify and this makes it all the more necessary for assistance to be given to them. Farmers who can diversify are well advised to do so as good markets exist for vegetable oil seed, coarse grain and lamb, mutton, beef and pig meats. 
It is, of course, of great concern to country people to see postal and telephone charges increase. This is to be deplored and as country people carry on business through extensive telephone calls and postal arrangements this increase is possibly having a greater effect in the country that in any other part of Australia. I recommend that the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  have another look at these postal charges with a view to making some revision. One can, of course, appreciate the cost increases in these fields, particularly in the wages sector, but nevertheless a revision of post and telephone charges is requested, especially in country areas. 
Decentralisation was not mentioned in the Budget. We in this House often mention decentralisation but that is about as far as it ever goes. I know that when this matter is brought forward we are informed that it is one for- the State Governments. Some State Governments are doing a splendid job in the decentralisation field but it is felt that in this great country if we are to get anywhere with this subject we must provide funds from the Federal Government to promote industries, transport and services across Australia. We do not want all our people living in the seaboard cities. We require them spread out over our continent for strategic purposes because if ever we were attacked it would be more difficult for a foe if our population were spread right over the surface of the country instead of having them in the seaboard States where they would be most vulnerable to any attack. One way that I feel we can help from a federal point of view with decentralisation is the establishment of Federal Government office blocks in our provincial cities and country towns. I have been pressing for the establishment of a Federal Government office block in the city of Maitland in my electorate where there is a telephone manager with a hig staff, a postal manager with a big staff, an office of the Department of Social Services and an office of the Department of Labour and National Service as well as offices of other Federal departments. The establishment of such an office block in that city is one way of bringing about effective decentralisation. 
Local Government is another field which urgently requires financial assistance and which has been ignored in the Budget. It is true that local government will benefit by $6m this year and $8m in a full year through the Commonwealth meeting the cost of exempting the non business activities of such authorities from payroll tax as from the date of transfer. Local government requires much more financial assistance if it is to survive and here again we hear only words instead of seeing action. 
Local government is required to provide modern and up to date facilities wilh an outmoded method of finance. I commend this important matter to the Treasurer and the Cabinet for consideration. 
It is noted that the Government is keeping under close review the situation in the wine industry and, acting on the advice of the interdepartmental committee, has decided not to alter the existing excise on wine. My electorate is one where great development has been and is taking place in this important industry. We have Hungerford Hill Vineyards Pty Ltd at Pokolbin, Murray Tyrrell's McQuiggans at Dalwood, Branxton, Penfolds at Wybong, Muswellbrook, Hamilton Wines at Sandy Hollow and a host of other vineyards throughout the Hunter Valley. These people tell me that the excise imposed on wine in the last Budget has seriously affected sales. I ask the Government to keep this position under review. 
Whilst we appreciate the importance of trade with Japan and the necessity to encourage exports from the developing countries of South East Asia such as Taiwan, Hong Kong and Thailand, it is necessary to protect adequately our own secondary industries, particularly those in rural areas. Much of the trade with these countries is in the textile field and many of our decentralised industries are engaged in producing similar yarns and fabrics to those which we import from Asian countries. Speaking about the importance of decentralised textile industries I have in my electorate at Rutherford the splendid firm of Bradmill Industries Ltd, which has about 1,300 employees, and not far away at Raymond Terrace is the textile mill of Courtaulds (Aust) Ltd. I recently visited the Bradmill factory again and from observations and discussions it is obvious that imports of textiles from Asian countries are seriously slowing down production, threatening employment and reducing profitability in this industry. 1 want to stress to the Government with all sincerity and with all the knowledge that I possess that it must not fail in its duty and responsibility to protect adequately at the appropriate time these great Australian industries. I respectfully suggest that the time is now. The traditional use of tariffs to protect these industries is becoming more and more ineffective and I feel we must follow the method used by many large and highly industrialised countries and use quantitative restrictions or voluntary restraint arrangements. I commend and support the Budget. 
I ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry: Have Australian meat interests considerable quantities of beef on the water to the United States of America? Is there a threatened longshoremen's strike in that country? Will this seriously affect our sales to the United States, and will the meat at present on board ship be unloaded at its destination? 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry give some indication of the estimated sales of butter on the home and export markets for the 1971-72 financial year? What effect will margarine sales have on sales of butter to the countries in the European Economic Community? What does the Minister believe will be the position in future years? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27 per cent (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 471 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, the humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
Whereas the Commonwealth has a clear mandate to act for the advancement of the Aboriginal people - And whereas the Parliament of Queensland refuses to repeal the clauses of The Aborigines' and Torres Strait Islanders' Affairs Act of 1965 which discriminate against the said Aboriginal people, 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House take appropriate steps to procure the repeal of. or to nullify the effect of, the said Act. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister for National Development. Are we producing at the present time in Australia 52 per cent of our petroleum requirements? Will our present oil producing fields be exhausted in approximately 10 years time? Is it imperative that oil exploration be speeded up? Will the Minister advise the House as to intended programmes by oil exploration interests? 
I rise to support the Bill before the House. I feel sure that all Government supporters are in agreement with an increase in pensions but the main problem is just how much can be provided and from what source it will be derived. As there are 1,000,000 pensioners in this country, an increase of $1 a week means an increase in budgetary expenditure of $60m. We have been criticised by the Opposition for a supposed lack of financial support for social services. An examination of the exact position most certainly does not reveal this to be so. In fact, expenditure in the Budget on social welfare and repatriation is the largest single item of Commonwealth expenditure. As a matter of fact it is the largest amount provided for social welfare in the history of the Commonwealth. The provision of social services, repatriation benefits, health services, housing and other welfare activities will require an expenditure of $2,095m. This is almost $268m more than last year and $78m of this increased amount represents current improvements in social welfare. 
Pensioners in the main are people who have helped develop this country, paid their taxes, reared their families and in their years of retirement, are entitled to social services pensions to provide them for their needs and requirements. I believe - and I genuinely say this - that this Government has, after careful investigation and consideration, granted increases to pensioners after having listed government priorities in order of national importance, having had due regard to other important items of government such as education, defence, health, housing and matters concerning the development of Australia. Every year this Government has increased payments to pensioners. This fact has been noted and appreciated by these people. 
I meet many pensioners in my travels throughout my. huge electorate. In most instances they are happy people. Many pensioners also appreciate the many fringe benefits which are available to them such as rebates on municipal rates, concessions on rail fares, television, radio and many others and also the services provided by the Meals on Wheels organisation. These benefits help pensioners enjoy their retirement. 
I know that there has been a certain amount of repetition in the debate on this Bill. However, I feel that it is good that we should have a look at the provisions relating to the increases provided under the 
Bill. I intend to go through the provisions one by one because I believe that if any repetition arises it relates to the increases that have been allocated to the various pensioners. 
Firstly, the standard rate pension will be increased by Si. 25 per week for those on full pension. Some part-pensioners will receive part of this increase and the basic new rate will be $17.25 per week. Secondly, the married rate of pension - applicable also to B Class widows - will be increased by $1 per week for those on full pension. Some part-pensioners will receive part of this increase. The basic new rate will be $15.25 per week, or $30.50 per week for a married couple. Thirdly, the wife's allowance - and this includes allowances payable for unemployment and sickness - will increase by $1 per week. Fourthly, the adult rate for long-term sickness benefit will increase by $1.25 per week, and the junior rate by 75c per week. Fifthly, the rate of child endowment for the third and each subsequent child under 16 years of age in a family is to be increased by 50c per week. Sixthly, the rate of child endowment for each child under 16 years of age in an approved institution is to be increased by 50c per week. Finally, children's allowances for age, invalid and widow pensioners and for unemployment and sickness beneficiaries will increase by $2 per week for the first child and by $1 per week for each other child. This will bring the allowance to a uniform $4.50 per week for all these children. Those are the increased rates that are applicable under this Bill. 
Pension and allied increases will benefit over 1 million pensioners at a cost of $66m. It is interesting to have a look at the number of pensioners in their various classifications and the amount that they will be receiving under this Bill. There are 683,000 age pensioners who will receive $40,300,000; 119,000 invalid pensioners who will receive $7,300,000; 76,000 widow pensioners who will receive $4,400,000; 5,000 long term sickness pensioners who will receive $300,000; 31,000 in the classification of wives of pensioners and beneficiaries who will receive $1,700,000; and 155,000 children of pensioners and beneficiaries who will receive $12m. This means that  a  total of 1,069,000 pensioners will receive $66m. The increase in child endowment will cost about $26,500,000 and will benefit 1,020,000 children in about 610,000 families. 
The total annual cost of the benefits included in the Bill is about $92m. I was impressed with the matter brought forward by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Reid),  who spoke about the need for members of a family to look after and care for aged parents. I believe that this is a matter which requires examination by the Minister for Social Services and by the Government. No provision has been made in the Budget for an allowance to such people. I believe that if an allowance was made  a  pressing social problem could be solved. In many cases aged parents are cared for in nursing homes away from their families. If an allowance were given, these people could be looked after in their own home under normal family conditions and in  a  more satisfactory and happy atmosphere. If such an allowance were contained in the Budget it is felt that this step would be not only humane and christian but it would relieve the congestion in, and the financial problems of, hospitals and nursing homesThis is a proposition and should receive attention. I believe that it would be well, received by the people and families of this country. As the honourable member for Holt said, in many instances eastern countries can show us family care and respect for aged people which many of us would benefit by copying. 
Between budgets, pension rates have risen over twice as fast as prices. This is a fact. It means that pensions as provided in this Budget will have an increasing purchasing power. If, in this Budget, the Minister had adjusted pensions strictly in accordance with prices, the .standard rate of pension would be only $16.34 per week and the married rate of pension would be $14-49 per week. Ever since 1949, when Labor lost office, the trend has been to increase pension rates faster than prices so that the real value of pensions continues to rise. I have an interesting table which shows the actual rate of pensions in 1949, the value of the 1949 rate at 1971 prices and the actual rate in 1971. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate this table in Hansard. 

<graphic href="073131197109095_51_2.jpg"></graphic>

These increases will help to ease the financial burden faced by many families. 
There are many other benefits and concessions provided by the Government that assist parents in maintaining children. The cost of revenue to the Government through providing concessional deductions for children in respect of education exceeds $250m a year. Through its various scholarship schemes the Commonwealth Government spends at least $40m a year. Assistance is given to families through the National Health Act. Health insurance rates for a family with children - however many children - are pegged at the rate applicable for a married couple without children. Special assistance is also provided for handicapped children and for children of pensioners. All these matters indicate the attitude of a responsible Government, which is to provide benefits in respect of children in a way which will help in making them better citizens of tomorrow. It is all very well for an opposition to criticise a government in regard to social benefits, but when one looks at the Government's record I think one can say that the record stands up extremely well. I should like to commend the Minister on the drafting of the Bill and his sincerity and understanding in formulating the largest financial Social Services Bill in the history of the Commonwealth. I support the Bill. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Have quantities of wheat been stolen from Grain Elevators Board silos in New South Wales? If so, is this wheat being sold privately on the black market? Has concern been expressed in the industry? What steps are being taken to eliminate this practice? 
I direct my question to the Minister for National Development who is representing the Minister for Civil Aviation in this chamber. I ask: Under present Department of Civil Aviation regulations, is it illegal for owners of private light aircraft to accept payment for flights? Have prosecutions taken place over the years for infringements of this law? Is it necessary to alter the regulations to modernise an unjust situation? Can the Minister inform the House when legislation will be brought down to amend the law in this regard? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether the Government or the wool selling organisations have made contact with the People's Republic of China concerning sales of Australian wool? Is there a possibility of trade in this commodity? Can the Minister inform the House of future prospects in this field? 
I ask the Minister for National Development: Have Japanese purchases of coking coal decreased considerably in the last 3 months? Will this have a serious effect on the operation of our coalmines and the coalmining industry? Can the Minister advise on the current situation? 
The estimates for the Department of Primary Industry provide for an expenditure of $78,646,00fr for this year compared with 103,797,219 for 1970-71. When one examines these figures we find that there is a considerable reduction which requires some investigation. We find that 2 large items of expenditure are responsible for this reduction. These items are the emergency assistance to wool growers in an amount of $30m for the last financial year compared with the provision of $150,000 this year. The other item of a large nature is the payment to industries in respect of reduced returns in Australian currency arising from the devaluation of sterling and other currencies. Last year it was $21m and this year it is down to $9,700,000. The Department of Primary Industry has certainly increased in importance over the years and at the present time it faces problems of immense importance to the nation. The greatest problem, of course, is that of our wool industry which over the years has been the mainstay of Australia's economy. Even for the period ending 30th June 1971 it was worth $567m in export income and, as has been mentioned in this chamber by me on several occasions, no government can afford to let an industry of this magnitude die. The Government scheme to guarantee a price of 36c a pound for greasy wool will certainly assist the wool growers and the country areas of this great Commonwealth. 
We should make every effort to open new markets for wool. In this House last week I asked the Minister for Primary Industry a question concerning the investigation of sales of wool to the People's Republic of China. This is a very important market for this commodity and every opportunity should be taken by our exporters and by the Government to exploit it. The People's Republic of China, with 750 million people, could provide a market for 1 million bales of wool if that market could be broken into. I have no doubt that the Minister for Primary Industry, as promised in this House, will certainly take this matter up with the Australian Wool Commission. We should make every endeavour to develop our trade in this field. 
The primary industries are still the backbone of this country and the Minister and the Government are making provision for research into wheat, tobacco, barley, wine, wool and meat, as well as providing agricultural extension services, and dealing with many other matters of great importance to primary industries. We know the valuable work done by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. The Government has provided bounties on butter and cheese under the Dairy Industry Act. The downturn in farm income has had one beneficial effect as far as the farmers are concerned. Farmers generally, or at least those farmers who can diversify, have been forced into diversification. Unfortunately there are many farmers in the western sector of New South Wales and in other parts of Australia who cannot diversify, but those who can do so have diversified and we find that new avenues of agriculture, for instance, the growing of course grains, have been opened up. Farmers have taken to growing sunflower, safflower, linseed and soya beans. An excellent market exists for these products in Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines and I have no doubt that our Trade Commissioners will be making every effort to increase this trade with these countries. 
The wheat situation has improved considerably and the Australian Wheat Board is to be congratulated on its successful sales campaign. Record sales of 375 million bushels have been made this year and it appears that the carry-over will be approximately 150 million bushels. This is a most satisfactory position and a good crop will be of great benefit to Australia. Despite pessimism in the industry, the Government has allocated funds for research in this field. This is a very wise course to adopt because it is a highly important industry to this country and to our export income. The amount of $52,000 provided for wine research will help this growing industry but with the tremendous development that is taking place, particularly in the Hunter Valley in my electorate, there could be a danger of over-production. In Australia 300,000 tons of wine grapes, or over 40 million gallons of wine, are produced annually. New South Wales, which ranks a poor second to South Australia as a wine producing State, produces 53,000 tons of grapes annually from 13,000 acres. The Hunter Valley at present produces only 2,500 tons of grapes annually, which is 4 per cent of the New South Wales production and .6 per cent of Australian production. Although responsible for only a small proportion of the total production, the Hunter Valley holds an important place in the Australian wine industry because some wines produced there are among the finest and most distinctive in Australia. 
Since 1965 there has been a wine boom and wine consumption has increased because of changing tastes. Resulting from this, large investments have been made, particularly in the Hunter Valley, to take advantage of the increase in demand. Most of this investment and expansion of the area under grapes has been undertaken by wineries and large companies. In 1963 the area under wine grapes stood at 1,232 acres. By 1967, after the start of the boom, it had reached 2,300 acres. This increased to 3,450 acres in 1969. In 1970, 3,000 additional acres were planted and it is predicted that this rate of expansion will continue for several years. By 1975 the total acreage could be in excess of 12,000 acres. This compares with 7,500 acres in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area and 17,000 acres at present in the Barossa Valley in South Australia. With wine production in 1980 expected to be ten times what it is now questions arise about the future of the wine industry in the Hunter Valley and I would advise caution because of the possibility of over-production in this industry throughout Australia. 
One primary industry with bright prospects is the meat industry. We have maintained a splendid level of meat exports. There is every indication that we will continue to do so. I have been rather alarmed to hear over the last 2 or 3 days of the possibility of a threat to this great industry from synthetics. I understand there has been a small importation of synthetic meats into this country and that there is an attempt to manufacture synthetic meat locally. I hope that we will watch with great care the developments in this field which could possibly destroy one of the finest industries we have in Australia. Exports of meat have been extremely good. Our main market for beef, of course, has been the United States of 
America, closely followed by the United Kingdom, Japan, Russia and Canada. I know that the meat industry in this country is doing all it can to develop these markets at the present time. The American market is the most important one and here we are given quotas each year. We have to see that we fill these quotas. If we do not fill these quotas to the United States of America we could be jeopardising further exports to this market which is a most lucrative one and of great value to Australia. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Are we clearing our present Stocks of wheat at a most successful rate? Will the present acreages sown to wheat be  down  this year? Are other wheat producing countries expecting large crops, and are considerable stocks held by these countries? What is the present outlook for the sale of Australian wheat on world markets? 
I rise to support the Budget estimates for the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. The establishment of the Ministry for the Environment really had its beginning during the last Senate election campaign when the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  made the Government's intentions plainly known during that campaign. He said: 
We therefore have taken the decision to set up a Commonwealth Office of the Environment under the control of the Prime Minister's Department. 
This office will be responsible for advising the Commonwealth and recommending to us action that should be taken to prevent or reduce pollution arising out of the activities of any Commonwealth Department or Authority. 
We shall also approach the States to seek the formation of a National Advisory Council to advise the Commonwealth, and the States, on action to be taken in areas where co-ordination can properly be achieved. 
We know that the ministry was established and commenced operations in June of this year. In my view, this ministry is a very important one. It will develop in importance as the years go by. My colleagues and I are very delighted that this ministry has been created. 
Every inhabitant of Australia can perceive today the disturbing signs of pollution and defacement of our environment and the serious threats which endanger it. The environment is being impaired as a result of the uncontrolled and indiscriminate use of space and irrational exploita tion of resources. In many places the soil is being eroded. The water is unfit for many of its uses. The air is dangerously polluted. Landscapes are spoilt while fauna and flora are in decline. Waste products of all kinds are building up at an increasing rate and biological equilibria are destroyed. 
It is essential firstly, that rational use and management of the environment must have high priority in national government policy and must be adequately financed. Clear ministerial responsibility must be established for the planning and use of land and other natural resources and the conservation of nature. Secondly, policies should be strengthened or introduced to control pollution of air, water and soil, and Australia-wide agreed standards for those purposes should be devised as soon as possible. Thirdly, legislation and regulations introduced to safeguard the environment and its quality should be harmonised to the extent necessary at the Australian level. 
Australians are only just beginning to observe the effects of pollution, and the Federal Government and the State governments are just beginning to give prominence to the subject by creating active ministries to control the environment and to eliminate the problems associated with air, water and soil pollution. I am pleased to see that most States have set up ministries of the environment and that they are co-operating with the Federal Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson).  This will be to the benefit of all concerned, particularly the nation. Watching television tonight, I was pleased to note that the New South Wales Government has set up at Lidcombe an environmental control office with a staff of 36. This is a step in the right direction. I have no doubt that other States will be taking steps along these lines. 
For some years past overseas countries have been active with preventive measures against pollution. When I was overseas this year with a Commonwealth parliamentary delegation I had the pleasure, along with colleagues, of visiting the Council of Europe at Strasbourg. We were able to see at first hand the prominence that European countries give to this very important subject of the environment. At its previous meeting the Council had spent 4 days discussing ways and means of assisting to improve the environment and in overcoming the pollution problem. When we arrived in England our party was taken by the parliamentarians of that nation to the environment station a few miles out of London. We saw the great anti-pollution station that has been established there. We were able to witness at first hand the methods which were being adopted to overcome sewerage pollution, air pollution, water pollution and pollution caused by disposal of waste. We saw fish in tanks of polluted water and noted at what stage of pollution the fish were affected. The man in charge of the station told us that research had progressed to such an extent that fish were coming back into the Thames because the disposal of effluent into that famous river had been prevented. At this pollution station we also saw the latest methods being used in Great Britain for the breaking up of oil slicks. The Government has co-operated with the oil companies, as we in this country will have to do, and they have devised ways and means of breaking up oil slicks on the sea. This matter is of great interest to this country because from time to time various tankers discharge oil along our coastline. 
I was interested to see that the first meeting of State Ministers for the enviroment and the Federal Minister, who is at the table, was held in Canberra on 17th September. I note that they rejected the concept of completely uniform Australiawide laws on pollution. They decided only that there is a continuing need to combat pollution and that some uniformity of approach was desirable. The Ministers agreed to meet again, probably in Perth in November, for further discussions. They exchanged information on existing legislation and gave their views on environmental problems. There was no discussion on the report of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution or on the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, or consideration of the suggestion of the Water Pollution Committee that a national water committee be established as a matter of urgency. It is interesting to note that there is co-operation between the Federal Government and the State governments. This is the only way in which we will get anywhere with environmental control in Australia. 
It has also been very pleasing to note that the National Industry Council on Environment Quality Control has met in Canberra. It is dealing with the protection and restoration of environmental quality and industry's role in this immense task. It says that these are not issues which we can or shoud consider in any narrow, selfish or sectarian fashion. The Council will meet in Canberra regularly. It is also very interesting to note the great industries which are represented on the Council. They include the Australian Chemical Industry Council, the Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, the Australian Mining Industry Council, the Metal Trades Industry Association, the National Packaging Association of Australia, the Petroleum Industry Environment Conservation Committee, and the Printing and Allied Trades Employers Federation of Australia. These organisations are taking a very active interest in dealing with this problem which comes under the control of the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Along with my colleagues, I very strongly support this Ministry which has been established and also the amounts which have been appropriated for it in the Budget. 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether considerable quantities of petroleum products have escaped from pipelines in Botany Bay. Are these lines carrying petroleum from the Australian oil refineries terminal on the southern side of Botany Bay to the terminal at Banksmeadow on the northern side? Is this pollution causing great concern in the Botany Bay area and involving local authorities in considerable expense in cleaning up operations? Can the Minister inform the House of any steps taken to prevent further desecration of surrounding foreshores from this source? 
I rise to support the expenditure of $66,286,000 as set out in the estimates for the Department of Immigration. I congratulate the Government on its immigration policy. Immigration is one of the most important matters that we have to administer as a Government. With our vast areas and resources it is impossible for us to develop without increasing our work force and providing additional manpower for so many projects necessary to achieve successful results. This Government has been aware of the necessity to keep a steady flow of migrants to this country, but it has not been engaged upon a blind and mindless pursuit of numbers. Ours is a nation that has been built up by migrants and we have not yet ceased to build. There may come a time when we no longer need to build and when we no longer need migrants. But this lies in the future. Such a proposition has no practical significance for our .time. Since migration resumed after World War II more than 2.7 million settlers have come from overseas and upwards of threequarters of a million children have been bom to them. These figures, viewed against the perspective of our overall population of nearly 13 million people illustrate the magnitude and impact of post-World War II migration on Australian society. 
Of course there are critics and in the main this criticism centres on the proposition that immigration inhibits economic growth, that our policy is based on just getting numbers and ignores quality. Other critics regard immigration as the cause of pollution, of the urban sprawl, inflation and so on. Some critics say that immigration is the root cause of Australia's problems. Inflation is neither confined to nor worst in Australia and the other great countries of immigration. The attitude that our immigration programme is simply some kind of numbers game is completely wrong. The migration target each year is related to the following: Firstly, the government's appreciation of Australia's needs and objectives; secondly, the availability of suitable settlers; and thirdly, our economic and sociological capacity as a nation to integrate the settlers arriving. The immi gration programme operated by this Government takes into account such factors as changes in the employment situation, availability of housing and accommodation, balance of sexes, the worker dependent pattern, and other factors bearing on the successful integration of migrant groups. This involves close co-operation between a number of government departments, in particular the Department of Labour and National Service. 
Australia has a good name as a country where migrants are well accepted and taken into the community. Visits this year of Commonwealth delegations, on one . of which I had the privilege of being a member, to Turkey, Yugoslavia, Ireland and England revealed that Australia was regarded as being most acceptable to migrants from those areas. Australia was held in high esteem. In all those countries people asked us about Australia and about migrating here. We in turn must see that we are getting good types of migrants who will be assimiliated quickly and will be able to make a contribution to the skill of the trade or vocation in  which they have been trained. We should be able to get first class migrants along these lines. Indeed, we have done so over the years. 
One must realise, of course, that difficulties arise in obtaining migrants from European countries when the - economic situation of those countries improves. This is reflected from year to year in our intake. There is no doubt in my mind that we should be careful about drastically cutting our intake of migrants. It 'has been said that cutting Australia's intake of migrants would assist in combating inflation. I would like to quote very briefly from an article which appeared in -the Melbourne Age' of 18th October.  Mr R.  J. Thompson,  President  of the Housing Industry Association, was reported as having said: 
Cutting Australia's intake of migrants would do nothing to reduce inflation, and was a backward step for the country. 
The Australian economy must continue to grow, or it will be taken over - physically and/or financially,'  Mr Thompson  said. 'Rising prices are resulting from cost-push not demand-pull, and in these circumstances maintaining the migrant intake is a  deflationary influence,'  -Mr Thompson  said. 
We ought to have regard to this matter but at the same time we do not want to regard  it  as the most important thing. Great damage could result from Australian politicians speaking in neighbouring countries without exercising the utmost care to be factual about Australia's immigration policy. Anyone who has travelled in these countries knows that there are many misleading stories about Australia's immigration policy, I have been in the East, the Near East and the Far East and I have heard these stories from the indigenous people. They stem from an extinct policy held by previous governments of all political flavourings. This policy was changed in Australia in 1966 with the full approval of all the political parties in this country. Recently it was announced that Australia was now receiving 10,000 settlers every year from Asian and Pacific countries. There is, of course, great difference of opinion among honourable members on the Opposition side and they are definitely divided over their immigration policy. 
Opposition members. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member for Riverina is out of his seat and is out of order. 
We had the evidence here tonight of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  being put back into the No. 1 immigration position on the Opposition side. He put forward a policy which somewhat resembles that of the Government but there are those in his' Party who completely oppose this policy. Others support a policy which might be described in this way: Avoid discrimination on any grounds of race, colour, skin or nationality. Does this mean that anyone who wanted to come here, provided he could feasibly fit into the Australian community, could do so? What a stupid policy that would be. I feel sure that the Australian people would have no part of such a policy. In the main our immigration has run on sound lines. Let us keep it that way. 
Finally I would like to call to task the honourable member for Riverina for his remarks here tonight about the Australian economy. We certainly have problems in certain sectors of the rural community, but Australia's economy is as sound as that of any country in the world. There is no doubt about this. One has only to look at the exchange rates for the Australian dollar to see that we can hold our own wilh any other country. It saddens me to se people in this chamber deprecating this position and running it down, to the detriment of Australia. We have our problems, certainly. Those problems in the rural areas have been accelerated by droughts and by floods. But let us be proud of this great country. Let us pull together. Let is assure people that the economy is sound, because that is so. 
I direct my question 10 the Minister for the Environment. Aborigines and the Arts. Have many local government councils in Australia approached the Minister to provide financial assistance to regional tourist associations established in the various States? Acknowledging that tourism is a large foreign exchange earner, will the Minister consider financial support being given to these regional tourist associations to develop this industry further? 
I rise to support the estimated expenditure by the Department of National Development of $38,457,200. It is noted that the expenditure for this Department last year was $40,139,716. In the time that is available to me tonight I desire to direct my remarks to the petroleum section of national development and in the dissection of the various activities of the Department it is noted that a provision of $ 10.3m has been set aside for assistance for oil search. Last year the amount actually expended in this important sector was $14,297,778. The discovery of petroleum in Australia under the jurisdiction of this Government has meant a great saving in foreign exchange. It has helped to keep up our overseas trade balances and enabled us to be self sufficient in this sphere which, in time of national emergency, would be of the utmost importance. At the present time we are producing approximately 52 per cent ot our total requirements. Unfortunately exploration for petroleum has tapered off considerably and no doubt is causing the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  and the Government considerable concern. 
An examination of the oil drilling industry reveals that at the end of September last there were 11 on-shore rigs drilling, with 12 rigs inactive. Off-shore there were 4 active and 2 inactive. Six rigs have over lost to Australian oil search mainly to South East Asia where discovery potential in these days is considered to be higher than in Australia. There was a peak of 43 on-shore and off-shore rigs available for hire at the start of 1968. If we are to make commercial discoveries of petroleum in Australia we must encourage oil drillers to come back and start operating. In the quest for oil in the United States of America in its initial exploration stage? wells and bores were put down like pins on a pin  cushion.  One can appreciate that this type of operation requires considerable capital and marshalling of resources, but consideration will have to be given to such procedures if we are to succeed in becoming self sufficient in the petroleum field. At present known resources of petroleum in this country are estimated to last for only the next 12 years, and unless new discoveries are made we will be forced to seek additional supplies overseas. Crude petroleum currently being imported comes predominantly from the Middle East whilst Indonesia and Borneo sources share about 30 per cent of the total. A little more than 5,000 million gallons per annum is the present import rate from the sources I have just mentioned. 
However, despite this pessimistic outlook there are good prospects of further discoveries and, indeed, on 10th August a small exploration company announced Australia's most promising oil strike in years. The strike is in the Tirrawarra No. 2 well between Innamincka Station and the Birdsville Track in the north-east corner of South Australia. The company is Bridge Oil and the oil flowed at a rate of 1,500 barrels a day. The flow is the largest yet in South Australia and this find is the best in Australia since Esso-BHP turned up Bass Strait. A further piece of good news was the discovery, on approximately 5th October 1971, by the Burmah Oil Co. of Australia- Woodside consortium of od and gas off the north-west coast of Western Australia. The consortium announced that flows of up to 1,500 barrels of oil a day plus 10 million cubic feet of gas a day were obtained from the weil. The consortium also says that it is too earlyyet to draw any conclusions from the initial findings of this well. When we look at oil exploration further we 3rd that Burmah Oil is to spend $57m in the nex 5 years exploring and proving its leases on the north-west shelf and Cooper Basin. 
Planet Oil has commenced drilling off the north east coast of Flinders Island and prospects are good. I might add, in answer to the interjection, that we need to have some of these overseas companies here to help us with our drilling operations because it requires capital and knowhow to find petroleum no matter what part of the world it is in. By 1980 the known reserves of crude will provide only some 30 per cent of total requirements and to maintain its 70 per cent self sufficiency Australia needs a new 1,000 barrels a day field every 2 years. The Government has appointed a review committee to look at incentives to increase the discovery rate. The committee comprises representatives of the Departments of Customs and Excise, National Development, Trade and Industry and the Treasury. The Government has been under pressure to re-examine its indigenous crude oil pricing policy laid down by the Government in 1968. By fixing the price at $2.06 a barrel the Government has sat back and watched the world price for crude oil rise against it. The price fixing formula is to remain in force until 1975, but the question is: To what extent has it become a disincentive to further oil exploration? I feel sure that the interdepartmental committee will find the pricing policy the key factor in its investigation. Recently the Minister for National Development stated that he hoped to have the report from this committee before the end of this year. 
When the former Prime Minister brought in his oil policy it was criticised because the price set was considered high by world trends. World prices were expected to go down in the following years. In fact, prices have gone up to such an extent that export markets must look particularly attractive to local crude producers. The Australian Petroleum Exploration Association, which has made a submission to the review committee on incentives, believes Australia is the only oil importing country in the world to require its indigenous oil to be sold at a 20 per cent discount. The price of indigenous oil in fact is the main argument in the case of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association for increased incentives for oil explorers. Of course, the Government's argument against an increase in the price is that, had the price gone down, it would still have guaranteed the $2.06 a barrel. Producers and potential producers are beginning to wonder whether even by 1975 the Australian price will be on a parity with overseas prices. An increase in the price of even a few cents would mean millions of dollars to the producers and would provide the sharpest possible increase in incentives for oil exploration. 
In the years since the subsidy scheme has been operating a total of $113m has been paid to oil explorers. Before coming into the chamber tonight I received a communication from the Minister to the effect that during September subsidies totalling $787,143 had been approved under the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act 1959-69. The pricing policy will be a vexed question for the review committee but there are many facts which point towards a falling off in oil exploration and discovery rates in the country. The Government must therefore act quickly to provide additional incentive for oil exploration. This is a most urgent matter. I know that the Minister for National Development knows that this is a very important matter and that he and the Government are doing all they possibly can to speed up exploration for oil in this country which is so vital to us in every way. I support fully the Budget estimates for this Department. I deplore the fact that the Opposition has seen fit to bring in an amendment to reduce these estimates by a paltry $1. 
I ask the Acting Minister for Primary Industry whether his attention has been drawn to statements claiming that the Australian Wool Commission is failing to inform people of types of wool that are rising sharply in value and is acting in secrecy in relation to prices for parts of the clip. Has the Minister also seen claims made that these low grade wools have risen sharply in price since the Australian Wool Commission withdrew its reserve price support? Can the Minister clarify this situation and inform the House as to the exact position? 
I rise to support the estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department, which provide for an expenditure of $74,155,000 this year. It is interesting to note that last year an amount of $67,414,026 was actually expended by the Department on its operations. The Post Office, being the largest business undertaking in Australia, has certainly experienced great problems with rising costs, particularly in the wages field where S77m has been added to the cost of labour this year compared with the average increase in the last 5 years of S40m. To keep within reasonable financial loss limits the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  has had to increase post and telegraph charges. This increase has imposed great financial burden and hardship on people in country areas, who rely so heavily on post and telegraph communications. 
One area in which a section of the community has been charged very heavily for services rendered is in the delivery by mail of daily newspapers to people who live in outlying areas. There certainly has been a great increase in the charge for this service. It is common for people who live in these areas to be charged 20c or more for the delivery of their daily newspapers from the local newsagent. I believe that the Post Office has lost a considerable volume of business in country areas as a result of the increase in this charge because private mail contractors and carriers are now delivering newspapers at half the price being charged by the Postmaster-General's Department. As it could have an effect on postal revenue. I believe it is a matter which is worthy of investigation by departmental officers. Quite a considerable loss of postal revenue throughout Australia could be lost as a result of this increase. 
The Postmaster-General's Department is making every effort to cut down on overhead expenses. For example, it has in hundreds of instances closed small non-official post offices and downgraded official post offices to non-official post offices. I agree wholeheartedly with the remarks of the honourable member for MacArthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  concerning the great service which the small post offices give to the people in country regions. The wonderful services which they provide means so much to and is appreciated by the people in these areas. I believe that the wholesale closing of small post offices has been to the detriment of people who live in country areas. For that reason, I believe that this policy should be very carefully review. Every day one receives in the mail letters from people complaining about the closing of small post offices. I appreciate that the Department is actually losing financially on these post offices, but the providing of services for people in outback areas is more important and it should receive more consideration than it is being given at the present time. Whilst action of this kind is no doubt warranted in some instances there are many occasions on which I feel it is not warranted. One case which comes to mind is the post office at Denman, which is in the Paterson electorate. Denman is a most important town on the Hunter River. It is one of the biggest milk producing areas in the region. It is also the headquarters of the Denman Shire Council and an area in which great development is taking place at the moment in the extension of the wine industry and the planting of vineyards. The development which is taking place at present is on a large scale and will boost the business of the Postmaster-General's Department in the town. Being the headquarters of the Shire Council it is, of course, causing concern to the people there from a prestige point of view. But I am not worried about the prestige point of view. I am worried about the fact that it is a growing area and I believe an official post office should be kept there. This matter has been taken up with the Postmaster-General. I hope that he will make a firm investigation of the retention of the post office at Denman on an official basis. 
The Department also owns a block of land in the heart of Denman and it is in a much better location than the present office. Consideration should be given to the construction of a new post office building on that block. Country people have been upset by the programme of closing small post offices, as I have mentioned before, and this is causing country members great concern. It has been pleasing to see the Minister recently modify considerably a scheme put forward by the telecommunications section of the Department whereby many changes would have been made in existing centres of operation throughout Australia, for new set-ups under area managers and the implementation of this scheme in its orginal form would have caused great inconvenience to the staff and the loss of considerable revenue in the towns and cities where those offices were situated. This proposal has been changed satisfactorily by the Minister and I think this must give great satisfaction to all those who were expressing considerable concern about this change of policy. I congratulate and thank the Minister for being so considerate in changing this proposal which apparently was brought forward without great consideration being given to the effect it would have on staff in country towns, on the policy of decentralisation and the loss of the considerable amount of wages that is spent in those towns. 
Television reception is very poor in the Upper Hunter region and the Department has plans to install a translator station on Rosscole Mountain Near Aberdeen, along with commercial television interests. There has been considerable delay in starting this important project and over the past 2 years I have constantly brought the matter to the attention of the Minister, as viewers in this area have paid their television licence fees but still have very poor reception. These people constantly remind me of this poor reception and ask when the problem will be remedied. Only this week I received a communication from the Minister to the effect that the Australian Broadcasting Commission station would be built and in operation by 1972 and that the commercial station would be in operation in February 1972. This will be of great benefit to the television viewers in the Hunter Valley because the operation of these essential translator stations will mean viewers in the area will receive decent television reception. 
While the provision for the Department to meet the cost of telephone lines within IS miles of a post office has been of great assistance to people in country areas there is still a tremendous backlag in the provision of such services in country areas. I have many applications from business people in country areas for the installation of a telephone service. On taking this up with the officers of the telecommunications section of the Post Office I have been informed that the main reason for the delay is a shortage of cable. I ask the Postmaster-General to have a look at this situation because it is holding up the provision of many important services to business houses and other people in country areas. I support the estimates. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and the Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
that death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
that, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Australian Government take steps to offer employment, at least on a temporary basis, and in order to effect some relief, to academic and qualified persons among the persons from Bangla Desh. 
Your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry. Have licences for export to the United States of America recently been withdrawn from several large country abattoirs in New South Wales? Have these abattoirs complied with the requirements and asked for reinspection? Will the Minister see that the Department of Primary Industry carries out these inspections promptly so that valuable export trade can be recommenced? 
I desire to direct my question to the Treasurer. Have foreign investments in Australia assumed considerable proportions? Are investments from Great Britain given any preferential consideration over investments from other countries? Is the Government examining the position carefully and can the Minister state whether regulations and precautions are being taken to control the position? 
I support the motion moved by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  The wine industry is a major Australian primary industry with 150,000 acres sown to grapes. This is equivalent to the Australian fruit acreage and that indicates just how important this primary industry is. In the recent report of the Australian Wine Board presented to Parliament it was clearly stated that the 50c per gallon excise imposed by the Government in August 1970 had cost the sale of 2.4 million gallons during 1970-71. This is the first occasion that the Federal Government has imposed a direct tax on Australian wine. Before the 1970 
Budget there was no tax on table wines and sparkling wines. This new excise duty is a heavy one and when it was introduced by the Government fears were expressed that it could cause a severe setback to the industry. An examination of the figures for 1970-71 indicates that the growth rate which averaged 11.8 per cent over the previous 5 years had been completely checked and that sales in 1 970-7 1 were well down on the 1969-70 figures. 
The biggest effect that we see when we examine the situation has been in the retail bottle store sales of flagon and bottled wines. Total sales of wine in 1969-70 amounted to 24,385,001) gallons and industry leaders expected that sales would reach 26.8 million gallons in 1970-71. The halting of the growth rate alone has resulted in the loss of trade, as I mentioned in my opening remarks. Industry leaders met Federal Ministers earlier this year and pointed out to them the problems the industry faces and that this excise duty had caused a serious economic situation for growers and wine makers. In the 1970 Budget it was estimated that revenue from wine excise would be SI 2.5m in 1970-71. Preliminary figures which have been issued show that the amount raised by the tax was $9.25m.This represents a shortfall in revenue in 1970-71 equal to 6.5 million gallons of wine and it demonstrates the severity of this tax on the industry concerned. Further investigations show that there is a considerable surplus of wine within the industry which will reflect on the 1972 vintage intake, and this in turn could result in a surplus of grape tonnage. Indeed, an excess grape tonnage has already shown up in the industry. 
The feeling among wine men from the Hunter Valley in my electorate to the Barossa Valley in South Australia is that the Government should not have imposed an excise tax on a rural industry which has shown prospects of high profitability and, above all, great export potential. These people feel that they are partly supporting other rural industries that are experiencing financial difficulties. These growers feel that if the tax remains it will probably be increased in future budgets, and this could eventually lead to a serious crisis for both growers and wineries. This has been the tendency of previous governments throughout Australia, of whatever political complexion. When a tax is brought in it is very difficult indeed to have it eliminated, and this is one of the fears which the growers and the wineries have. They feel that with the introduction of this excise the industry has been set back at least 2 years. 
The wine growing industry is one which has developed over the years purely on its own initiative and drive and not on government subsidy, support or assistance. It has really developed over the last 5 years. Apart from Australian activity it has commenced to provide a valuable contribution to export earnings. Exports in 1970-71 totalled 1.4 million gallons compared wilh .1.3 million gallons in the previous year. Sales to Britain lifted marginally to 498,000 gallons, and Canada sales increased about 9,000 gallons to 476:201 gallons. But of course the entry of Britain into the European Economic Community will seriously affect Australian wine sales. There is likely to be a contraction of the United Kingdom market. There has, however, been some growth in exports to Canada, and these exports are to some extent compensating for the possible decline in exports to the United Kingdom. However there is great concern in the industry about the rapidly rising wine import figures. While Australia exports nearly 3 times as much wine as is imported, imports are growing rapidly. Italy is the main country which is exporting to Australia. These exports will have to be watched very carefully; otherwise they could have a very serious effect on the wine industry in this country. 
And on the balance of payments, as my friend has indicated. Prior to the introduction of excise duty on wine, in my electorate great development was taking place and vineyards were being established at an accelerated rate, bringing a requirement of labour, materials and capital to the area. I can instance the great development that has taken place in the Branxton, Pokolbin, Broke, Cessnock area, at Muswellbrook, at Denman and in all parts of the Hunter Valley. There has been great expansion in this industry without any assistance from the Government. 
Assistance has come from the local people, well established wineries such as Penfolds and others, and business people from the various cities, particularly Sydney, investing their capital. 
Wine growing country is not the most fertile country in the world. A lot of the country now used for growing wine grapes was unused for other purposes but has been most successful in the productions of wine grapes. The Hunter Valley wines hold a very important place in the Australian wine industry because some wines produced there are amongst the finest and most distinctive in Australia. In 1963 the area in the Hunter Valley under wine grapes stood at 1,232 acres. By 1967 after the start of the boom it had reached 2,300 acres. This increased to 3,450 acres in 1969. In 1970, 3,000 additional acres were planted and it is predicted that this rate of expansion could continue for several years. Prior to the introduction of the excise duty it was anticipated that by 1975 the total area could be in excess of 12,000 acres. This is real development in a fine industry. It compares with 7,500 acres in the Mumimbidgee Irrigation Area and 17,500 acres at present under wine grapes in the Barossa Valley of South Australia. 
There is a high demand for Hunter Valley wines throughout Australia and sales have been excellent, but producers and those engaged in the industry are extremely concerned that the price of wine can be lifted to a figure which is out of reach of the buyers. This is very rauch so with the added costs of production - the wages, materials and land costs. Because of these high costs the producers of wine are very concerned with the resultant price that has to be charged for their product and the buyer resistance that could result. There is no doubt that the excise duty imposed has put a damper on the further development of a very fine industry. As has been mentioned by the honourable member for Angas, most primary industries receive Government assistance. The wool, wheat, dairying, sugar and tobacco industries are all subsidised primary industries and yet the wine industry is subject to an excise duty and receives no help from the Treasurer or the taxpayer. The growers have never asked for assistance. They have developed a fine industry on their own initiative and foresight. We should be helping the industry, not retarding it for purely revenue purposes. Look at the assistance given to the manufacturing industries. Tariff and other protections are given. The wine industry is clearly at a disadvantage when compared with these manufacturing and secondary industries. 
With consumer resistance there could be large surpluses in the industry. This is evidenced by a record 66,491,000 gallons being stored at the present time, which represents on earlier figures quoted by me a 3 year supply of wine in this country. This is a situation which, if 'these surpluses increase, will be a most serious one for growers and the industry to absorb and can bring a valuable and prosperous primary industry into financial difficulties. In view of the assistance that the Government gives to other primary industries, the Government could not well overlook the wine industry. It would have to help it financially. Assistance is something for which the wine growers and producers have never asked before, lt would be foreign to them. I ask the Government to give consideration to revising this excise tax which has been placed on the wine growers of this country. 
I direct a question to the Minister for National Development. Is the Japanese steel industry proposing to restrict its output? Is this affecting the supply of Australian coal to Japan? Have the continuous strikes in the Australian coal industry also had a serious effect on coal supplies to Japan? Will the Minister tell the House the current situation with regard to coal supplies to this important market? 
I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise a question. Is illegal entry of marihuana increasing to alarming levels? Is the smoking of this drug causing concern amongst parents of young people throughout Australia and affecting the health of such smokers? Will the Minister inform the House of measures taken to control the use of this drug? 
 The Minister for Primary Industry no doubt will be aware of (he results of yesterday's wool sales which indicated a reduction in the amount of wool being purchased by she Australian Wool Commission. Does the Minister feel that this upturn in price is indicative of a general trend towards increased world wide demand for wool? 
I rise to support the measure introduced by the Government and I oppose most bitterly the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. I oppose the amendment because yesterday here in Canberra the representatives of the various State Treasuries met officials from the Commonwealth Government to set up an immediate scheme for the implementation of the funds that have been made available by the Commonwealth. The business of the meeting yesterday was to discuss such questions as the distribution of the Commonwealth grants between the States, the nature of the activities to which they will be applied for employment-giving purposes, the speed with which the arrangements can be brought into operation and the various administrative aspects of the scheme. These officials have now returned to their various States and will bring the matters discussed to the notice of their Ministers. 
I say that this Government has acted speedily in bringing this matter to a head so that the various State governments can bring in and implement the scheme in the country districts under their control. There has been no delay at all on the pari of the Federal Government in this very important matter. Unemployment figures have been mentioned by the various speakers who have taken part in this debate. I have here the various unemployment figures for New South Wales. I will not say that , they do not give cause for concern, but at the same time they are not of an alarming nature. But they are of such a nature that the Government has decided to give assistance not only in New South Wales but also throughout Australia. When we look at the centres that have been most affected we find that they are centres where the wool and wheat industries are prominent, particularly the wool industry. This is one of the serious situations which this Government has to face. We are al) agreed on this. So I feel that this legislation is most worth while. Although of a temporary nature, it will mean that the unemployment pools that have been created in the wool areas will be overcome for the time being. 
I was very interested in the speech made in this House last Thursday by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on this very important facet. He said that, in broad terms, the Government envisages an arrangement providing for grants for employment-creating activities to be made to the States for the period up to 30th June 1973, subject to review after 30th June 1972 in the light of the then prevailing conditions. I think this is a very fair statement and one that indicates to people in these affected areas that they can expect assistance right up to that time but if there have been changed conditions in the meantime of a beneficial nature financially, this assistance will be tapered off. The objective of the scheme is to make a signicant impact on the level of unemployment in the non-metropolitan areas. Grants will be made for the purpose of reimbursing expenditure on additional labour intensive activities of a production kind. This is a wise policy; otherwise, if the money were to be expended on maintenance ventures and undertakings of this nature it would lose ils real significance. 
Recent grants made lo some States under drought relief arrangements to enable the employment of persons who are unemployed as a result of drought might be taken as a broad indication of the type of scheme thai the Federal Government has in mind. We all know that the amount of money that has been mentioned is about $2m a month, spread right throughout Australia. I have been very disappointed with the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  because of the calamitous statements that he so frequently makes in this House. Here today this honourable member said that we were going back to the depression days. What sheer and utter nonsense. He spoke about refugee camps in the cities to take care of the people from these areas. Talk of this nature does not do his Party, the Government or the nation any good. 
The economy of this country is very sound, particularly when compared with that of overseas countries, lt is sound because we have overseas balances of S2,600m. our exports have never been better, deposits in savings banks are at an all time high, and unemployment in this country - at 1.1 per cent of our work force - is the lowest of any country in the world. In the United Kingdom 3.4 per cent of the work force is unemployed, and over 6 per cent of the work force in the United States of America. These figures indicate that despite problems that we have in this country our economy is sound. Our economy is viable. Statements made by any member of the House along the lines of those made by the honourable member for Riverina are most damaging to everybody concerned. 
The rural reconstruction scheme has been mentioned. It has, in the main, been most successful. The Commonwealth Government has made money available to the States to assist farmers who are viable and who with financial assistance can get out of any troubles that they may be in. But when we analyse the rural reconstruction scheme we find that most of the States prior to receiving this grant from the Commonwealth Government did not have the machinery to implement the rural reconstruction scheme throughout their primary producer areas. I have no doubt that this is one of the reasons why in many instances there has been delay in getting this finance out to the farmers who have been affected. New South Wales was one of the States that had a rural reconstruction department set up. I believe that it has been able to get its money out more quickly than any of the other States. Many statements have been made to the effect that the States have run out of money. The Federal Government has made it quite clear in its rural reconstruction legislation that when any of the States have allocated the funds which were made available to them and have made application to the Federal Government, further consideration will be given to the allocation of additional funds. I have heard that New South Wales and some other States have allocated all their money and are short of funds. I do not know whether the Ministers in those States have made application to the Federal Government for more funds, but if they do I feel sure that they will receive every consideration and every assistance. 
The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  mentioned that there is a high level of unemployment in the metropolitan areas. From my observation of the various cities throughout Australia, and particularly Sydney, there is an adjustment of employment from one industry to another. There certainly are some unemployed. I feel quite sure that, when the necessity arrives for the Government to give assistance in this field, it will do so. But 1 have no hesitation whatsoever in saying that the greatest problems have been in the wool and wheat growing areas. That is why this Government has given those areas assistance along the lines of the measure that we are debating here today. One of the most important aspects of this legislation is that this money will be channelled out in the States through the various local governing authorities. This will ensure that the money is spent wisely, that it is spent on projects which are worthy ones and not of a temporary nature and that it will bring great benefit to those local governing areas as well as providing employment for the people who have been affected by the rural recession in that particular sector. 
I know that local government throughout Australia will welcome these funds, which will alleviate a great problem that is on their hands. At the same time the money will enable them to carry out work which will be of everlasting benefit to the municipalities and the shire areas wherever those funds are expended on worthwhile projects. So I have very much pleasure indeed in supporting the measure brought down by the Government. For the reasons which I have very clearly set out, I am certainly disappointed with the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
I ask the Minister for the Army whether it is the intention of the Australian Army to change the role of the Singleton Army camp. Has this camp housed the 3rd Australian Training Battalion and been one of Australia's most important training camps? Can the Minister inform the House of the role this important military establishment will play under the Australian Army's rearrangement programme? 
 J support the Bill, the purpose of which is to increase the rates of unemployment benefit and sickness benefit referred to in section 112 of the Social Services Act. This Government is pledged to full employment and to give assistance to persons who are unemployed. As at 30 th January last 130,233 people were unemployed in Australia, being 89,849 males and 40,384 females. Included in that total are 23,417 school leavers. Whilst those figures do not give concern to the Governnment it is interesting to compare them with the unemployment figures of overseas countries. A comparison shows that Australia has the lowest unemployment as a percentage of the work force. Whilst unemployment in Australia does give cause for concern 
I am sure that in the months ahead it will be reduced, for reasons that 1 will give during the course of this speech. 
I direct the attention of honourable members to a comparison of unemployment in Australia with unemployment in Canada. The latest unemployment figure for Canada is about 503,000, which represents about 5.8 per cent of the work force. At the end of November last about 4,815,000 were unemployed in the United States of America, or about 5.7 per cent of the work force. The latest unemployment figure available for France shows that about 376,000 were out of work. The percentage of the work force represented by that number is not known. The latest available figure for the United Kingdom shows that in October last about 930,000 people or 4 per cent of the work force were then unemployed there. In Australia the unemployment figure represents about 2.3 per cent of our work force and compares more than favourably with any overseas country. 1 was very interested to hear the remarks of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who accused the Government of vicious manipulation to create unemployment. A statement like that is sheer and utter nonsense. If statements like that are made throughout the country they will do no good for the honourable member, his Party or the nation. On today's notice paper at page 11.785 appears a question asked by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  The honourable member has asked: 
Is it a fact that the plan which he announced in early December 1971 to remove 14.000 woolgrowers from the countryside involves families exceeding 40,000 people? 
Is it also a fact that the established ratio of producers to other rural residents is one to four so that the evacuation of about 100.000 people is involved in the plan? 
Is it the intention of the Government to establish refugee camps for the dispossessed within the capital cities? 
Will steps be taken to provide transport for these people, preferably not in sheep trucks, as the S 1,000 loan to be provided by the Government to those dispossessed will hardly cover the costs of moving? 
Absolutely. If statements such as that are publicised throughout the length and breadth of this country they will cause problems through loss of confidence of the people. It ill behoves the honourable member for Riverina to make statements of that nature, containing distortions of fact. It is not true that 100,000 people are to be transferred to the cities where tents will have to be provided. It is sheer humbug and absolute nonsense. In my opinion unemployment in this country has been caused by quite a number of factors, one of the most important factors being agricultural conditions which have existed right across the board in the past 3 or 4 seasons. We have experienced drought, floods, and a considerable fall in wool prices, including the lowest price for this bread and butter commodity for many a long day. Over-production of wheat brought about the introduction of quotas. These factors have causedunemployment on properties in country areas with a consequent effect on businesses in country towns. The unemployment situation in those areas has been greatly affected. 
The servicing industries in the country towns have also been affected. There has been a lack of demand for farm machinery which has been transmitted to other secondary industries. Manufacturers like International Harvester Co. of Australia Pty Ltd, H. V. Mackay, John Shearer and Sons Ltd, Chamberlain Industries Pty Ltd, J. I. Case (Australia) Pty Ltd, John Deere Ltd and others have had to restrict their activities and put off men because of agricultural conditions. These conditions have had a very big effect on the automobile industry, particularly on General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd, Chrysler Australia Ltd and Ford Motor Company of Australia. 
 When conditions in the agricultural industry improve in Australia - and prices for grains and wool are picking up now - there will be an increased demand for farm machinery and motor vehicles. This will help to alleviate the unemployment which has been created. The coal industry has been adversely affected and a number of mines have closed down because of the shrinkage of export markets. This again has resulted in unemployment. Exports of many commodities manufactured in Australia have slowed down and this has caused unemployment because the overseas demand for those products has ceased. Manufacturers have had to put off staff but there is every indication that the export markets are also improving. However, we must be very concerned about the effect of industrial unrest on the labour market. Recently the great power industry located in the Latrobe Valley in Victoria was thrown into jeopardy. In turn certain manufacturers in New South Wales and South Australia were affected. Whilst industrial action of that type is taken the employment situation will certainly not be improved. Direct industrial action by sections of the trade union movement could jeopardise the jobs of thousands of workers and make it difficult for those people already out of work to find suitable employment. 
This is a very important matter which concerns all decent thinking Australians. People listening to the honourable member for Oxley may be led to believe that Australia is suffering a dire depression, that our economic situation is absolutely chaotic and that we are in real trouble. We certainly have problems, but at the same time we have the greatest overseas balances we have ever had. Our export trade has never been better. Our monthly sales of export commodities are first rate and are running at an all time high. Our savings bank balances are also at an all time high. Fixed deposits in our trading banks are sound, but while people make statements that there is a depression there will be a lack of confidence throughout the land. There should not be this type of talk. If we can instil confidence in our people our unemployment problems will be considerably relieved. 
I support this Bill which provides for a payment of $17 per week adult unemployment benefit, an increase of $7 a week. For the 16 to 17 years age group it has been increased from $4.50 to $7.50; for the 18 years to 20 years age group it has been increased from $6 to $11. The allowance for the wife remains at $8 and $4.50 for each child. The unemployed, of course, must register and the benefits commence 7 days after registration. Apart from the assistance which the Minister for Social Services has brought down in this Bill, this Government a fortnight ago in Canberra when the Premiers met here doubled the amount of money made available to the States to be channelled out to unemployed people through local government, so nobody can say that this Federal Government is not doing its best to aleviate the unemployment problem. 
When we compare these figures which the Minister has included in the Bill with unemployment benefits in other countries, our figures compare more than favourably. In the United Kingdom it is $12 a week; here it is $17 a week,  la  Canada it is from $13 to $42 a week depending on the number of dependants, and in France it is $12 a week. So this Bill is a very fair one and it will assist those people who are unemployed. I feel we can look to the future with confidence. One honourable member tonight during this debate by way of interjection said that there will be half a million unemployed in this country. I deplore statements of this nature. Men who make such statements are doing a disservice to this great country and it is a shame that such statements are ever made. I have pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
I desire to direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: How many meat export licences remain cancelled in Australia? Is this cancellation seriously affecting the sales and export of meat to the United States of America? Will the Minister indicate what steps are being taken to regain these licences and whether it will be possible to arrange prompt re-inspections of abattoirs when the necessary requirements have been met? 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport: Will shipping freight rates on exports to Japan and the Far East rise by 15 per cent as from 1st May? Could such a rise seriously affect our trade in this region by allowing commodi  ties to be freighted in from other countries at cheaper rates? Will the Government call a conference of shippers to see whether this rise can be averted? 
I support this Bill. the purpose of which is to authorise the borrowing of moneys by the Commonwealth to lend to the Australian Wheat Board. The legislation is necessary to enable the Commonwealth to met its obligations under a guarantee of repayment of borrowings by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank in respect of wheat from the 1970-71 pool. Similar loans have been made in the previous 2 wheat seasons. The sum of $364m was borrowed from the Reserve Bank ;o help in marketing the 1970-71 crop. This amount has to be paid back to the Reserve Bank by 31st March of this year; that is the end of this month. This payment has to be made 1 year after borrowing, under the Reserve Bank Act. 
The Australian Wheat Board makes sales of wheat on credit and receipts will not be sufficient to enable it to met its borrowings in full. This proposal is for the Commonwealth to lend to the Board enough money to discharge its debt to the Reserve 
Bank. The Board is required to use the net proceeds from export sales of wheat from the 1970-71 pool, after the date of loan, in addition to the Commonwealth's stabilisation payment. The interest rate on the money borrowed by the Board, as mentioned by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  is  5i  per cent. I believe that this is a very reasonable rate of interest. Many people in this chamber and outside it would be glad to borrow money at that rate and I therefore cannot agree with the criticism of the honourable member for Wilmot. 1 think it is a very reasonable rate. 
The Bill authorises the Commonwealth to borrow up to $150m to lend to the Board. In Australia during the 1970-71 season record sales of wheat were made by the Australian Wheat Board. Total earnings from wheat sales were about $433m. Sales totalled 332 million bushels or 18 million bushels more than the record wheat year of 1966-67. Honourable members may be interested to hear details of those sales. Tonight the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  mentioned that the United Kingdom is a big wheat grower, but the figures I have show that the United Kingdom was the biggest purchaser of Australian wheat in 1970-71. The United Kingdom purchased 1,716,598 tons for $81,522,000. The People's Republic of China was the next biggest purchaser, taking 1,287,881 tons for $57,402,000. The United Arab Republic, which of course has taken over the position held by the People's Republic of China, bought 1,249,777 tons for $56,252,000. Japan bought 807,967 tons for $40,156,000. Sales to Iraq have rapidly increased. In 1970-71 Iraq purchased 427,998 tons for $22,998,000. Malaysia was a very big market for Australian flour in past years. Along with Singapore, Malaysia is now a whole grain buyer. In 1970-71 it purchased 306,087 tons of Australian wheat for $15,385,000. Sales were also made to Singapore and Iran. 
A study of recent sales shows that in this period many new markets have been opened up, particularly in South America to countries such as Chile. I read the other day that the present Wheat Board had sold 200,000 tons of our wheat to Chile. There were fortuitous circumstances in this year, such as the world-wide lift in- demand for wheat for stock feeding, accompanying the buoyant market for feed grains which followed the blight damage to the United State corn crop. When there is a damage to the United States corn crop, it affects grain sales and grain market conditions throughout the world. The drought in the Middle East and the United States waterfront strike also were contributing factors. 
Even taking these factors into consideration, the most successful year was in no small measure due to the energies and the enterprise of the Australian Wheat Board in its marketing efforts in a very competitive world situation. It redoubled its efforts to maintain existing markets and to develop new ones and, like the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  I pay a great tribute to the Australian Wheat Board for its wonderful efforts on behalf of the wheat growers of this country in bringing this commodity up to be the second biggest export earner in Australia's total exports for the year. The United Arab Republic, particularly Egypt, comes to mind as a new market which has been developed and it has helped to fill the gap left by the cessation of buying by the People's Republic of China, which I have already mentioned. Most of Australia's competitors in grain marketing this year are enjoying very favourable seasons. It may be difficult for us and our marketing authority, the Australian Wheat Board, to maintain world grain prices. This fact and the progressive extension of terms for payment are factors which must be taken into account when considering prospects for the future. It is of great concern to ensure that growers receive the highest possible return for all grain as well as other primary products sold for export. For this reason, wheat quotas based on stocks and sales prospects will continue to be important means of stabilising producers' returns. 
The matter of quotas has been one of great concern to everybody in the wheat industry, particularly the primary producers, and it was brought about because of a world over-supply of wheat. The Australian wheat industry encountered serious problems in storing and marketing the unprecedented intake of wheat from the 1968-69 harvest. Realising that another large crop in 1969-70 would compound these problems, the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation formulated a plan in March 1969 aimed at bringing production to manageable levels. The essentia] features of the proposals put forward by this body at that time were, firstly, that quotas would be imposed on deliveries to the Australian Wheat Board in each State in 1969-70. The basic State quotas at this time totalled 344 million bushels. It is interesting to note that they were allocated to the various States as follows: New South Wales, 123 million bushels; Victoria, 65 million bushels, Queensland, 25 million bushels; South Australia, 45 million bushels; Western Australia, 86 million bushels. The second proposal - this is a most important point and it has been followed by the present legislation - is that a first advance payment of $1.10 would be made on all wheat from the 1969-70 crop delivered to the Australian Wheat Board within the limits of the quota system. 
The scheme was supported by the wheat industry in all States. In general, it is based on the average deliveries by growers over a certain period. AH States, of course, have fallen into line and have enacted the necessary legislation. In 1970-71, the Australian quota was 295 million bushels; in 1971-72 it was 314 million' bushels and this year we know that the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation asked for a quota of 407 million bushels to which the Australian Government and the various States have agreed. In addition there will be a $1.10 payment per bushel, less freight, on deliveries of quota wheat to the Australian Wheat Board. New South Wales has been allocated 157 million bushels, Victoria 67 million bushels, South Australia 50 million bushels, Western Australia 95 million bushels, and Queensland 38 million bushels. 
The season through which we are now going has been disappointing, particularly in New South Wales. I do not have the accurate figures but that State has a quota of some 123 million bushels and has produced something like only 80 million bushels. The supply position has shown a dramatic change from 12 months ago, to the extent of a reduction of about 120 million bushels. However, overseas prospects are not nearly so bright and a repetition of last year's performance is most unlikely. There is a greater pressure of supplies meeting reduced demand and world trade is expected to be of a lower volume. Nevertheless, with the low level of the 1971-72 intake, the carry-over at the end of the season could well show a substantial decline. So, in fact, there is a shortage of wheat in this country. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  spoke about hard wheats and quality wheats. This country must get down to marketing quality wheats - hard wheats - which come mainly from the black soil plains of our farming areas. I come from the biggest wheat producing centre in Australia which produces the hard quality wheats which are in great demand. However, in wet seasons we have wheat that is shot and sprung and other markets are found which are prepared to pay less for this type of wheat because it suits their own requirements. However, I think we certainly should stress quality if we are to maintain and increase our overseas markets. 
The honourable member for Riverina mentioned the black market that exists in wheat and he estimated that something like 10 million bushels have gone across the border. I should like to see some ways and means of obtaining a really authoritative figure on this type of activity because it is no good to the industry or to the primary producers who produce the wheat and it is a practice that certainly should be stopped if possible. In northern New South Wales there certainly has been a little trading over the border, but nothing to the order of 10 million bushels. I have mentioned in this House that there have been numerous instances where wheat has been stolen out of the silo system and my remarks received great publicity in the newspapers throughout Australia. Some of the authorities poohpoohed the idea but it is a fact because many people have been prosecuted throughout New South Wales for this practice. After all, it is the wheat grower who must foot the bill for this activity. I support the Bill and commend it to honourable members. 
The Minister for Primary Industry, to whom I address my question, will be well aware of recent marked fluctuations in wool prices. Does the Minister see any prospect of prices levelling but in the near future? If so, does he see a need for continued operations of the Australian Wool Commission? Can the Minister say whether, contrary to the opinion of the critics in recent times, the Australian Wool Commission has been able to dispose of any of its stockpile of wool? 
In the limited time available to me I wish to bring to the attention of the House the plight of local government throughout Australia, lt has been mentioned here on many previous occasions but I feel  I  should stress that local government organisations throughout the length and breadth of the land are finding it extremely difficult to carry out the duties with which they are faced. At the time of Federation local government was allocated to the States, and it has been their responsibility from that time. Nevertheless, as the Federal Government looks after the interests of the whole of Australia 1 feel certain that we should not shut our eyes to responsibilities in that field. 
In election campaigns the Government and the Opposition openly state that they support assistance being given to local government by the federal authorities, yet very little action is taken by federal sources. Local government has contributed greatly to Australia's development. Looking right across the board it is clear that most development has occurred through active local government authorities, both shire and municipal. These local government bodies are expected to carry out a modern system of development with an outmoded method of finance. 
Years ago tocal government was responsible for roads and footpaths, water and sewerage. Today local government is expected to provide many other amenities and essential services. It is required to provide swimming pools, children's playgrounds, baby health centres, libraries, aerodromes and sporting ovals. Local government bodies are also requested to assist in the development of industry. For instance, in New South Wales the Department of Decentralisation has a policy in this respect. If a local government body wants to support or develop an industry in an area it is required to find 30 per cent of the capital invested in that industry.This places another burden on local government. 
Furthermore, if local government desires to expand its public works system it has to be involved in raising public funds which must be paid back over the years. This, of course, places a burden on the ratepayers as well. If it were possible to compare in one area the taxes paid to the Government and the amounts provided to the local government organisation to be spent in that area, it would probably be found that a very small proportion is being returned to the locality for development. I appreciate that State governments, which are mainly responsible for local government, have their priorities. Naturally, if local government does not have a high priority, it lags and does not take its rightful place. But rates have reached a saturation point. Ratepayers groups throughout the country are holding meetings to protest about the fact that their rates are too high. These groups point out that they are not getting value for what they pay. They have a real problem on their hands. Indeed,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you have seen for yourself, and many honourable members will have seen in the Press, that ratepayers associations are advising their members not to pay their rates to local government, both shire and municipal councils. This is having a very serious effect on their finances. 
Many conferences have been held by local government bodies in New South Wales and in the other States. No other system of finance has been devised other than rates assessed on the unimproved capital value of land. Judicial inquiries have been held into this problem.  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell held the last such inquiry in New South Wales. He did not come up with anything of real benefit. It was suggested that a poll tax, or a tax placed on everyone who resides in a shire or municipality - could be applied. Such a tax has advantages but it also has great disadvantages. It appears to me that if local government is to survive in Australia it has to get some real financial assistance from either the, Federal or State governments. I was very disappointed to find that no mention was made of local government during the recent Premiers Conference held in Canberra. This was despite the fact, as I said earlier, that local government is responsible for more development in Australia than any other source. I would like to see the Prime Minister make certain that a discussion is held on this very important matter at the next Premiers' Conference in Canberra. 
I would not like to see the Federal Government dictate to local government in any shape or form. However, I would like to see the Federal Government realise that it has a responsibility to local government through the State governments. 1 know that the Federal Government does assist local government in some ways. 1 refer to unemployment relief, the responsibility that the Federal Government has in providing assistance by way of freight concessions on fodder sent to drought areas and the responsibility it has to local government in time of floods. I know that the Federal Government does assist in this way. But such assistance is given only in certain circumstances and is not permanent enough. Local government needs to have some real permanent basis on which to carry out its great activities. 1 commend this suggestion to the appropriate Federal Minister. I hope that the Prime Minister will do something about it at the next Premiers' Conference because whatever is done will be of benefit not only to local government but to the whole of the nation. 
I support the White Paper that has been brought forward by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  1 congratulate the Minister and the Government on the policy that has been set out in the paper. Honourable members on this side of the House feel that it is of great benefit to a very important facet of the Australian way of life as ii relates to the Aged Persons Homes Act 1954-69. What a great impact on accommodation in the community has been made by the provision of aged persons homes, hostels and nursing homes. A total of 42,500 beds was provided under this Act until the end of February last. Grants totalling S138m have been made under the Act for these institutions. Even so, there is still a great need for aged persons homes, hostels and nursing homes, and we should be doing all we possibly can as members of Parliament to interest responsible organisations to undertake such propositions, with consequent benefits to pensioners and a sense of satisfaction to themselves from having given assistance to fellow human beings. 
I regard the provision of aged persons homes as one of the most important social problems in the Australian way of life. It does one good to visit these homes and to see bow comfortable and contented are the people in them. They have a sense of security and, above all, independence which is so essential to aged people. Most of the aged persons homes have every comfort and convenience. I appreciate the efforts of those wonderful citizens who have gratuitously given their time and talents as members of committees of management of these institutions, and I congratulate them. The Minister for Social Services has visited my area to open officially aged persons home units, and what a great success they have been in providing aged folk with ideal, happy and most comfortable circumstances. 
Let us look at the types of institution or organisation that are eligible for assistance under the Aged Persons Homes Act. Firstly, there are religious organisations. The number of religious institutions far and away exceeds that of other organisations. Honourable members know what a wonderful job they are doing. Secondly, there are charitable or benevolent organisations; thirdly, servicemen's organisations; fourthly, other organisations that can prove to the Department  at  Social Services and the Government that they are responsible people who can take care of aged folk and who can provide a book of rules and a constitution that will satisfy the Department and the Government; and fifthly, municipal and shire councils. 
The list shows that municipalities and shires are not very heavy supporters of the scheme because of their financial problems in other fields. Commonwealth and State government institutions are not eligible for assistance under this scheme, and rightly so. Why should they be eligible? They have funds for this purpose. Institutions that are carried on for profit or gain similarly do not qualify. The Department of Social Services naturally lays down certain requirements to qualify for financial assistance from the Government through the Department. The Commonwealth contributes on the basis of $2 for ever $1 provided by the organisations, or twice the amount of the organisation's funds, whichever is the lesser 
I have pointed out that religious organisations conduct the greatest number of aged persons homes, but this should not deter other responsible and community institutions from taking over the sponsorship of such homes. Service organisations such as Rotary, Apex, Lions, Quota and Jaycees have great community interest in many "ot our towns and have interested themselves in the establishment of aged persons homes. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  took exception to the fact that citizens are asked for donations for the provision of aged persons homes. I think this is a good thing because it gives people in a community a sense of citizenship. It must give them great satisfaction to know that they can contribute to an age institution or a hostel in their community that will provide comfort and solace to aged people. If we looked at this matter Australia-wide we would find that where citizens are asked to contribute to an aged persons home unit they take an interest in that unit. They are prepared to visit the inmates to ascertain whether they can be helped any further. It is a lot of nonsense to talk as the honourable member did because people do not mind assisting to run these institutions and to make financial contributions to them. 
The honourable member for Oxley believes in the full-blooded socialisation of these institutions, where the inmates would only be digits or robots. Under a system of total socialism there would not be given to these people the human kind of care as is now the case. We believe in individualism - in citizens being able to show kindness and to give humanitarian assistance to these, elderly people. This care and interest must be of great benefit and solace to them. They appreciate the kindness that is shown to them when one visits their homes. They realise that you know that they have been citizens of the community and that they have given their lives in service to the community. They know that you are showing your appreciation to them. Prior to this Government taking office in 1949 no provision was made for this type of assistance. There were no effective medical plan for the aged, no nursing benefits and no supplementary assistance. There was no housing plan, and a very high proportion of pensioners were rackrented for substandard and overcrowded accommodation. That was the record of the Opposition prior to this Government coming into power. I congratulate the Government and the Minister on their splendid achievement in this very needy social field. I support the White Paper wholeheartedly. 
I address a question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister who is Minister for Trade and Industry. Given the prospects for increasing lamb production in Australia b the Minister in a position to indicate whether we can expect to find outlets for more Australian lamb in the United States of America? Is Australia embarking on a lamb promotion effort in the United States? If so, what is the latest position? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the possibility of securing cheaper wool shipping freights to Europe and Great Britain by using a certain overseas shipping line? Will the freighting of Australian wool overseas by this method result in considerable savings to the industry? Will the Minister inform the House as to the position of this important item? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has it been reported that Japanese meat interests will be calling tenders for future supplies of beef? Will this be a new procedure for the meat trade with Japan? Can the Minister advise of any possible effect that this procedure will have on sales of meat to this valuable market? 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service a question supplementary to that asked by the Leader of the Opposition. I refer to the figures recently released by the Minister covering the employment situation for the month of March. Do these figures indicate an improving trend in the labour market? What are the prospects for the period ahead? Will the Minister comment in particular on the working of the rural unemployment relief programme? 
I desire to speak briefly about an aviation matter. It concerns private pilot privileges. Under the present air navigation regulations private pilots are not able to receive a reward for trips they may undertake with passengers. This is a great detriment to the use of light private aircraft in country areas. 1 have heard of instances where the Department of Civil Aviation, through the Commonwealth Police, has taken action against pilots who have been rewarded financially by passengers. I have taken up this matter with the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  who has promised me that no further action will be taken against private pilots. However, there is still a fear in the minds of private pilots that action could still be taken. 1 feel that the air navigation regulations should be amended to allow these operations to take place. In the early days of private aviation the type of aircraft used primarily was a machine which largely had no serious application in the transportation of people and was used mainly for local flying of the joy riding type of operation. The present legislation was written to suit the situation at that time. Since the introduction of high performance, light aircraft, personal transportation has undergone a dramatic change in both cost of aircraft and its capabilities of being used in normal business activities. 
The number of hours flown in 197] by private and business aviation was 360,000. This was more than airline scheduled services, inclusive of Qantas, which was 335,000 hours. Also, from those early days when there were several hundred pilots, the number of pilots at 30th June 1971 stood at 12,030. These people have gained their licences mainly to put them to some productive use which, in point of law as it now stands, makes the practical use of a licence almost impossible in the economic sense. To quote an example of the cost to a private pilot, under the present legislation should he and 5 friends wish to have a weekend trip, hiring an aircraft from a commercial operator at $28 an hour, a 10-hour trip would cost him $280 - a cost that he would have to bear alone. Very few private pilots could afford this. The cost of this trip split 6 ways would make the trip an economic reality and also the commercial operator who hired the aircraft would make money instead of, perhaps, the aircraft being idle. 
Australia is such a big country that this personal means of transport - private aviation - needs the stimulus of being able to share the costs of this speedy form of transport. Also, there is the benefit of having proper legislation so that a pilot's friends and business associates are covered legally by insurance. A private pilot now legally is able to carry passengers, but not for hire and reward. He must bear completely the cost for the hire or. if he is the owner, the operating costs. The licensing standards of private pilots have improved substantially over the years and today are equal to any in the world, coupled with the pilots' increased knowledge and manipulative capability of these standards. Most of the general aviation fleet also are equipped with the latest in instrument, radio and navigation aids. The United States of America has changed its legislation on the lines proposed back in 1964. This has allowed its private flying and general aviation fleet to expand and grow to the largest fleet in the world, without any harmful effects. In fact, the opposite has been the result. Commercial air taxi operators who felt that they would lose business have gained. People have become more accustomed to using light aircraft. There have been gains in the sale of aircraft and repairs. On a national scale, the general aviation fleet has a large impact on the flexibility and mobility of business people in the United States of America. 
In Australia there is a similar need to develop along these lines and likewise to develop the maximum use of what is really an industrial machine. There is a need to relieve the private pilot from fear of prosecution for using his machine in a sensible and suitable manner, lt is believed that the legislation as it now stands has had a depressing effect on the light aviation industry. Aero clubs, which depend to some degree on the utilisation of their aircraft by private pilots, have found that with the increased costs of modern aircraft the hire of such aircraft has gone beyond the capability of a private pilot to utilise his licence legally. This legislation should have a considerable effect on the economic use of aircraft owned by aero clubs and commercial operators. I understand that one of the things that is detrimental to a change in the legislation is possible pressure by major airline companies, feeling that the light aircraft will affect their businesses. It will not. It could improve their businesses by bringing passengers from the outlying areas into the major centres from which those commercial operators run their services. 1 ask that the Minister for Civil Aviation have a look at this and repair an injustice that I feel is being meted out to private pilots under the present air navigation regulations. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Immigration representing the Minister for Health in this chamber. Is concern being expressed by primary producers and those engaged in the livestock industry about suggested inadequate precautions being taken to prevent foot and mouth disease entering Australia? Could the entry of this disease and other diseases have a serious effect on our valuable stock enterprises? Is the Commonwealth Department of Health taking sufficient precautions with persons entering Australia to prevent any outbreak of this disease? Will the Minister inform the House as to the present position in relation to this important matter? 
Has the Minister for Shipping and Transport seen a statement alleging that wool and other export industries suffer freight disabilities as a result of Commonwealth Government shipping policy? Is it not a fact that, to the contrary, Government policies have enabled the wool industry to secure cheaper freight rates for the  next  3 year period? 
I congratulate the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  for bringing this very important matter to the notice of Parliament because it could seriously affect one of our greatest primary industries and one of our great export earners. Red meat has been considered immune to market penetration by substitutes. Consumers like meat, and it has been difficult to duplicate meat's flavour, texture and nutritional qualities, particularly in an affluent society, However, a very real threat comes from the use of soya beans in simulated meat They appear to have the most nutritional value. The only other source of processed protein to be used on a commercial basis has been wheat in Japan. Experiments are being conducted in other countries with petroleum by-products. 
The United States and Japan are the 2 main producers of simulated meats and account for most of world consumption. Small quantities have also been marketed in some of the Western European countries and in South Africa, Canada and Australia, but vegetable protein meat substitutes on their own do not appear to be making much progress except among vegetarians, and there are many of those in these various fields. The United States of America, Japan and the United Kingdom are the countries in which developments must be continuously watched because, firstly, they are important markets for Australian meat, particularly manufacturing meat, and, secondly, they are the countries with the most developed vegetable protein production. Reports from the United States on the soya bean speak highly of its qualities, especially when it is used as an extender in sausages, hamburgers, 'hot dogs1 and bacon pieces. 
In the United States, where the cost of beef is high, substitutes compare favourably on a price basis. Therefore, substitutes are at present much more of a threat to the meat trade in the United States than in Australia where meat is appreciably cheaper than the simulated product. This is one reason why Australia's low-priced manufacturing type beef sells well in the United States. Meat substitutes were becoming a threat to the American meat market. There is no doubt about that, lt now is possible in the United States for soya bean protein substances to increase the normal hamburger mix by 25 to 30 per cent while maintaining the palatability of the end product and reducing the price from around 65c per lb to 53c per lb. The United States Department of Agriculture has estimated that by 1980 substitutes will displace 15 to 20 per cent of the meat now being used in meat-type food preparations in both institutional and retail markets. It is in this area that these developments could have significant effects on imports of Australian meat. 
The Japanese Government encourages the production and promotion of the new protein foods, and technical progress in this field is proceeding at a rapid pace. The local trade expects that Japan will produce a product that will be difficult to distinguish from natural beef and pork cuts within 5 io 10 years. Producers are concentrating on beef substitutes because of the shortage of natural beef in Japan and also because of its extremely high price. Japan is one of the best markets, as you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for the export of Australian beef. Indications at this stage are that substitute meats are not yet acceptable to consumers due to their flavour but they have a potential in the domestic market when blended on a percentage basis with natural meat. In the United Kingdom, which is a very important market for Australia, a survey of 40 of the major food suppliers has revealed that these suppliers expect a 5 per cent penetration of the meat market by new protein products by 1977, 10 per cent by about 1981 and 25 per cent by 1990. They are very significant figures in terms of the effect on our meat trade. 
A number of factors have contributed to the recent interest in meat substitutes. These include: Firstly, adverse publicity in developed countries over the use of animal fat in the diet; secondly, a public desire to remedy nutritional deficiencies among low income groups; and thirdly, the low cost of vegetable protein and the subsequent advantage of its use to upgrade the diets of low income groups throughout the world. Sales of meat substitutes at present in Australia are considered to be insignificant and have had a negligible effect on the Australian meat industry. Their marketing is largely confined to specialist health food shops. This is a dangerous situation in which to find ourselves with a complacent view because it is expected that in the long term synthetic and imitation meat will have very serious effects on the meat industry. 
It has been said that rising incomes and populations and changing tastes should continue to have a positive influence on the demand for natural meats and this should at least tend to partly offset any substitution effect which may arise from a greater availability of more acceptable simulated meats during the next few years. However, sufficient progress has been made in the development of simulated meats to suggest that they are potentially important competitors, particularly in processing uses - an area of major concern for the Australian meat export industry - and that they are a factor which needs to be taken into account when framing research programmes and policies relating to the production and marketing of natural meat. Simulated meats do not appear to match natural meats in terms of palatability, despite the considerable advances that have been made in simulating flavour and texture. Palatability problems seem to be especially apparent in items derived from the less expensive production processes. 
It appears that any significant competition from simulated meats which may occur will initially take place in processed meat-type products where shortcomings relating to their palatability are less apparent. In particular, processors may make greater use of simulated meats by blending them with natural meats. Blends of this nature are subject to government regulations in major meat consuming countries, but the controls are aimed mainly at ensuring accuracy in labelling rather than at limiting the usage of simulated meats. Increased competition for natural meats in processing uses would be of special significance to Australia because a high proportion of our beef and mutton exports are used for manufacturing purposes. It is evident that at this time it would be to our advantage for the Australian meat industry and the Government to investigate the possibility of the meat industry joining forces With these new proteins and, by using their advantages, promoting meat products on  a  wider front and a more profitable scale. Development is the order of the day, and if the meat industry accepts the challenge of these developments an expansion of animal agriculture, rather than  a  contraction, can be expected. 
Last year the Australian Meat Board looked into canned meat substitutes on sale from both imported and local sources. These substitutes are sold mainly by retailers of vegetarian products. The Board was concerned very much about the word meat' appearing on the cans. I understand that the Board recommended to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that it was desirable that Australia have uniform labelling legislation to ensure that the word 'meat' cannot appear legally on any package unless the package contains a recognised animal meat product. This whole subject should be carefully analysed and looked at by the Government and the meat industry because, although it may not be of very great significance at the present time, in the long term it could be most damaging to one of Australia's great primary industries and export income earners. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Have record crops of oilseed been harvested in Australia? Has this season's crop been successfully marketed overseas? Have overseas prices been in excess of local prices, and could this seriously affect home stocks? 
I would like to bring to the notice of the House tonight a situation which is developing in the textile industry of this country which, of course, is of vital importance to my electorate and also to the electorate which you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  represent as the honourble member for Lyne. The textile industry in Australia employs some 142,000 persons in the manufacture of yarns, textiles, clothing and knitted goods. It is one of the largest decentralised industries in Australia. The huge Bradmill factory which is situated at Rutherford in my electorate, employs 1,200 people at present. In normal circumstances and conditions it employs more than 1,500 people. You,  Sir, represent  the electorate of Lyne in which the huge Courtaulds factory is situated at Tomago near Raymond Terrace. You know only too well,  Sir, that  the executives of Courtaulds are very concerned at the conditions in the industry at present. Other textile mills are situated right in the Hunter Valley at Cessnock and Kurri. These factories also have a big employment complement. 
The textile mills in Australia are concerned with imports of textiles from the cheap labour countries of Singapore where the rate of pay is 24c an hour, including fringe benefits; from Hong Kong where the rate is 20c an hour, including the same benefits; from South Korea where the rate is 8c an hour; and from Taiwan where it is 13c an hour. The rate in Australia is $1.30 an hour. Added to this Australian workers have long service leave benefits and other costs which can be added to this rate. By contrast the Asian workers receive little or no fringe benefits and work much longer hours than the 40-hour week which is adopted in this country. The overtime rates in Asian countries certainly are much different from the Australian rates. It can be readily seen that Asian countries with cheap labour and inferior working conditions can undersell our manufacturers by a big margin unless we protect our large work force which is engaged in the textile manufacturing industry. 
In 1970-71 textiles worth $379m were imported into Australia. Only 3 years ago textile imports totalled $305m. Therefore it can be seen that the increase in imports from Asian countries is very rapid. The increased pressure of textiles from the Orient is most obvious from the following figures: In 1967-68 Mainland China exported textiles worth $14.4m into Australia. In 1970-71 such exports totalled $ 18.5m; in 1967-68 we imported from Taiwan $4.8m worth of textiles and in 1970- 71 the amount was $1 1.4m. From Hong Kong in 1967-68 imports totalled $20. 8m and in 1970-71 the figure was $22.3m. In relation to Japan the figures were $80.9m and $100.2m. Imports from Singapore in 1967-68 were negligible and in 1970-71 they were worth $400,000. The total amount of textiles imported into Australia in 1967-68 was $120.9m and in 1970-71 it was $162.8m. 
It is estimated that the total Australian textile fibre consumption, made up of locally produced and imported yams, fabrics and garments, was 390 million lb in 1967 and it is now running at an annual rate of 500 million lb. It is also estimated that in 1967 40 per cent by weight was locally produced. But this share has now fallen to 35 per cent. The increase in imports is gaining momentum. Recent import figures show that in 1969-70 manmade fibre yarns totalled 23.9 million lb and in 1971-72 33.1 million lb. In the same period knitted fabrics totalled 1.5 million lb and 8.5 million lb. Knitted garments amounted to 5.6 million lb and 36 million lb. The annual rate for 1971-72 is derived from import statistics for the period July 1971 to January 1972. From the figures quoted it is obvious that some means of protection other than the tariff must be found for the Australian textile industry. It is now operating at well below capacity. Only if it can obtain a greater share of the market can it develop efficiently and achieve the economies of scale which result from increased output. It will then continue to provide maximum employment. At present this industry employs about 10 per cent of the work force employed in Australian manufacturing industry. 
These figures conclusively prove that this is a very important matter indeed. Most developed countries in addition to the tariff employ some form of quantitative restriction on textile imports as a means of protection because experience appears to have shown these countries that this is necessary. As the position across the board in the Australian textile industry is becoming serious and as it will affect the employment of people in this great industry it is important and urgent that we as a Government and as a Parliament take immediate steps to investigate the situation with a view to giving protection to the textile industry. This matter is very serious as far as my electorate is concerned because of the employment situation in the Hunter Valley and Newcastle areas. I hope that some investigation is made very quickly into the problem. Unless it is many people will lose their jobs in the textile mills in the areas which I have mentioned. 
I address my question to the Minister for National Development. I ask: Is a representative of Japanese steel mills to visit Australia in the near future? Has the fall-off of steel production in Japan affected Australian exports of coal to that country? Can the Minister advise whether discussions concerning our coal exports will be thoroughly brought to the attention of this Japanese visitor during his visit to Australia? 
I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service whether the latest figures released show considerable improvement in the unemployment position. Has unemployment in country areas of Australia remained static? Has con siderable confidence been restored and will future figures show the same improvement trend? 
1 ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question. Is there a strike of Japanese seamen manning Japanese vessels carrying Australian coking coal and iron ore to Japan? Will this have a serious effect on our exports of these products? Is there any way in which Australia can overcome this urgent shipping problem? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the elimination of beef quotas to the United States of America meant increased sales for Australia? Have sales to Japan and other markets increased considerably? With this upsurge in beef export, has Australia sufficient abattoir and processing plants to cope with this huge increase? Can the Minister advise what the present position is and say whether any plans are being made to increase our processing facilities? 
I rise to support the Bill now before the House which will extend the operation of the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966- 1970 for a further term of 6 months until 31st December 1972 unless an earlier date of cessation is specified by proclamation. Under the existing Act bounty will cease to be payable after 30th June 1972. The Tariff Board has completed an inquiry into the industry, but its report is not expected to be submitted to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  before the expiration of the bounty. The tractor industry in Australia has grown with the wheat boom, lt really received its great impetus in the boom wheat years of 1965 to 1969 when the total number of tractors in this country rose from 295,000 to 323,596, of which 299,297 were wheeltype tractors. It is interesting to note from the latest available figures that the number of tractors as at 31st March 1970 totalled 329,969. 
It is an industry with tremendous fluctuations due to the varying seasons experienced across Australia. Over the past 3 years huge losses have been sustained by tractor and machinery companies operating in Australia. Whilst most tillage and seed planting machinery is manufactured in Australia, and has been for many years, the position with tractors has been very different. Imported models and makes have come into this country mainly from the United States of America, Great Britain, Canada, Italy, Czechoslovakia and other continental areas. No doubt this position was the main reason why the Government in October 1966 brought down the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act to cover tractors manufactured in Australia. We are about to extend the bounty provisions of that Act until the end of this year. 
The first company to manufacture tractors in this country was Chamberlain Industries Pty Ltd of Welshpool Road, Welshpool, Western Australia. The Commonwealth Government encouraged that company by way of subsidy payments. It is interesting to note that from 1st July 1969 to 30th June 1970 that company manufactured 1,779 tractors for which bounty of $992,478 was paid. The value of the tractors on which bounty was paid totalled $7,727,000. The ratio of Australian factory cost to total factory cost was 64 per cent to 79 per cent. The greater the horse power of the tractors produced the larger was the bounty paid by the Government. This practice will be continued under the provisions of the Bill now before the House. For instance, on a 40-horse-power tractor the bounty payable was $600; on a 50-horse-power tractor it was $640; on a 70-horse-power tractor it was $720; on a 80-horse-power tractor it was $760; and on a 90-horse-power tractor it was $800. The horse powers referred to are belt power take off horse power. 
The action of the Government in paying the bounty encouraged this company to manufacture in Australia, thus saving valuable foreign exchange and creating employment for labour and industry in Australia. It helped us to be self sufficient in this very important field. The other large companies importing tractors into Australia were, of course, not entirely happy with the bounty which the Commonwealth Government paid and they certainly said so when the original legislation was introduced. However, the way was open for other companies to manufacture in Australia and the International Harvester Co. of Australia Pty Ltd, with headquarters in Melbourne, Victoria, was not long in following suit. From 1st July 1969 to 30th June 1970 it received from the Government by way of bounty an amount of $764,000 for 1,407 tractors produced at a value of $3. 4m, with the ratio of Australian factory cost to total factory cost being 57 per cent to 83 per cent. In 1971 Chamberlain Industries was paid bounty totalling $848,535 for the 1,333 tractors it manufactured and the International Harvester Co. was paid bounty totalling $537,183 for the 1,147 tractors it manufactured. So both those companies have been helped considerably by the bounty which the Government has paid on the manufacture of tractors in Australia. Chamberlain Industries Pty Ltd formed an amalgamation with the United States of America firm of John Deere and now markets its products under the name Chamber! ain-Deere but it is understood that this new organisation will manufacture tractors at Welshpool and will qualify for the continuation of the bounty under this Bill. 
It is my wish, and that of my colleagues, that more companies operating in this field commence manufacturing tractors in Australia and thus make a contribution to employment in this country and provide  a  work force in this industry. It is felt that this will take place. I support this Bill which provides for payment of a bounty on Australian made tractors up until 31st December 1972 unless an earlier date of cessation is specified by proclamation. 
I direct; .my question to the Minister for Trade and. Industry. Has the Minister seen a statement made by the Managing Director of Bradmill Industries Ltd announcing the closing down of the operations of the company's fabric dye house at Rutherford, which closure will affect the jobs of approximately 100 employees? Have cheap Asian textiles been imported into Australia,  seriously affecting employment ' in this important industry? Can the Minister state what action is being taken by the Government1 to rectify this situation? 
I rise to support the Budget brought down by the Government. It provides for an estimated expenditure of $10,078m, which represents a huge increase over last year's expenditure. It indicates the great growth which is taking place in this country, even taking into consideration the inflationary tendencies. It is a good Budget and has met with acclaim across Australia. When the Budget was introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  we on this side of the House noticed the grim faces of members of the Opposition. It was quite evident that it was a Budget that was good for the people of this country. It is more generous than was expected. Income tax is down; age, invalid, widow and service pensions are up; and the means test has been eased. Indeed, the means test will be eliminated over the next 3 years. This, is excellent news because it will benefit thousands of people in Australia, particularly those people on station properties and elsewhere who have been hard put , to meet their financial obligations. 
Under this Budget it is proposed to increase the limit of permissible income from $10 to $20 a week in the case of a single pensioner and from $17 to $34.50 a week in the case of a married pensioner couple. The homes saving grant will be increased from $500 on savings of $1,500 to $750 on savings of $2,250. This will benefit many young couples who are desirous of building their own. home. Nursing home insurance benefits.! are to be introduced for contributors: to hospital insurance funds. In the field of child care, $5m is to be spent on child minding centres. The exemption limits on estate duty and gift duty have been liberalised. In the education field, there will. be more secondary, university and advanced education scholarships. This is something that we have desired for some time, and it has become a reality under this Budget. Those people involved in this field will be delighted with the increased opportunities for young students to obtain these scholarships. 
Under the Budget income tax has been slashed by an average of 10 per cent. This measure rightly has been designed to favour the low and middle income earners, despite the attempts by the Austraiian Labor Party to reject this fact. Dependants' allowances will be increased by $52, while the minimum taxable income will be raised from $417 to $1,041 per annum. This news has been greeted with enthusiasm and will help the family man and assist in improving the economy. These taxation measures will come into operation on 1st September. Already taxation forms showing the new scale of tax are available in post offices. This shows the Government's concern that the lower tax rates should operate promptly. Honourable members opposite have endeavoured to put up a case to the effect that the resulting increase in wages and salaries will be eaten up by inflation before these measures come into effect. This is sheer nonsense, and salary and wage earners are applauding the prompt action taken by the Government, lt is all right to criticise moves by the Government to reduce taxation and to say that the reduction should have been greater, but the fact is that action of a positive nature has been taken to the extent of approximately $583m. That is some relief, and it has been very well received. 
In the field of social services, the Budget will provide further assistance to all types of pensioners. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has done a magnificent job in research and effort to bring in these increased benefits through the Government and with full acceptance by its supporters. An increase of $1.75 per week in the pension paid to single age and invalid pensioners and widows with children brings the new rate to $20 per week. The combined pension for married -couples has been increased to $34.50 per week, an increase of $2.50. This Government has increased pensions at frequent intervals during the last few years. Only in April of this year pensions were increased by $1, and they were increased last year also. It is &gt;all right for the Opposition to talk about more increases, but the fact is that this Government has been accomplishing these increases. It is introducing them for the benefit of the pensioners. 
Opposition speakers during the Budget debate have been most critical of the number of unemployed in Australia as shown in the latest figures released. The Opposition has been endeavouring to blame the Government for the situation that has arisen by pointing out that 95,733 members of the work force are unemployed. When we look at the situation we find that of these unemployed 33,427 are in New South Wales; 24,037 are in Victoria: 10,050 are in Queensland; 12,136 are in South Australia; 12,537 are in Western Australia; and 3,546 are in Tasmania. The biggest increases in unemployment in this country have taken place in the 3 Labor controlled States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. One would think that the Premiers of the Labor governments in those States would do something about this position. I have no doubt that they wish the figures were 
17902/72-  R~  1301 
much higher. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  and other members on that side of the House have been talking since last year of the prospect of 150,000 and 200,000 being unemployed. This does not do their Party any good and it does not do this Parliament or the nation any good. It indicates to me that they are trying to frighten people into a situation in which there will be a colossal amount of unemployment in this country. 
These people mentioned figures of this nature late last year, as I have mentioned already, and it would appear that they would be in full support of increased unemployment. We on this side of the House are pledged to full employment. For many years we have maintained in this country an employment level of 99 per cent. Now it is down to 98 per cent, which gives concern. However, no doubt this figure is the envy of. most overseas countries whose unemployment figures are far in excess of that operating in this country at the moment. The Government realises that the present rate of employment is not acceptable and it has taken measures to overcome the problem. We have eased monetary conditions, given unemployment relief in non-metropolitan areas, increased State works and housing programmes, and provided for income tax reductions and increased pensions. I was interested to read in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 26th August a letter written by a lady from Moree. It is signed 'J. R. Hobson, Moree'. The letter is headed 'Who wants to work?' and reads: 

 Sir, The headline news on Channel 2 on' 14th August was that there were 100,000 unemployed. 
My son has been advertising m a widely read newspaper for a station hand. The conditions: over award wage: fully furnished, near new house, all electric: meat, milk, power and eggs, all free; school bus to local school, 2 miles. Result: no takers. 
I also approached a professor's daughter in regard to a mother's help- good wages and full keep. She was not interested, she said, as she was drawing unemployment  relief  1  wouldn't  know what it is costing the Government a month for unemployment relief, but it must be considerable. 
There are many positions throughout bur countryside that are not being filled, such as those mentioned in tha: letter which appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. 
It is available to anybody who is interested in seeing it. The reasons for unemployment in Australia can be set down in quite a few ways which are outside the control of the Government. Excessive wage demands being made by the unions are forcing employers in this country to find ways in which to continue in business with a minimum number of employees. Wage increases have been running at the rate of 9 per cent per annum while prices have been increasing at the rate of 7 per cent per annum. This is a clear indication of excessive wage levels. Industrial unrest with unnecessary strikes and stoppages caused by communist-controlled unions has resulted in considerable unemployment. The recent strike by maintenance men employed by the oil companies caused a loss of millions of dollars to the nation and resulted in a big increase in unemployment as many industries and the petroleum distributors who are still having trouble with stocks have had to put staff off. The strike by the Victorian power distribution employees earlier in the year, caused a loss of millions of dollars to the nation and to the men and their families who were affected by it. All these happenings bring another squad of unemployed and loss of confidence in the industry concerned. 
In the country districts of Australia unemployment has been created by the fall in wool prices and 3 drought years which have been experienced in the grain growing areas. These 2 factors have been responsible for the increase in unemployment in rural towns and districts and this trend has carried over to such secondary industries in the cities, as the agricultural machinery manufacturing industry, the automotive industry, the rubber and tyre industries, the iron and steel industry and a host of other. They have been severely affected and will not pick up again until the price of wool recovers and good crops of grain are harvested. This clearly shows that the cities are dependant upon the prosperity of the countryside to lift up their business activity with a resultant increase in job opportunities. This is one of the very good reasons why there has been unemployment and, if the Government were not assisting with grants to country areas, it would be much worse. The working man in Australia would now have his greatest opportunity to provide the necessities of life for himself and his family if it were not for strikes engineered in the main by communistcontrolled unions. It would be in his interests to rid himself of this cancer which has taken over key unions of this country, to get rid of the communist leaders and have good, sane leaders take over, leaders who are prepared to abide by arbitration and get on with the' job of production which is so necessary to our economy. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has mentioned the establishment of a national rural bank. In the . Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  it was announced that S20m would be provided to improve the long term loan position of farmers. This is an initial allocation to be used in facilitating increased availability to farmers of long term loans and the establishment of a national rural bank. This proposal is the result of exhaustive studies by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics into the rural credit supply situation and of talks with primary producers and institutional leaders. Full credit must go to the Government and to the Minister for Primary Industry for instituting this progressive step. The Minister has had conferences wilh the Commonwealth Bank df Australia and private banks on the proposal. Existing institutional advances in excess of $2,100m are outstanding at the present time in the normal banking system and it is apparent that Government funds alone cannot meet the demand in an increasingly capital intensive rural sector. Full details of the national rural bank proposal are yet to be finalised but no doubt the Minister will be giving us the facts and figures in the very near future. Other countries have this type of finance  available to primary producers and with our varying seasonal conditions " across the board it could be the means Of solving credit facilities here. 
It must be remembered that the Commonwealth Development Bank was founded and commenced operations on . 14th January 1960. It was established under the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959 and had as its starting point the assets and liabilities taken over from the industrial finance and mortgage bank departments of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, together with S5m in new capital. That was the equivalent of SI Om. Its total capital at that time was 15,857,000 with 5,428,000 from the mortgage bank department and 5,429,000 from the industrial finance department. I quote those figures to show how this Bank has grown. Today its capital is $61,714,000. I have no doubt that when the rural finance bank is started, with a capital of $20m, it will grow and build in the same way the Development Bank has. 
The Government's policy to reduce the level of estate duty has been widely accepted. This reduction will apply to 95 per cent of dutiable estates and will mean that approximately 50 per cent of all formerly dutiable estates will be totally exempted from duty. The taking of this step follows a long history of representations from rural industry organisations. For many farmers facing a struggle in the near future to provide for the payment of estate duties, the Commonwealth's move will be very welcome. It must be remembered that when the total estate duty bill is added up the Commonwealth's share is less than one-third of the States' tax. Therefore it is hoped that the States will follow suit in this connection. All rural producers will benefit. The thinking behind the Commonwealth's action to reduce estate duties flows from  2  factors. The first is that estate duty exemption limits generally have remained unchanged for all estates since 1963. with the exception of the exemption granted to rural producers in 1970. The second is that rising money values have meant that an increasing number of quite modest estates have become dutiable, thus causing great concern to people on the land who built up studs and other agricultural assets over the years. 
In this Budget all statutory exemptions from estate duty have been doubled. This move means that the cut-off point for primary producers will be $48,000 where the estate passes to close relatives and $24,000 where it passes wholly to others. These exemptions will taper off at the same rate as exemptions for ordinary estates taper off - the complete taper off points for primary producers being $240,000 and $120,000 respectively. I have a table which clearly sets out the new estate duties, the point at which they cut out and the estate duty payable on the various estates. I ask that that table be incorporated in Hansard. 
Can the Minister for Social Services provide any details of the proposal to accelerate the provision of hostel type accommodation in aged persons' homes? When will the necessarylegislation be introduced into the House? 
1 ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Has the price of wool at recent sales shown an upward trend? Is it the opinion of wool industry leaders that further increases could occur? Has the Australian Wool Commission had occasion to purchase at recent sales? Will the Minister inform the House of the up-to-date position particularly in respect of stocks of wool held by the Commission and the clearances being effected? 
1 raise a matter which is giving concern to constituents of mine at Muswellbrook and must also be giving concern to people right throughout the country areas of Australia. I refer to the illness of a young lad, 15 years of age, and the great financial problems which are facing his parents. I will not cite his name or the name of his parents but I have them in correspondence. In December 1967, after a brief illness, a young resident of Muswellbrook in my electorate was flown to Sydney and admitted to the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children for observation. He was at first in the care of a pediatrician, but later was transferred to a neuro-surgeon,  Dr M.  Sofer Schreiber. It was at first thought that he was suffering from a subdural haematoma. He was operated on- for this. A large blood clot was removed in this operation and he recovered. However, after a period of convalescence, it was found that the symptoms had returned and after further investigation a malignent tumour in the pineal area of the brain was diagnosed. 
At this time he was in hospital for 70 days and had 3 major operations. He has since returned to Camperdown each year for revisions of the ventriculo atrial shunt, and has also had to return frequently for examination and tests. This year he has been in hospital twice in Sydney and is at the moment a patient in the Muswellbrook District Hospital where he has been for 3 weeks. The costs involved in long term illnesses such as this are severe and whilst the hospital charges are covered by the medical benefits fund for accommodation, the extras are not. For example, for a consultation by a specialist surgeon for which he was charged $25, the return by the fund was only $8.50. For a fee of $87 by an anaesthetist, the refund was only $12.80. 
The point to be made in this case, however, is that apparently no provision exists whereby taxation deductions can be claimed for the very necessary costs involved in taking a patient to Sydney for this treatment. It is not possible to get this sort of care at any other place except, of course, in other capital cities. It is necessary to take the child by car or train as the local doctor in most cases does not consider the use of any ambulance justified and, as in the main there are numerous conferences with the surgeon, it is not practical for the parent to return home. So he or she requires accommodation adding to the already heavy cost. 
I consider that country people are in a very disadvantageous position when confronted with such a situation. Some form of relief should be provided in the tax laws of the cost involved in seeking treatment in such cases. I bring this important matter to the attention of this House and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  in the hope that he will consider amending the legislation so as to give financial relief to parents who find themselves in such a situation. In this lad's case the position is without much hope. The tumour is inoperable due to its location and no chemical cure appears to be available. The parents of this boy have approached me and asked me to take this matter up with the Government not only on their behalf but also on behalf of many other country parents who are caught in the same situation. This is a very serious problem for these parents who are paying taxes only to find that the costs of this serious illness are taking all their ready money. They are finding it difficult to carry out. I commend this matter for the attention of the Government. 
I support the 2 Bills before the House and congratulate the. Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the Government on their introduction. They have been met right across Australia with acclaim and I feel sure that this is why so little opposition has been expressed to the legislation. This indicates clearly that the legislation is good and that there are very few points in it which could be opposed by the Opposition. J feel that the Bills will be of great benefit to the aged persons and will assist those wonderful citizens who have, in many instances, taken on the responsibility of looking after aged persons homes and, in particular, those, people looking after the hostel type accommodation. Several of these homes are situated in my electorate and they are conducted by dedicated citizens who have, over the years, battled financially to keep them going. The 2 homes to which I refer are the Maitland Benevolent Society at Maitland, which the Minister recently visited with me, and the 
Elizabeth Gates Memorial Homes at Singleton. They are both very fine institutions doing a magnificent job with local committees of dedicated people. This legislation will be of inestimable value to these organisations and to their inmates. 
I also pay tribute to the service clubs, the Returned Services League and the public generally who have given support to enable many of these homes to remain financially sound and to provide services and attention for the aged folk. The legislation that we are presently debating will be of great benefit to those already existing institutions. A visit to such homes is always an enlightening experience. To see at first hand the accommodation and comforts provided for the aged inmates and to see their independence and contentment gives a visitor an appreciation of the wonderful work being performed in this most important field. As has been stated by the Minister, the Government's programme in this fi eld will be administered partly by the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  The proposals with which the Minister for Social Services is concerned provide for an increase in the subsidy paid to non-profit homes caring for people over 80 years of age and a 3-year crash programme to provide more hostel-type accommodation in line with our aged persons homes organisation. 
Australians are living longer these days. More aged people are in need of accommodation than ever before. It is interesting to note that in 1950 there were 211,081 people over 75 years of age; in 1960 there were 275,940 people over age 75 and 120,832 people over 80 years of age. By 1970 there had been a tremendous increase to 380,481 people over age 75 and 178,041 people over 80 years of age. These figures draw attention to the fact that it is necessary to look after the aged people. Under this Bill the present rate of subsidy payable to eligible organisations providing personal care services for the frail aged in hostel-type accommodation will be doubled. It is a condition of approval that personal care services be provided for any aged resident who needs such services whether he or she be over 80 years of age or not. 
It is extremely interesting to note that at present a subsidy is being paid to 360 homes of hostel-type accommodation caring for over 16,000 aged persons, nearly 700 of whom are 80 years of age and over. Last year's subsidy in this field was to the order of $1.8m. With the increased costs of running hostel-type homes it has become necessary to increase the rate of payment from $5 to $10 a week and it has been pleasing to hear the Minister announce that this increased payment will be available from the first pay day after the Bill receives the royal assent. Therefore let there be no delay in the passing of this legislation. I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  echo these sentiments. Surely this increased payment of $10 a week will be an incentive to the establishment of more hostel-type accommodation. It will cost the Government, on present figures, $14m in a full year. This figure, of course, may be substantially increased depending on the demand for hostel-type accommodation under the crash programme. This Bill is a practical application of the Government's desire to improve the health, contentment and well-being of aged persons. 
I would like to say a few words on the Aged Persons Hostels Bill which provides additional hostel-type accommodation for aged persons. Announcement of this measure was made originally in the Budget Speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the passage of the Bill is being handled by the Minister for Social Services today. The assistance provided to non-profit organisations for building since 1957 has been on a $2 for $1 basis, and the total assistance given by the Government in this field to date totals over $150m. This is surely a magnificant contribution to this sector of the social welfare field. It demonstrates too the success of the policy adopted by the Government. I have witnessed many aged persons homes being built under this plan in country areas and in each instance great success has been achieved, I have already mentioned that local committees have been formed on a purely non-profit, voluntary basis and have given splendid service. 
It was interesting to hear the Minister state in his second reading speech that of our 834,000 age pensioners over 519,000, or 62 per cent, live in their own homes. Of course, it would be a wonderful situation if that could be arranged to a greater extent. 
State housing authorities and unsubsidised hostels provide for a further 25,000 people while 40,000 people live in commercially operated nursing homes. Some are living with relatives under excellent conditions. However, it is estimated that 50,000 pensioners may be living under unsatisfactory or poor standard conditions and paying high rent. It is these people for whom the Government is endeavouring to provide. There are long waiting lists with the organisations providing hostel-type accommodation under the Aged Persons Homes Act. This Bill will give some existing organisations the right to construct new hosteltype accommodation from wholly Commonwealth funds; that is, they need not touch their own resources. 
For 2 very good reasons I feel that the Government has been very fair in its adoption of this procedure. Firstly, the institutions have already contributed a fair share by providing beds themselves before the present subsidy became effective. Secondly, the institutions have no need to prove their bona fides, because their actions over the years have given undoubted proof of it. The new accommodation to be provided under this crash programme is all to be of hostel-type and no capital donation will be required from the occupants. The accommodation is to be allocated on the basis of need and the Minister today gave a very detailed account of the regulations that will apply in this regard. The Bill also provides grants of up to $250 for each person towards the cost of furnishing these homes. These 2 Bills will be of great benefit to aged people right across Australia and clearly spell out the Government's regard and concern for the welfare of the aged. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. The Minister will have read reports of experiments with the use of methanol in petrol to replace lead additives. Can the Minister give the House any information regarding the alleged advantages of using methanol? 
This year's figures for the expenditure of the Department of Primary Industry are down considerably on the figures for last year. This has been brought about by the drop in devaluation compensation and the lowering of the cheese subsidy. This year the proposed expenditure is about $78,646,000 as against $103,797,219 last year. It is interesting to ascertain the reasons for the considerable drop in the expenditure of this Department. However, I wish to speak about the record export earnings from the production of Australian meat during 1971-72. On examination of the huge export it is seen that over $543m worth of beef, veal, mutton, lamb and fancy and canned meats was sold overseas in the 12 months to 30th June this year. That was an increase of $131m on the newly revised 1970-71 total of $4 12m which in itself was a record. 
When we examine our best customers for Australian meats we find that the United States of America was the leader in this field, it bought meat worth almost $280m from us in 1971-72 and over $260m represented purchases of beef - a total of 260,000 tons. Those of us who have been interested in the export meat trade in this country were delighted recently when the United States relinquished its quota system on Australian meat imported into that country. I hope that our primary producers will be able to take advantage of the increased trade which will be offering on the United States market. Japan was our second best customer with purchases worth some $78.0m including almost $45m worth of beef and $27. 5m worth of mutton. Japan was our biggest single customer for mutton and also for pig meats, which were worth $2.1m. This Japanese market is expanding rapidly. It is a quality market. In my electorate we have some extremely large feed lots which are providing quality cattle for this Japanese market. It is good to see that our Department of Trade and Industry and our Department of Primary Industry are doing all they possibly can to assist in this field. 
The third best customers for our great meat trade was the United Kingdom which purchased beef worth $34.6m, mutton worth $7.1m, lamb worth $5. 5m as wall as fancy meats worth $10m and canned meats worth SI 4.4m. The United Kingdom was the major buyer of Australian lamb. The total United Kingdom purchases of all meats exceeded S71.7m. So the United Kingdom is still a very important market for our meats despite the fact that it is entering the European Economic Community. Experts coming back from the European Economic Community are advising us here in Australia that the Community will offer a great market for Australian meats in the future. It is estimated that by 1980 the European Economic Community will be in the market for 600,000 tons of beef, which cannot be supplied by the countries in that area. So Australia must gain a good share of that trade. I have no doubt that the leaders of our primary industries, the Department of Primary Industry and our trade agencies throughout the world are making every effort to foster and develop our trade in the European Economic Community in relation to the supply of beef. So the situation with regard to the supply of meat to overseas customers is very bright indeed. 
Recently 1 asked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a question concerning Australia's capacity to process the meat needed by overseas markets. 1 was informed by him that we had sufficient abattoirs and meat processing plants in Australia to cater for this increased trade, provided we had limited industrial troubles. I was very delighted to hear that news because, being interested in the industry myself, I was of the opinion that, with the huge development taking place, we might not have adequate meat works in this country to process the meat which we could sell overseas. Most of our meat works are very up to date. They have had to be brought up to date to meet the very stringent hygienic conditions imposed by the United States Department of Agriculture for the export of meat to that country. The Japanese also have demanded a very high standard of hygiene. So, although our works have been strained to the utmost financially to cope with this situation, they have done so and in the long run this will be of great advantage to Australia and to the meat industry. The meat industry is Australia's third largest primary industry export earner. It is headed only by the wool industry, which brought in $588m last financial year, and, surprisingly, the cereal grains industry, which earned for Australia $623,247,000. The meat industry has a very bright outlook. The Australian Government, through the Department of Trade and Industry, the Department of Primary Industry and the Australian Meat Board, has opened up markets all over the world and has done a grand job for this country. As our lamb production increases there is no doubt that markets will be found for the exportable surplus. 
I would like to refer also to the subject of tariffs. I heard the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  speak in this chamber tonight on the problems in his electorate. I have similar problems. I would like to congratulate the Government for its action recently in increasing the tariff on cheap Asian textiles coming into this country. This has had a steadying effect and a very helpful effect on our own textile industry. More than 140,000 people are employed in the textile industry in Australia. Most of them are employed in country areas in the various States. It is a decentralised industry. Those of us who are interested in full employment are anxious to ensure that Australian labour is kept going in this industry. But the textiles industry is under very severe competition from Asian countries which pay only 20c, 30c or 50c an hour for labour. It was extremely good to see the Tariff Board make a recommendation to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in this respect and to see him agree to the placing of increased tariffs on cheap imports. This has been most beneficial. It has stabilised the industry. In my electorate I have the huge Bradmill textile industry at Rutherford which employs 1,200 men. It is a very important economic factor for the centre of Maitland. We have to ensure that our Australian work force in the textile industry is kept fully employed. As I have said, the textile industry is a decentralised industry, a large employer of labour and makes a great economic contribution to this country. 
1 have been amazed at exaggerated statements being made by members of the Opposition concerning the employment situation in Australia, particularly in view of the fact that the worst situation exists in the Labor held States of Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. Recent statistics have indicated that these States have shown the greatest percentage increase in unemployment. One would think that these Labor Governments would do something about this situation. It was extremely interesting to read an article in last night's Sydney 'Sun'. The article was headed 'Jobs - But No Takers' and stated: 
Latest unemployment figures released by the Federal Government have employer groups baffled. 
The official figures painted last month as the blackest August for employment since 1961. 
But the New South Wales Employers' Federation says many industries just cannot find labour. 
The federation's assertion is confirmed by 'The Sydney Morning Herald's' classified advertising section. 
On Saturday 18th September last year, the Herald' carried 5,033 positions vacant ads. 
On the corresponding Saturday this year, there were 5,321 - jobs advertised - 268 more than in 1971. 
The Federation's executive director,  Mr J.  Darling, said today, 'There is a very definite shortage of manpower for skilled and semi-skilled jobs throughout New South Wales. 
The official forecast is that all the school leavers will be absorbed into employment by the end of the year. 
This is contrary to past experience which has shown that school leavers have never been employed until March of the following year.' 
Executive director of the New South Wales Retail Traders' Association,  Mr J.  B. Griffin, said, I am not aware of any abundance of employees. 1 am sure, however, that there are plenty of people available for work but the question is whether they are suited for particular jobs.' 

 Mr Griffin said the Government figures 'surprised' him. 
He said, 'The general feeling is that there has been an upturn in the economy and the business community in general is confident that there will be a progressive improvement. 
Yet these figures show a trend the other way.' 
The New South Wales Minister for Labour and Industry,  Mr Hewitt,  said today unemployment figures were inflated by some people being 'choosy about what jobs they will take.' 
In my own electorate the position has improved considerably despite the fact that very dry seasonal conditions exist. Inquiries made at branches of the Department of Labour and National Service in various centres in the electorate do not reveal any panic or great numbers coming forward seeking employment. In fact, 1 know of many men on the land and in business who have advertised for employees but have not received even one applicant. The unemployment situation is grossly exaggerated. 
The Budget brought down by the Government is proving most successful from an employment point of view. It has increased business activity and created confidence for employers to increase their staff. Country areas of Australia have been seriously affected by poor seasonal conditions and, with a downturn of purchases of machinery, trucks and the usual farming equipment, there has been a falling off in manufacture and supply sources with, of course, a laying off of staff. Although the rural sector is patchy there has been an improvement which is reflected in improved employment figures. The latest figures, for August, show 96,805 unemployed which represents 1.73 per cent of the work force. When compared with overseas countries, although we do not like to see unemployment in Australia and want full employment, our figures are the lowest on record except possibly for Japan and 
West Germany which have 1.3 per cent of their work forces unemployed. The United Kingdom has 4.2 per cent of its work force unemployed, Canada 7.7 per cent, the United States of America 6.4 per cent, Austria 3.2 per cent and Belgium 3.6 per cent. In comparison we more than hold our own with these countries. 
We have heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  quote figures out of the air of some 200,000 unemployed by Christmas and the shadow Treasurer, the member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  suggest 150,000 unemployed by Christmas. Late last year members opposite were quoting the above figures to apply in the first quarter of this year, but this was a gross miscalculation as are the statements again being uttered in this field. There are strong signs that unemployment is picking up and, of course, this does not suit the political feelings of the Opposition. The Government is pledged to full employment and has proved that it is prepared to help stricken rural areas with dollars. In the recent Budget it has shown a progressive, confident and realistic outlook in respect of the lower and middle income groups, with increased employment opportunities for Australians. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry whether recent tariff action taken by the Government has improved the economic and unemployment situation in the Australian textile industry. Did the Tariff Board further inquire into the textile tariffs early this year? Can the Minister inform the House of the present position in the textile industry? 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry: Has Australia opened many new overseas meat markets? Did our exports as at 30th June constitute an export record? Can the Minister inform the House of the present performance and of our potential in relation to meat exports? 
I rise to support the proposed expenditure of $68,024,000. I note that this is somewhat more than the expenditure in 1971-72 which totalled $62,645,585. The total amount for 1970-71 was $77,344,000, and for 1969-70 it was $78,055,000. The proposed expenditure this year is an average yearly expenditure by the Department of Immigration. I would like to confirm the remarks made by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  about the officers of the Immigration Department overseas. As a member of a parliamentary delegation last year I was able to see at first hand the methods of our immigration officers in Turkey, Yugoslavia, Great Britain, Ireland, Greece and some other countries. I was most impressed with the types of men we had there and with their methods of interviewing and consulting future citizens of this country. I also support the remarks made by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  I will deal with that in a few moments. 
The policy of the Government this year provides for an intake of 140,000 migrants. Certainly the intake is down on previous years. There are no doubt reasons for this, amongst them being the unemployment we have in our country. But I have no doubt that these figures will increase as this position rights itself. Assisted passages will be provided for 90,000 at a cost of $29.6m. I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Scullin mention in his short address this afternoon that we can be selective with our intake of migrants, because Australia must surely be a land of great opportunity for anyone who is prepared to apply himself to the task of establishing himself in this great country and taking advantage of the great opportunities that exist for him and his children. It is to these children that Australia can really look for future Australians with our outlook on life and who are used to Australian conditions. 
We must see that migrants coming to this country are carefully screened, because there is no doubt that we desire to prevent undesirable types arriving here. If I could be critical of our past immigration policy it would be in this sector. I feel that we have not screened and investigated backgrounds of many migrants entering Australia over past years. We must tighten up our security and our investigation in this field. Whilst our check up on health regulations has been first class, I feel that in the screening of migrants we have fallen down. This has been evidenced by the problems that have been experienced over the past twelve or eighteen months. Our interviewing officials overseas must make careful checks of previous character and background. There is no doubt that in past years undesirable characters have arrived, and some overseas countries must have been very happy to get rid of some of them. Of course we must attract migrants. The growth of this country for the past 25 years has been due to our success in attracting migrants. We must continue to bring to Australia migrants of a suitable nature to help us to expand and develop. In the past 3 years immigration programmes reached considerably higher levels than previously. During that time more than 500,000 settlers arrived in Australia. In these years migrants of a high standard have joined our community. The various skills and professions have been widely represented. 
Our nation has been built by migrants and we have not yet ceased to build. Perhaps in the future we will no longer need to build and will no longer need migrants but that situation lies in the future and has no practical significance for our time. Public debate on a matter as important as immigration is essential. The Government has clearly stated its policy so that the community can formulate informed views on future immigration. Australia has critics of our immigration policy. This is not new. In the main the criticism is that immigration inhibits economic growth, that our programmes are based merely on getting numbers and ignoring quality. This is one of the main subjects for debate. Some critics regard immigration as the cause of pollution, the urban sprawl, inflation and so on. At times critics give the impression that they believe that immigration is the root cause of everything wrong in Australia and that Australia alone suffers from these problems. They are strangely illinformed. 
The problems of the urban sprawl, pollution and so on are world wide and are not even solely the result of affluence and technological change. The solution to these problems lies in a communal effort to avoid the patterns of behaviour leading to them. Our immigration programme takes into account changes in the employment situation, availability of housing and accommodation, balance of the sexes, worker dependent patterns, and factors bearing on the successful integration of migrant groups. This involves very close co-operation between a number of government departments, particularly the Department of Labour and National Service. 
I would like more migrants to come into our great country areas. I have no doubt that there are many good reasons why that trend is not occurring. Most migrants seem to live in the cities and this does not prevent troubles which are often witnessed at sporting fixtures and other community efforts. In my electorate are quite a number of migrants. They are mainly situated in the industrial towns such as Maitland, many of them working the coal mining industry, in the erection of power houses, using their skills in a technical field. In the countryside generally there are very few migrants. Most migrants in their native countries were city dwellers, or if they were farmers they lived close to a city. I suppose it is only natural that when they arrive in Australia they wish to take up residence in a city or close to a city. This is a great pity. Australia would benefit if we could obtain more migrants suitable to help us to develop our great country towns and country areas. Decentralisation is necessary and there is a great deal of talk about it. We need a steady flow of migrants coming to this country. They are essential for our development. I support the estimates of the Department of Immigration. 
I rise to support the estimates for the Department of Housing, which provide for an appropriation of $7,989,000 this year as against an expenditure last financial year of $7,434,378. It ls quite evident that housing is one of the most important problems facing the people of Australia and, of course, the governments, both State and Federal, which are elected by these people. At the present time housing is a bright spot in the Australian economy, despite continually rising costs, which remain a disturbing feature. The current favourable situation has been brought about mainly by the record availability of housing finance. An examination of the figures for the March quarter will reveal that the trading banks increased the number of housing loans substantially during that period. Nevertheless there was a small fall in [he volume of home building activity as compared with the position in the December quarter. The overall position for the March quarter showed that commencements were up by 1 per cent and private commencements were up by 2 per cent, but Government sector commencements throughout Australia were down by 9 per cent. From information I have received in response to inquiries I have made it would appear that there are adequate supplies of building materials but that there has been an increase in the number of registered unemployed during the March quarter as compared with the last quarter of 1971. 
I would like to pay a tribute to the. co-operative building societies, both the permanent and terminating societies, for the contribution they have made over the years to the provision of homes for young married people at interest and instalment rates which they are. able to meet. Over the past 2 years there has been a changing demand for housing finance in this field. As the  Chairman  of 8 terminating societies I have, along with my fellow directors, experienced this trend. The demand has been strong in some periods but it has fallen away in others. The demand for housing at present is very strong. There appears to have been a sudden upsurge of confidence in the Government and in the home building sector. Banks and insurance companies have been the (financial source for terminating building societies. The same source plus public funds caters for the permanent building societies. Of course, the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement provides millions of dollars for low and middle class accommodation in the various States. In some States the government housing needs have fallen considerably but in others the demand is still very heavy. 
I mentioned a moment ago the great contribution that is being made in the field of housing finance by the permanent building societies. On looking at the figures for 1971, I found that the permanent building societies provided accommodation to the value of $266. 9m towards home owners in this country. That is a magnificent record. New South Wales - at $ 129.4m - was the State which availed itself most of permanent building society funds. They have made a great contribution to the providing of building finance in this country. The Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement has been a most successful arrangement under which the Commonwealth Government works in co-operation with the State governments in making houses and finance available to State governments. An examination of the figures in this respect will reveal that they are of a great magnitude indeed and that this finance is of great assistance to the housing industry. 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was speaking of the great assistance that the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement had been to the government sector of housing in this country. It is interesting to note the amounts of money that have been made available to the States under this Agreement from 1st July 1965 to 30th June 1970. In New South Wales the amount received has been of the order of $669m, in Victoria $566m, Queensland $179m, South Australia $25 lm, Western Australia $168m and Tasmania $86m, for a total of $1,921,535,000. These amounts indicate the immensity of the programme which has been made possible by the Commonwealth in co-operation with the State governments. 
I heard the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  say tonight that housing commission homes are like boxes. When the Liberal-Country Party Government took office in New South Wales in April 1965 it altered the situation that had previously existed and changed the design of housing commission homes. I am proud to say that in that State housing commission homes today are of first class design and are much sought after. The applicants who have received accommodation under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement for the same period in New South Wales number 113,572, in Victoria 87,000, in Queensland 32,000, in South Australia 46,000, in Western Australia 30,000 and in Tasmania 12,000 for a total of 322,417. This is a very fine performance. It shows what can be done with co-operation between the Federal and State governments. 
Recent changes made in the Homes Savings Grant Act will be most helpful to young people building homes. I congratulate the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  on the great job he has done in increasing the amount of the grant made available. The maximum value of a home which may attract a grant has been increased from $17,500 to $22,500. The maximum grant has been increased from $500 on a saving of $1,500 to $750 on a saving of $2,250. The homes savings grant scheme has been most successful, and with the increase in the grant it will be increasingly so. Between the time the homes savings grant scheme was introduced on 24th July 1964 and 30th June 1972 close to 249,000 married couples throughout Australia have received financial assistance from the Commonwealth towards the cost of acquiring their first matrimonial home. Savings accumulated by eligible persons during the qualifying period for a grant have during that time helped to provide finance to other prospective young home owners through banks and building societies, the main sources of institutional finance for private housing. From the inception of the scheme to 30th June 1972 some 248,922 grants amounting to $108,091,000 were approved. Expenditure from the National Welfare Fund has amounted to $107,827,000. Surely this is a great effort and a tremendous advantage to young people requiring housing accommodation. 
I have had a look at the amendment moved by the Opposition. I certainly do not go along with it because the Opposition wants to put land on a leasehold basis similar to that operating in Canberra, where the price of land has gone sky high and out of everybody's reach. The Opposition wants to ensure that electricity wiring is placed underground. This is a very expensive activity. I know, as a former  chairman  of a county council, that it is desirable but it increases the costs sky high. If we have the uniformity of building costs which the Opposition suggests, we will get back to the old box type housing commission homes. So I reject the amendment entirely. 
I desire to direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. 1 ask: Is there a danger of wool pricing itself out of the market? Can the Minister explain the reason for the violent price fluctuations? Does he see a threat to wool from competition from synthetics under the present situation? Will the Minister explain the position as he sees it? 
I ask the Minister for National Development: Has harvesting of grain commenced in Queensland and in the north west of New South Wales? Did the recent shortage of petrol in these areas give serious concern to primary producers? Has this shortage been overcome and what in general will be the future supply of fuel for the valuable wheat harvest shortly to be commenced? Can the Minister state the present position? 
I wish to take part in the debate on the estimates for the Department of National Development. 1 support the appropriation of $43,549,000 to this Department, which compares more than favourably with the expenditure of $39,370,543 last financial year. Because, the Department of National Development covers such a very extensive area of development in Australia, including the petroleum, mining and gas fields, it would not be possible for me in the time available to comment on everything. Therefore. I have selected the petroleum exploration and development section of the national development field in Australia for my comments. 
Petroleum produces something like 48.6 per cent of Australia's primary energy. Finds of petroleum at Barrow Island, Moonie and in the Bass Strait have made a great impact on our economy and have saved Australia millions of dollars in foreign exchange. It is essential to keep a very active programme of exploration and drilling activities in Australia as certain producing fields are showing signs of the possibility of a reduced production. Our petroleum demands are increasing all the time. I am referring to our demands for motor spirit, aviation turbine fuel, heating oil, automotive distillate and fuel oil, to say nothing of the great demands for lubricating oils. 
Following an investment of approximately 31,00m to find and bring existing reserves of oil and gas into production. Australia now stands seventeenth internationally as an oil producer. Some 120 million barrels of oil are now being produced each year. Eighty per cent of it is coming from the 2 very prolific and well located fields off the coast of Victoria. They produce some 300,000 barrels a day. 
Barrow Island produces some 50.000 barrels a day, whilst 2 small Queensland fields produce some 3,000 barrels a day. Great concern is held in this field because it is quite evident that the supply from Moonie is very much on the decline. Looking ahead, it is apparent that the present producing fields will be able to produce of the general order of 137 million barrels a year until 1980 and, probably for the next decade, at 100 million barrels a year, but that they will decline to a third of that figure by 1990. 
Let us have a look at the demand side. The Department of National Development predicts that Australia's crude oil consumption will be 250 million barrels a year in 1975, 350 million barrels a year in 1980 and 450 million barrels a year in 1985. The current consumption is about 190 million barrels a year. Next year we will be about 75 per cent self sufficient in known oil. In 1975 we will be about 65 per cent self sufficient; in 1980 we will be about 35 per cent self sufficient; and in 1985 we will be about 20 per cent self sufficient. Those figures speak for themselves. It is obvious to the layman that Australia must have an active exploration and drilling programme lined up so that it can meet future demands with confidence and save, as I have already mentioned, millions of dollars in foreign exchange. In times of war it will also give us security to have our own petroleum supply. Looking back we find that some SI. 000m has been invested in exploration to provide, in 1971-72, a $300m cash flow, thus saving S60m on the present overseas landed cost of imported similar petroleum. 
The cutback in oil exploration in Australia in recent years may be reversed this year. Off-shore exploration activity appears to be recovering steadily. On-shore it is expected that more wells will be put down this year. There must be a minimum level of activity to justify the contractors keeping equipment in this country. Last year a few oil rigs left this country and went to our neighbours in Indonesia because there were not sufficient programmes for them to be maintained and employed in exploration in this country. That situation is to be deplored. It would appear that the position is now being rectified. 
We recently witnessed in this country a drastic strike in the petroleum refining industry, one that nearly paralysed the everyday and commercial life of even' one of us. It  occurred  in the maintenance section of the industry. Many key industries came to a standstill. In its recent annual report and balance sheet the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd disclosed that S25m of its gross income was lost by the shut-down of the Esso-BHP field in Bass Strait. Other oil companies operating in this country lost $1Om in sales and production. We are still feeling the effects of this unnecessary strike, particularly in northern New South Wales and Queensland where harvesting is in operation. There is a shortage of petrol - mainly of super grade petrol which comprises 80 per cent of the market in this country. What a time to have a strike of national importance on our hands, when the grain is about to be harvested. We have had droughts in this country and we want to get what little grain there is harvested as quickly as possible. 
There is no doubt that the petrol strike could have threatened, and may still threaten, the possibility of harvesting this grain promptly. As I said, for such a strike to occur at harvest time is a crime. We must instil some commonsense into our key unions which appear to be and which are no doubt communist controlled. The shortage is so acute as a result of the strike that the oil industry in Australia has arranged for tankers to come from the Persian Gulf to overcome our problem. In Australia we have spent millions of dollars developing crude oil resources and we find that we are thrown to the wolves by the irresponsible action of these communist controlled unions. 
I want to refer briefly to the fact that the present Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz)  has done a magnificent job in this field. He has visited all the major industrial undertakings, the major oilfields, the mining fields and the gas fields in this country. Through his efforts and those of his Department the total expenditure provided under the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act has now reached SI 13,998m. Under his direction great development has occurred in the mining industry and in the petroleum industry in Australia. But we must watch this position carefully. We must see that adequate exploration work is going on in the petroleum industry in Australia, which is so important from a defence point of view and from a foreign exchange point of view. I am pleased to have taken part in this debate and to have brought to light this particular section of industry which I feel is of essential benefit to Australia. 
I ask the Minister for the Army: To what extent does the Army specify the use of wool in preference to other fabrics for uniforms and clothing? 
I rise to support the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Bill 1972 brought down by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in this chamber last night. The Bill provides for the control of foreign takeovers of certain Australian companies. We in Australia want to see investment here helping to develop our resources. We need developmental money, money building new industries but not money coming in for portfolio investment purposes or takeovers, or money really adding nothing to our economy but giving foreign people ownership of Austraiian property. We must see that future generations of Australians are left as owners and not tenants of the great assets in this country. The inflow of capital from abroad has been an important factor in the Australian economic scene throughout the post-war period. It has at various times been acclaimed and decried. Controversy over the matter has reached certain peaks in the past, but the general interest in the subject has heightened over time, and I might say that the interest has been very keen during the past 12 months. However the very high level of capital inflow and takeovers of certain Australian companies over the past 2 years has given rise to growing concern. With the trend in capital inflow strongly upwards the volume of production, employment and income generated by overseas interests in Australia has steadily increased. These developments have given concern to those framing Australian economic policy and policy in fields going beyond those that are strictly economic. 
Surveys conducted by the Commonwealth Statistician indicate that direct ownership and control of about 25 per cent of Australian manufacturing industries rests with overseas companies while approximately 50 per cent of the value of mining excluding petroleum production in 1968 was accounted for by overseas owned and controlled establishments. On examination of the position, overseas participation in manufacturing might not have increased greatly over recent years. Foreign ownership and control in the mining industry have certainly increased greatly. No direct information is available from official sources on foreign participation in other sectors of the economy. Overseas ownership and control of rural industries is small except in the Northern Territory, northern Queensland and certain parts of Western Australia. In oil exploration and produc tion overseas interests are substantial, probably accounting for more than onehalf of the value of exploration expenditure and oil production. Overseas participation in Australian tertiary industries is variable. It is extensive in finance, property and oil distribution but limited in transport, storage and communication. There is no foreign participation in most areas of public investment such as the provision of hospitals, schools, water supplies and railways. 
Overseas investors are now precluded from direct entry into few areas of economic activity, for instance, banking - the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  mentioned the Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd which of course is an English concern - radio and television broadcasting and domestic airlines. In recent years the extent of overseas holdings ir few individual companies has been restricted by Commonwealth legislation. I refer to MLC Ltd. Restrictions were placed on that company in this chamber several years ago. I refer also to APA Holdings Ltd, Queensland Mines Ltd and Kathleen Investments (Australia) Ltd. No comprehensive measures of the overall extent of foreign ownership and control of Australian enterprises are available. Companies have been the main source of overseas investments, but inquiries and research have ascertained that in 1969-70 approximately one-third of the Australian corporate sector was owned overseas. It certainly appears that the degree of foreign ownership has increased rather rapidly since the mid-1960s. Because of the predominance of Australian ownership in the unincorporated sector, overseas ownership of Australian business as a whole wo llc be substantially under 33 per cent. However it is essential that the Australian Government should have the legislative powers to exercise control over foreign takeovers of companies, and this Bill before the House will take care of this situation which has developed. 
This Bill provides for the control of foreign takeovers of companies. As has already been stated, proposals for such controls were announced by the Prime Minister in a statement to this House on 26th September last concerning overseas investment in Australia. The Prime Minister also stated in this announcement that departmental machinery would be set up to examine takeovers for foreign interests, and this machinery has been put into operation with a group of departmental officers who have been examining national interest aspects of certain takeover propositions. This has been prompt action by the Prime Minister and the Government of this country. 
The Bill will give Government control over foreign takeovers and will spell out to the business world clear procedures to be followed in such cases. It will provide overseas companies with rules in regard to foreign investment in Australia and should remove any doubts or uncertainties that they may have. At the present time the propaganda and the various articles that have appeared in the Press concerning foreign investments in Australia have been received overseas in varying ways, but this Bill will set out the rules clearly, and overseas investors will know where they stand when they are investing money in this country. The underlying principle in the legislation is to prevent takeovers that are against the national interest. We must see that the interests of Australian investors are not prejudiced except only when the national interest requires it 
Of importance to business concerns is that the Government does not propose to apply the legislation to companies unless their assets exceed $lm. Nevertheless there is a safeguard in the Act whereby the Minister retains the right to interfere where special circumstances apply to companies of a smaller nature. The 2 main powers set out in the Bill are concise and clear. The Minister has power to make an order prohibiting a foreign takeover proposal, whatever its form, from being implemented if the Minister is satisfied that it would be against the national interest. The second power will enable the Minister to limit the interests that a foreign concern or group of interests may have in a selected company. These are effective powers which will prevent the possibility of some alternative proposition which could have the same ultimate effect. 
In his second reading speech and in his statement of 26th September the Prime Minister clearly indicated that an independent authority would be set up to deal with foreign takeovers. This Bill does not provide for this authority which will be the subject of a separate Bill in the next Parliament. This action is necessary as time does not permit the legislation to be introduced at this juncture. It is a Bill which will require careful drafting and consideration. The present Bill, however, will give control over foreign takeovers until such independent authority is set up. The Government has power in both cases to make the final decision on whether a takeover should proceed. The Government, of course, will be guided by the rules outlined in this legislation. 
It is interesting to note that a takeover may be regarded as against the national interest if the company concerned is considered by the Government, first, to be an economically strategic industry leader or, secondly, to be so large that the takeover would significantly affect the relative balance of Australian ownership and control of the industry concerned. Other factors are taken into account and applied to other foreign takeovers. Would the takeover either directly or indirectly affect production, prices, the quality of products and services, efficiency and technological change sufficiently to justify the increased degree of foreign control of the particular industry that would result from the takeover? Many other most comprehensive factors are to be taken into account. These factors are consistent with Australia's interests and include such matters as exports, imports, research and development and industrial relations. It must be considered whether the takeovers would have adverse effects on Australia's defence, environmental protection and regional development. These are most important matters. These are all wide fields. Under this Bill the Government will have power to determine whether to control foreign takeovers or otherwise. It will help to preserve Australian assets whilst not doing away with foreign investment opportunities. I support the Bill. 
Has the Minister for Labour and National Service seen Press reports of the statement made by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions that the Government's policy on the 35-hour week is designed to set Australian against Australian and that the Government has tried to make this a divisive issue? Will the Minister make clear to the House that the introduction of a 35-hour week at this time would have a disastrous effect upon the economy, particularly the rural economy? 
I ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Army: Is it a fact that the $27m "3rd Training Battalion camp at Singleton, New South Wales, is not being used to anywhere near its capacity? Is this due to compulsory national service being discontinued? Can the Minister inform the House as to the future plans for use of this important establishment which means so much to the Singleton district and to the nation? 
1 should like to extend through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  congratulations to the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  on his elevation to the Speakership of this House. I congratulate you,  Sir, on  your appointment as  Chairman  of Committees. I also congratulate all those honourable members who have made their maiden speeches in this AddressinReply debate, particularly my colleague, the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann),  whose father the Right Honourable  Sir Charles  Adermann, P.C., was a member of this House for 29 years and who as a Cabinet minister held the portfolio of primary industry. In the present honourable member for Fisher we have a very worthy successor in our Country Party team. 
I was amazed to hear the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  say in this debate tonight that he was delighted to see that primary industry had figured very prominently in the Governor-General's Speech. I had a good look through the Speech and 1 found it extremely difficult to discover any mention at all of primary industry. I found that 15 lines were devoted to primary industry, 7 of which related to the Australian Wool Corporation, 3 to fisheries and 5 to general assistance to primary industry. So, I do not think primary industry received much attention from this Government in the Speech. When I note that primary industry is responsible for earning $2,500m of export income, it amazes me to see how little thought is given to this important industry by the present Government. In my experience since I became a member of this Federal Parliament very little attention has been given to primary industry by members of the present Government 
I should like to address my remarks tonight mainly to decisions made by . the mini Cabinet. That mini Cabinet made some decisions which will have far-reaching effects on Australia. They may np,t be felt at the present time but they certainly will. $e. felt very severely, economically and nationally, as the months and years, go by. The first- decision to which I refer . is the, recalling of our Ambassador in Taiwan and the return, to.. Taiwan of the Taiwanese Ambassador in Australia. What was the need for hurry? There was no need to 'hurry in severing our relations with these loyal people - none whatever. Taiwan has had a wonderful relationship with Australia. The 15 million people on Taiwan do as much trade each year as their 800 million counterparts in Mainland China, and while this trade continues Taiwan will remain very much a going concern. 
We export to Taiwan large quantities of Australian primary produce. In 1970-71 our exports of primary produce were worth $40m and last year they- were worth 855,734,000. They included barley, wheat, wool, powdered milk, beef and many other primary products. I am particularly interested in this trade because I represent a very rich dairying electorate. The loss of export markets could mean that the producers in my area could lose at least $2m in trade in the powdered milk field. Two-way trade wilh Taiwan is of great benefit to Austrafia. Our export trade could be endangered by the Government's action in breaking off diplomatic relations with Taiwan. I know that great play has been made of the supposed loss of our wheat trade to Mainland China, but Mainland China has always bought wheat when she has needed it. Six or 7 years ago Mainland China purchased SI 00m worth of wheat. That figure came down to $63m. It has gone up again. Mainland China has always purchased our wheat when she has required it, irrespective of the influence of Taiwan. It is interesting to note, too, that the communist controlled countries Mainland China and Russia have great, difficulty in getting their government farmers to grow grain and hand it over to the government because farmers,, being what they are. do not like handing over their produce when there is no incentive for them to do so. In the factories there is an incentive for workers to lift production. Another action of the miniCabinet was the severing of diplomatic relations with Rhodesia. In 1971-72 we sold to Rhodesia 45,384 tons of Australian wheat valued at $2,443,000; Now we are not trading with that country and there will be a loss to Australia and to the Australian wheat farmer. 
The revaluation of the Australian dollar by the mini Cabinet was certainly a severe blow to Australian mining, manufacturing and primary industries. Let us look at the loss sustained by our industries in the revaluation process. In mining there was a loss of $143m in February plus a loss of $100m in December and $l,000m has been written off the value of Australian iron ore. Let me refer to manufacturing industries. Taken in conjunction with the effective revaluation of 6.3 per cent in 1971 and the more recent unilateral revaluation of 7.05 per cent in December 1972 Australian exporters are now faced with the fact that in the worst instances their products must be 23.5 per cent more expensive in some overseas markets than similar products exported by the United States of America. 
Let us look at the immediate effect that revaluation has had on our great primary ^industries. The effect has not yet filtered through to the cities but it could do so and no doubt it will do so. The December upvaluation cost primary producers from $150m to $200m. As all honourable members will have read in the Press, the Wheat Board announced recently that there would be a loss to growers in this industry of $ 18.5m on outstanding contracts. Cotton contracts are written in United States dollars, and Australian growers face a crippling loss of $5m. This industry which has been developing so wonderfully in the Wee Waa district of New South Wales will feel the effect of this revaluation tremendously. Revaluation could seriously affect this industry that has been developed over the past 5 years and which has brought great benefit not only to the north west of New South Wales but to the whole of Australia. Overall the loss to primary industry caused by the 2 revaluations could not be less than $300m and could even be as much as $400m. In my electorate pf Paterson the extent of the loss will be from $6m to $8m in the various primary industries spread over an area of 25,000 square miles. 
No doubt the Labor Government will say that the revaluation of the dollar has occurred at a time when our primary producers can best stand it because of the high prices being obtained for their meat and their wool. It appears that the Government has completely forgotten the great droughts that have occurred in this country' over the last 3 or 4 years when our primary producers have lost stock, when they have had to sell all they had on their properties to get some return, and when poor prices have prevailed in the industry for many years and thousands of farmers have been in poor financial situations. Now, when they have an opportunity to recoup their losses and gain financial strength, they are faced with a considerable percentage loss in income. Primary industries are indebted to the banking institutions for millions of dollars. This revaluation has hit them. At a time when they have an opportunity to rehabilitate themselves and their finances every obstacle is' placed in their way. Our great country towns and provincial cities are seriously affected by the incomes of primary producers. The agricultural machinery manufacturing industry, the manufacturing of trucks and cars, steel fabricating and many similar industries all feel the immediate effects of the economy of the country districts. Whether the Government or its industrial supporters like it or not, this is a fact. It is a great tragedy., to these industries that, when they are getting out of the trouble they have been in, they are hit with revaluation. The only industry in- the primary sector that the Government has helped over this trouble has been that which produces apples and pears and canned peaches and apricots. ' 
One of my .colleagues says that it has not but my information is that the Government has given that industry some assistance. It has certainly given no other primary industry any assistance for losses suffered through revaluation: In answering a question recently at a Sydney luncheon the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said that the Government did not have any compensation plans at this stage but that every case could be looked at on its merits. It is to be hoped that the Government will look at these industries on their merits and will give assistance in some instances before it is too late. 
I want to say something about meat exports. A few weeks ago, after we had gained valuable contracts for the supply of beef to the United States of America, we found that ships in various ports were tied up because the waterside workers refused to load meat for the United States of America. That situation went on for about 10 days. The abattoirs throughout our nation had meat stored in their chillers. 1 am the  chairman  of a very big abattoir which had 10 or 12 chillers completely filled with frozen beef for the United States. All the stores at the waterside in our capital cities such as Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide, and other exporting cities were filled with beef. A very serious and dangerous situation arose. Hie sales of cattle in the country areas started to go down. Hie operators did not want to buy the stock because they could not load it for overseas destinations. What did this Government do? What did the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  do? They did absolutely nothing; they let this situation exist and endangered our trade relations with the United States of America. They jeopardised 400,000 tons of beef. Thank goodness the situation was rectified and the meat was able to be exported to that country. This situation could arise again at any time. Right throughout the meat industry there is a very uneasy fee ing with this Government in power, not attempting to do a thing to get our produce away from our ports. 
Yes, the feeling is uneasy right through the country. I have been delighted to bring these facts to the notice of the Government and I hope that some attention will be given to them. It has been a great pleasure to speak in this debate. 
I was amazed to hear the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  criticise the fact that 3 meat inspectors from the Department of Primary Industry have been transferred from the Goulburn abattoir. As the Government, through the Department of Primary Industry, is in charge of meat inspection at the present time the honourable member should see the relevant Minister and get those inspectors back to Goulburn. I have had a lifetime of experience in meat inspection. There are certainly 2 meat inspections, State and Federal. If the honourable member for Eden-Monaro can alter the situation he will be doing a great service to the industry because we have been trying for 15 to 20 years to do this. He will find that the State meat inspection service has built up an empire and will not break it down. He will find also that the same is true of the Federal service under the Department of Primary Industry. Neither service will give way and as a result we still have 2 meat inspection services. 
The price of meat is determined by supply and demand. If there is a short supply a big price can be obtained for the product. The meat industry in Australia has been built up over many years by good management, by primary producers co-operating with the operators and by the Liberal-Country Party Government pushing out into export markets throughout the world and increasing our trade with Japan, the United States and elsewhere and securing long term markets which will be of great benefit to this country for years to come. Contracts have been arranged for the supply of 38,000 tons of beef to Japan, 400,000 tons of beef to the United States of America and, provided the Government does not mess up negotiations, we will be supplying 600,000 tons within the next few years to the European Economic Community. 
I did not rise to mention this subject principally but I had to reply to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. He is a theoretical man and not a practical man. I want to speak about a matter of great importance to Australia - the manufacturers' export incentive scheme. This is a scheme which has brought great benefit to this country and if it is done away with it will seriously affect us economically and particularly our employment situation. On 30th June this year the present arrangement for Australian export incentives expires and there is a very strong rumour that the Government will drop this scheme. This action would considerably affect the incentive to Australian manufacturers to seek export markets, which will result in a loss to Australia. This rumour is current not only in the lobbies of Parliament House but also outside and the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and certain senior Cabinet Ministers are, I understand, in agreement with it. Payroll tax export incentives were introduced in 1960 and the incentive has been most effective in encouraging increased export activity. It is important that the impetus given to increased exports, particularly of manufactured goods, be maintained. During 1971 payroll tax was transferred to the States but exporters received the same benefits from the previous Government. The calculation of the payroll tax incentive entitlement continued, based on the Commonwealth payroll tax rate of  2i  per cent and payments so calculated were paid direct to exporters. 
During the quarter ended 31st March 1972 some 1.095 claims for payroll tax rebates amounting to SI 5.957m were allowed. Of this amount SI 2.378m was allowed to 800 firms for 1970-71 exports, $2.788m to 210 firms for the 1969-70 exports and 85 firms shared $790,000 for exports in earlier years. Since the inception of the scheme on 1st July 1960 tax rebates totalling $241,767m have been allowed. Australia cannot afford to drop export incentives. Such a move would, firstly, create unemployment, secondly, increase costs on the home market and. thirdly, slow down new investment in production facilities. The building of exports requires organisation and careful business investigation and attention over a long period of time. These markets have been achieved by manufacturers over the past 10 to 15 years and any move to discontinue incentives would destroy most of the export gains that have been achieved over this period. It is estimated that for every 1,000 jobs lost in factories another 1,000 could be lost in service industries. Reduction in output would increase the cost of local production and reduce its competitiveness on the home market at a time when currency decisions have already aided imports. 
People who make allegations about export incentives not being necessary and claim that they give manufacturers unwarranted profits are ignorant of the export trade. Such claims have no basis in fact. I sincerely ask the Government to look very hard at this proposition and before making any change to carry out a thorough investigation of Australian manufacturing export trade and the benefits to be derived from continuing export incentives. 

 Mr WHAN (Eden-Monaro)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Last night I spoke of the effect on the Australian economy if the present Government should, on 30th June, do away with the export incentive scheme. Tonight I desire to bring to the notice of this House and of the people of Australia the tremendous effect that revalution has had on Australia's secondary industries. We have already heard much talk about the effect of revaluation on our great primary industries. We have been told that it will cost them about $300m or $400m. Our wool, wheat, meat, sugar, coarse grains and other primary industries as well as our mining industries will be affected. 1 should like to bring to the notice of this House tonight the effect of revaluation on our secondary industries. This has not been fully appreciated by most Australians, and by this Government in particular. The effect of Australia's 7 per cent revaluation last December as well as the further revaluation of 11 per cent against the United States dollar in February has created a most serious problem for secondary industry in Australia, particularly for employment in secondary industry, and the future economic growth of this country. 
Let us examine the basic facts. Under revaluation, United States dollar imports become 15 per cent cheaper in terms of Australian dollars and Australian exports in United 
States dollars give a return of 15 per cent less in terms of Australian dollars. In the case of the pound sterling, imports are now 21 per cent less, taking into account also the effect of British devaluation which has been going on since July 1972. The figures for other European countries are not quite as significant, but in most cases they exceed 10 per cent. The effect of these currency changes on local manufacture has been the equivalent of an erosion in our tariff protection of somewhere between 10 per cent and 20 per cent. lt can readily be seen that this state of affairs must show a big increase in imports which must be at the expense of local manufacturers. As local manufacturers' net profit margins on sales are usually considerably less, the end effect on import competing industries must be either to put them out of business and thereby create much unemployment or, at the very best, to have them continue in business without sufficient profitability to justify plans for any growth or new capital investment. This would also lead to stagnation and to the eventual closure of such industries. 
The effect on industries presently exporting is worse. Nearly all secondary industry exports from Australia are marginal and cannot afford a price drop of this magnitude. Most companies with reasonable export performances gain a considerable cost benefit from their export activities which is reflected in their local pricing. If such companies have to cease exports, their cost of production for the local market only will increase considerably which, at best, would lead to inflationary cost increases to the Australian public, but more likely would make such companies incapable of meeting import competition and ultimately force them out of production. The effect of revaluation therefore must lead to stagnation in industry and considerable increase in unemployment. That is the underlying principle - the effect that revaluation will have on the work force in our secondary industries. 
Whilst this state of affairs will most certainly take place, the effect on employment figures and run down on business may not be noticeable for at least 6 months. This delay in effect will be brought about by industry production on existing contracts taking 6 months or 12 months to take effect. If action is delayed until these effects show up in statistics, then such action would take at least as long to reverse this unfavourable trend. 
The Government must look at this situation immediately to ascertain the best steps to take to protect Australian secondary industries. Our secondary industries have been built up over many years and employ hundreds of thousands of good Australians. The situation is serious. No doubt, industry leaders have already been to see the Government and pointed out the problems to which I have referred. Surely this Government will tackle these problems without delay. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That  the question be  now put. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Has the New South Wales Government decided on Lucas Heights as the site for a new $80m refinery for Ampol Petroleum Ltd? fs this not an excellent site by reason of its remote situation and the fact that it is a sandstone scrub area which, from an environmental point of view, is first class? ls it true that New South Wales, being a sovereign State, has full power over this decision? 'Vill the Minister inform the House of the position regarding this matter? 
I desire to bring to the notice of this Parliament the matter of motor vehicle insurance policies being issued by a firm known as the Australian Motorists Insurance Co. Pty Ltd which operates from the ground floor, 225 George Street, Sydney with a postal address of Box 4, Post Office, George Street North, Sydney. A young man from Scone in my electorate entered into an agreement with this company for a $3,000 cover on a 1971Valiant Pacer sedan on 19th March 1971, to give cover until 19th March 1972. During the period of the policy, this young man was involved in a major accident and damage to the extent of $1,000 was done to his vehicle. A firm of solicitors in Scone, McLellan and Noonan, acted for him in relation to a claim arising out of this accident. On 23rd January 1973 the claim was rejected by the insurer and, after obtaining counsel's advice, it was decided not to take the matter further. This advice was given after an examination of clauses 12 and 13 of the agreement and for the purpose of the record 1 shall read these clauses to the House. They are in the finest print and one has to get a magnifying glass to read them. Clause 12 states: 
All differences arising out of this Policy shall be referred to the decision of an Arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties in difference or if they cannot agree upon a single Arbitrator to the decision of two (2)' disinterested persons as Arbitrators, of whom one (1) shall be appointed in writing by each of the parties within two (2) calendar months after having been required so to do in writing by the other party. In case either party shall refuse or fail to appoint an Arbitrator within two (2) calendar months after receipt of notice in writing requiring an appointment, the other party shall be at liberty to appoint a sole Arbitrator; and in case of a disagreement between the Arbitrators, the difference shall be referred to the decision of an Umpire (who shall be a practising member of the Bar in the State in which such dispute arises) who shall have been appointed by them in writing before entering on the reference and who shall sit with the Arbitrators and preside at their meetings. The death of any party shall not revoke or effect the authority or powers of the Arbitrator, Arbitrators or Umpire respectively. And in the event of a death of an Arbitrator or Umpire, another shall in each case be appointed in his stead by the party or Arbitrators (as the case may be) by whom the Arbitrator or Umpire so dying was appointed. Each party shall pay his/her or their own costs of the reference and moiety of the costs of the award (including Arbitrators' and Umpire's fees. And it is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of action or suit upon this Policy that the award of such Arbitrators or Umpire in respect of any such difference shall be first obtained. 
Clause 13 states: 
No action or suit shall be maintainable against the Company in respect of any claim hereunder unless the same shall have been referred to Arbitration as hereinbefore provided within six months (6) from the date of the occurrence of the accident or loss in respect of which the claim is made. And further no action or suit shall be maintainable against the Company unless proceedings are commenced within six months (6) from the date of  the  award in an Arbitration obtained in manner hereinbefore provided. 
Clause 12 might be called a common arbitration clause but if it is examined it will he seen that the insured is required to pay his own costs of the arbitration proceedings plus one-half of the costs of the arbitrator even, it would appear, if he were successful. As these costs could well exceed $300 this is a real deterrent to taking any dispute to arbitration. However, clause 13 is even more harsh. In the present case the accident occurred in March 1972 but it was not until 23rd 
January 1973 when the claim was rejected that any difference arose under the policy which could give rise to arbitration. This means that by failing to reply to a claim either by way of accepting it or refusing it, the insurer may be able to allow the period of 6 months to pass and may, therefore, be in a position of asserting that there is now no enforceable claim available. 
I feel that the company to which I have referred, the Australian Motorists and General Insurance Co. Pty Ltd is acting in a way which is not in the best interests of the community and is bordering on dishonesty of purpose. I would like this matter to be checked by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  and some action taken to protect people who have the misfortune to insure with this company, the Australian Motorists and General Insurance Co. Pty Ltd. I have been asked by this young man to bring this matter forward and this request has the full backing of his solicitors, McLellan and Noonan, of Scone. 
I ask the. Minister for Health: Have outbreaks of foot and mouth disease occurred in some European countries? If this disease spread to Australia could it ruin our great cattle industry? Can the Minister say what precautions are being taken to prevent this disease entering this country and will he ensure that these precautions are stepped up to prevent such a happening? 
I ask the Prime Minister: Are the permanent heads of departments responsible for all the business of their departments and are they required to advise their Ministers on all matters relating to their departments? Does the very serious charge of conspiracy laid by the Prime Minister yesterday - whatever today's qualification - involve the permanent heads of his own Department of Foreign Affairs and the Attorney-General's Department? 
I raise a matter tonight which concerns a very reputable hire purchase company Custom Credit Corporation Ltd and a client of the company, a  Mr Edward  Wells who lives in my electorate at 283 Newcastle Road, East Maitland. I received a letter today at my Canberra office from  Mrs Joan  Wells, the wife of  Mr Edward  Wells, concerning a transaction which they had with this company.  Mrs Joan  Wells has written on behalf of  Mr Edward  Wells concerning the repossession of a motor car which was under hire purchase to Custom Credit Corporation and was repossessed by this company. This case was highlighted on the television program This Day Tonight' last Thursday night. For a company of the substance and standing of Custom Credit Corporation, the action taken by it seems to be very harsh.  Mr Edward  Wells purchased in March 1970 a 1970 model Morris 1500. The purchase of the car was financed through Custom Credit.  Mr Wells  had purchased several new cars through this organisation prior to purchasing the Morris. He previously had had satisfactory hire purchase dealings with this company in the purchase of those cars. 
It is estimated that  Mr Wells  had paid to Custom Credit about $6,000 to $8,000 for the 2 new cars he had previously purchased through the company.  His  repayments on the latest purchase went along satisfactorily until 28th June 1972 when unfortunately he was stood down in his job, along with many others, because the firm which employed him had lost contracts and had gone out of business. This was a severe blow to him. He had been employed in this industry for about  9i  years. He was out of work for about 2 months before he found suitable employment. When he became unemployed he went along to the company to find out about his car payments. 
At that time he was 2 months ahead of his repayments under the contract. He went to see the credit manager at the Newcastle office of Custom Credit Corporation but he could not find him on that day. While he was there he paid an instalment of $27 which brought him right up to date in his repayments. The very next day he left for Mount Isa where he was employed in that city with an engineering firm for some time, and then was transferred to a job in Victoria. When he was in Victoria he received a letter from the hire purchase company concerning this transaction. 
When the car was purchased he was living at Morisset but later he moved to an address in East Maitland which is in my electorate. He answered the letter which he received while he was in Victoria. He informed the company that he was 2 months behind in his car repayments and he asked for an extension of time to pay as his financial position was temporarily embarrassed. No answer was received to that letter but the company sent a one-ton truck to pick up the car. What a lovely Christmas present this was. When they arrived back at East Maitland for their Christmas vacation, it was interrupted by a one-ton truck from Custom Credit picking up their car. They received no notice of the intention of the company to repossess the car. One month later a letter was received to the effect that the company had sold the car for $300 and that they were liable for the loss of $563 on the sale. The company graciously added in that letter that it might be prepared to enter into an agreement to allow them to pay this amount of money by instalments. An amount of $2,069 had been paid off the car. These people had never missed a repayment until the unemployment situation arose. This was the third car which they had purchased through this organisation. It was 3 years old and it had only 19,000 miles on the clock. It was repossessed by Custom Credit Corporation Ltd and sold for $300. 
Anybody who was watching 'This Day Tonight' last Thursday night would have been informed that the car was worth between $700 and $900 and yet this company sold it for $300. It is a reputable company. I have known it in the business world for a long time. To me it is a remarkable situation that in these circumstances, dealing with somebody with whom it had had very satisfactory dealings before, the company should act in the manner which it did. I think that this company, Custom Credit Corporation Ltd, should have a look at this deal and that it should compensate  Mr Edward  Wells for the problem which has arisen. I know that legally the company is right. Under a hire purchase contract it can repossess a car or a machine when repayments fall behind. But surely when a person, through no fault of his own, becomes unemployed and cannot meet the repayments some consideration should be given to him. I hope that Customs Credit will have a look at this matter and deal sympathetically with this client who has been a faithful client of the company for many years. 
I desire in the time that is available to me to bring forward to the Parliament the matter of fuel prices in Australia. It has been of great interest to users of refined products to learn of an announcement made by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  that he would recommend to Cabinet that the newly set up Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices be given a reference on this very important subject and that the Minister had assumed that the Government would agree to this taking place. Today petrol and distillate, which of course are the refined products, are universally used in our every day life, and the price of such fuels is of great importance to the economy and is an element in the cost of all types of goods and services. 
It appears from recent events in the distribution of petrol and distillate that prices being charged across Australia are too high. It is interesting to note that in New South Wales the Minister for Labour and Industry has conferred with oil companies to see whether it is possible to decrease the number of service stations in Sydney. It has been reported that these companies have agreed over the next 12 months to reduce by 10 per cent the number of stations servicing the public. Apparently the theory is that the proprietors of the remaining stations would make a better living without having to increase their profit margin, and of course a reduction would eliminate some of the proprietors who are on the breadline because of low profits in this industry. 
In Victoria about 300 petrol outlets and service stations have closed in the past 3 years, and it is understood that the oil companies plan to close many more outlets. These companies have stated in Victoria that they would be prepared to have talks with the Government in that State similar to those recently held in New South Wales. The petroleum industry generally agrees that the closing of uneconomic service stations reduces the risk of any petrol price war. It has been interesting to hear the statements being made by the  chairman  of XL Petroleum Pty Ltd,  Mr Ian  Sykes, to the effect that there has been heavy over-investment in service stations in Australia over the past 25 years. He further added that two-thirds of the stations in Victoria and half those in New South Wales should close. This is an interesting observation coming from a man who has taken on the major oil companies in a price war, particularly in Victoria where, as honourable members know, concessions are being given, and also in New South Wales. This gentleman, on behalf of his company, has been able to enter into a contract with Ampol to refine his company's entitlement of Australian crude oil. Under the contract a profit of 4c a gallon will go to Ampol. It is interesting to note what the managing director of Ampol has said about this deal. He said: 
It was preferable for us, as an Australian-owned company with an Australian refinery running 10 per cent Australian crude, to supply them instead of letting more business go to foreign-owned competitors. 
On completion of this deal with the Ampol company XL Petroleum reduced the price of super gasolene at its Melbourne garages by 10c a gallon below the normal price of 49.7c. Admittedly XL Petroleum has no refineries and no big capital expenditure in installations or depots and no large overheads. Possibly this is the basis on which it can make this product available at a lower price. 
The man who is responsible for the wholesale price of petrol, the South Australian Prices Commissioner,  Mr Baker,  has said as recently as 24th April that there is no indication that oil companies are making excessive profits in Australia. This gentleman has stated also that the wholesale price of petrol before Commonwealth duty is added is cheaper now than it was 15 years ago. The Australian excise duty on petrol imported into this country in its refined state and the excise duty on petrol refined from Australian crude is now 17.3c a gallon. That makes up the main cost of petrol being sold in Australia.  Mr Baker  has stated also that the larger oil companies were required by the Federal Government to process a certain amount of indigenous oil at a price fixed by the Liberal- 
Country Party Government. The small oil companies do not have to process an equal amount so their costs obviously are lower. 
The tax paid by the oil companies amounted to $47.7m last year. There is no doubt that the Commissioner of Taxation looks very closely at the records of all companies involved in international transactions to ensure that they pay their share of taxes in Australia. Nevertheless it does appear that the discrepancy in the price of petrol as between the major companies and the independent operators such as XL Petroleum is too large. It is time that the Government of the day had a searching inquiry into the price structure. 
However, there is one side of the petroleum distribution with which we must be concerned. I refer to the marketing of refined products outside the reseller area, that is, outside the service station area. I refer to the supply of fuel to transport companies, commercial enterprises, industrial undertakings and primary producers. When one looks at this situation one finds that the companies are making rebates to certain preferred accounts in the capital cities of Australia. These preferred accounts are generally taxi companies, big transport operators and industrial concerns. The companies are rebating these organisations to the extent of 9c a gallon on petrol purchases. I feel that if the oil companies can rebate 9c a gallon to these organisations the rebate should be made available right across the board in Australia. Fuel is an extremely costly part of the operating costs of primary producers who are not given the rebates which the major oil companies are giving to operators in the capital cities. Small accounts are not treated so liberally. This type of trading indicates that there is room for a standard price reduction right across the board. 
Some primary producers who purchase large quantities of gasolene and distillate receive lesser discounts on their purchases - probably 3c to 4c per gallon - than do operators in the capital cities. These primary producers have to purchase huge quantities of fuel before the oil companies come to the party and give a discount. The smaller operator is hit all the time in that he has to pay the full price. This aspect of oil company trading must be investigated immediately with a view to giving fair treatment to all users of petroleum products. If costs were reduced and prices stabilised, a reduction could be made in the price of refined petroleum products that would benefit all. 1 trust that no time will be lost by the Government in holding an inquiry into these operations. It is a long time since an inquiry was held and it should not be delayed any longer because action is needed now. 
 I support the Bill which is to make a minor amendment to the New South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation) Act 1971. This Bill will permit flood mitigation work to be carried out on the 3 small creeks which are near the Tweed River and which are enumerated in the Bill. Unfortunately these creeks were inadvertently omitted from the original Bill although they were submitted by the New South Wales Government in 1970 when the original proposals were submitted. The Act put through this House in 1971 provided for assistance to the Government of New South Wales for flood mitigation to many coastal rivers, namely the Bellinger, Clarence, Hastings, Hawkesbury, Hunter, Macleay, Manning, Moruya, Richmond, Shoalhaven and Tweed. The cost of the works on the 3 creeks listed in the Bill - the Cudgen, Cudgera and Mooball - estimated to be $100,500 was included in the original proposals approved by Parliament in 1971. 
There is under this legislation no intention to vary the previous Act but simply to correct an omission. However, the Act is of great importance to flood mitigation in the areas and rivers mentioned in the Bill. Over the years the fertile valleys and rich agricultural areas fed by these rivers have been subjected to the ravages of floods and thousands of millions of dollars worth of damage has taken place in huge agricultural areas and cities, towns and villages adjacent to the rivers. The need for flood mitigation in New South Wales really became evident in 1955 when a major flood established a real need for flood mitigation schemes. The year 1963 was the turning point. The national importance of flood mitigation was recognised by the Commonwealth Government and the amount of finance available for flood mitigation construction was almost doubled. The cost of works on the Hunter River in my electorate since 1963 has been shared on the basis of $3 each from the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government for each $1 allocated by the Hunter Valley Conservation Trust. The Hunter River rises in the Dividing Range at Tomala and reaches the sea150 miles away at Newcastle. It flows through a very fertile valley where there are many important towns. The city of Maitland is situated at the lower end of the valley and honourable members know that this city has been ravaged by floods on many occasions. The construction of the large Glenbawn Dam above Aberdeen has been a great help in providing water for farms along the river and assisting flood mitigation. 
I had pleasure in advising the Maitland City Council and members of the Hunter Valley Conservation Trust at the time of the 1971 Act of the fact that the Government would be making money available so that the Trust could get on with the job of flood mitigation above the city, and what a good job it has done. Floods in this area now have been minimised. Levee banks, engineering works and other works have prevented many serious floods since this date. The original Bill provided for $9m for assistance with flood mitigation works on 11 New South Wales coastal rivers. In my electorate $6m was allocated to the Hunter Valley Trust. The Trust, as I have said, has done a great job and its work has been practically demonstrated over the years by the prevention of flooding of main towns in the valley and of the farming areas in this region by the provision of levee banks and engineering works. If this work had not been carried out many of the floods that have occurred would have caused millions of dollars worth of damage. 
Money is to be made available under the Bill over a 6-year term. This legislation is continuing the assistance that was given by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. I hope that when the present term of assistance is completed another Government will be in office to look after conservation. Money spent and work done on flood mitigation is giving people more protection all the time. Possibly we may see the time when flooding will cease on the Hunter and other coastal rivers as well as the 3 creeks which are enumerated in this Bill. Flood mitigation is a most important item in the government of this country and it will receive full support at all times from the Australian Country Party. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I wish to bring to the notice of the House tonight a matter which is causing people in the meat industry in Australia great concern. On Monday, 9 April, representatives of the Commonwealth meat inspectors Australian body met in Sydney to discuss wage increases for their members. At the meeting it was decided that initial industrial action be taken by working to regulations as from Monday, 15th May, if a satisfactory reply was not received from the Public Service Arbitrator on or by 14th May. The Victorian section of the union dissented as they required direct industrial action. The meeting took a strong stand with regard to salary claims. The New South Wales section demanded an immediate strike unless a 12 per cent interim increase was granted. As I said, Victoria did not want to settle for anything less than strike action. 
The major decision arrived at was initially to try a work to regulations policy. It was emphasised that the killing rate in all abattoirs right across the country was to be reduced by at least 50 per cent for this type of action to be successful. The only alternative would be strike action if wage justice was to be achieved. The report of the meeting has been sent to all shed delegates, both metropolitan and country. They have been asked to comply with the instructions. 
Work to regulations can be achieved by the inspectors' slowing down their normal inspection work so as to cut in half the output of any export abattoir or any abattoir handling both export and home consumption meat. I will give instances of how this can be achieved, turning first to the ante-mortem inspection. 
The following action is specified: Each animal shall be observed both at rest and whilst in motion. Both sides, head and rear of each animal shall be examined. Members on antemortem duty shall rigidly observe this instruction and shall not sign an ante-mortem card until the examination is carried out in complete detail. This indicates that the inspectors can slow down the operation by taking considerably more time on that side of their inspection duties. 
I turn now to the post-mortem details. This section must be rigidly enforced in every detail, according to the meeting. It decided that sterilising the knife means more than just dipping it into a steriliser. The knife should be agitated and held in the steriliser for a reasonable period - a minimum of 30 to 60 seconds. In regard to the washing of hands the meeting decided that hands must be thoroughly washed at all times. If the work to regulation procedure comes into operation with a consequent slowing down of production, the result will be that our great export trade in beef, lamb and mutton will be seriously affected. Valuable export income will be lost to the nation and the income of primary producers will be seriously affected. 
The price of meat on the local market must increase as, with the slowing down of abattoir throughput, the costs of producing and preparing meat will increase because of work to regulations or strike action. It will be a serious national problem. The salary claims are before the arbitration authorities at present. I will quote a telegram which was sent to the Australian Meatworks Federal Council in Sydney from Melbourne on 8th May. It states: 
Exploratory discussions which took place in Melbourne on 7th May between Commonwealth Meat Inspectors Association Department of Primary Industry and Arbitration Division of Commonwealth Public Service Board likely to lead to further meetings with Meat Inspectors Association next week. 
I ask the Government to examine this very serious situation which has developed in the meat industry. It is one of our greatest export industries and also serves Australians right across the nation. I ask the Government to take immediate steps through the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  to have a look at the situation, to investigate it from every angle, and to talk it over with the people concerned with a view to preventing a much more serious situation developing. 
This Bill is designed to nationalise the natural gas industry in Australia; every facet of the Bill points in this direction. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  castigate foreign oil interests for exploring in this country. If foreign capital had not come into Australia and provided the finance and the know how, there would have been no discoveries of oil in this country today. The Australian petroleum industry is providing 60 per cent of our oil requirements. So, it has been very important that we have had foreign companies entering Australia to put down the rigs and drill wells so that we might have petroleum for our own needs. 
I would agree with one point made by the honourable member for Hawker, namely, that we should not let these foreign companies take complete control of our industry. Australia should maintain a percentage control but, at the same time, we should encourage these companies to come to Australia for the reasons that I have enunciated - to supply the know how and the capital. There have been some fine petroleum and natural gas discoveries in this country. The honourable member for Hawker deplored the fact that these overseas companies had come and assisted us in this way. There is a great deal of Australian equity in Ampol Exploration Ltd, which has made finds at Barrow Island in Western Australia. Esso-BHP, which was responsible for one of our great finds off the Victorian coast, is controlled by the great Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. Here again, if we had not been assisted by the Esso company, this project would not have been developed in the way that it has and would not be providing petroleum resources for this country which are of great advantage to each and every one of us. 
In his second reading speech, the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  said that this was a simple Bill. When we have a look at the Bill, we find that it is not so simple. There are many clauses in the Bill which give members of the Opposition considerable cause for concern. The clauses contained in the Bill will give the proposed authority practically unlimited scope in all sorts of fields, quite apart from the provision of a pipeline transporting natural gas from Gidgealpa into the eastern States of Australia and, indeed, right across the entire country. Clause 16 contains 13 paragraphs giving the proposed authority the power to do all sorts of things - to purchase land, to take land on lease, to take easements over land, to sell or otherwise dispose of land, to release any easements over land, to purchase or take on hire plant and so on. To my mind, these clauses will give the authority far too much scope. One of the paragraphs in clause 13 will empower the authority to buy and sell petroleum, whether in Australia or elsewhere. 
These clauses indicate clearly that the Bill is designed on nationalisation levels, to nationalise this great industry and that, of course, is the policy of the Government. Such a course will be followed not only in the field of natural gas but also in many other spheres. Private enterprise was quite prepared to develop this undertaking and build pipelines across Australia, without any need for the Government to interfere and provide thousands of millions of dollars of the people's money in a nationalistic enterprise. Private enterprise could have carried this out. I was interested to read some excerpts from articles that appeared in various daily newspapers in this country when the announcement was made that the Federal Government intended to take over this pipeline. The 'Daily Telegraph' on 27th March, under the headline Federal Government Win Over Gas Pipeline', said: 
The Federal Government has won the major battle in its fight to take control of the proposed (160 million natural gas pipeline from South Australia to Sydney. 
The article pointed out that now, instead of private enterprise doing it, public funds have come in to take over the project on a socialistic basis. One of the great men in our gas industry in Australia,  Sir William  Pettingell, has queried very strongly the reason why the Federal Government has taken over this pipeline. He has stated quite openly that private enterprise - his company in particular - has sufficient funds to pipe this gas from Gidgealpa to the eastern States. Why is it necessary to raise millions of dollars from the public of this country to be put into such a pipeline when this will cause increased taxation and all sorts of things in order to provide this necessary service? 
Natural gas is a very important source of power. I have no doubt that overseas countries will desire to purchase natural gas from Australia because world supplies of natural gas, as has been pointed out by previous speakers, are diminishing. In Canada and in the United States of America, as well as in other overseas fields, natural gas supplies are diminishing. We in Australia have a very fine supply of natural gas and consequently will have many overseas buyers for it. Of course, one of these will be Japan. I would caution here against over-selling our supplies in any 1Way, because if we do we could find ourselves in trouble in meeting our own demands. We should give very careful consideration to how we handle the sale of our natural gas. I have noted with interest that Japan is providing the pipes for the natural gas pipeline from Gidgealpa. At present something like $40m worth of pipes is stored in Newcastle ready to be put into the pipeline. This apparently was arranged prior to the Federal Government taking over this pipeline.  Sir William  Pettingell, the  Chairman  of the Australian Gas Light Co., had something to say on this question. He said that money is being wasted on the natural gas pipeline. The 'Daily Telegraph' of 26th April reported as follows: 
Federal Government plans to link New South Wales and Victorian natural gas pipelines were a 'sheer waste of money',  Sir William  Pettingell said last night. He was commenting on an announcement that the Federal Government had agreed to build a 20-inch pipeline connecting Wagga, Cootamundra and Albury with the Sydney-Moomba natural gas link. 

 Sir William is  chairman  of the Australian Gas Light Company, which has prepared plans for the construction of the main $160m pipeline from South Australia to Sydney . . . 
However,  Sir William  Pettingell last night described the move as a 'sheer waste of money*. 
They are tipping money down the drain - an eight inch link would meet the requirements of the country centres for years to come'. 
That is from a man who has a great knowledge of the gas industry in Australia. He has been one of the real pioneers in the supply of commercial gas to industry and the supply of gas to our great cities on the eastern seaboard. Whilst we support the establishment of a natural gas pipeline system in this country I - and most other members on this side of the House agree with me - believe that it should be done by private enterprise. This move by the Government to socialise the industry certainly has not my support. We believe in private enterprise, and this Bill does nothing but socialise one of our great industries - an industry that will expand and become of great importance to Australia. The Bill in its present form gives far too much power to the Federal Government. Upon studying it clause by clause, one will see that the Authority has power over practically everything. This is socialisation to the full extent. 
I desire to speak tonight on the subject of tourism as it affects Australia. The report of the Australian Tourist Commission for 1971-72 has just been received. It has revealed that an ever-increasing number of tourists are visiting Australia. For example, in 1970 the number of tourists was 338,395. In 1971 the number was 388,660, an increase of 14.9 per cent. However, this represented a significant decrease in the growth rate of 22.7 per cent experienced in 1970. A decline in the number of tourists must give us cause for concern. No doubt the growth of our tourist industry can be partly explained in terms of the increasingly competitive nature of international tourism, in respect of both travel costs and tourist facilities. In other words, Australia remains a relatively more expensive country to visit and its tourist facilities suffer by comparison with those of our major competitors. 
Our neighbour New Zealand has also suffered a decline in visitor growth. The growth rate of 17.2 per cent in 1970 dropped to 1.7 per cent in 1971. Cheaper air fares to Europe have affected the flow of visitors from New Zealand to Australia. Of all visitors to Australia, 21.5 per cent come from the United States. New Zealand provides 25.3 per cent; the United Kingdom 11.4 per cent; continental Europe 8 per cent; Japan 4.1 per cent; Malaysia 3.3 per cent; and other nations 26.4 per cent. What must give us cause for concern is that the number of Australian tourists travelling overseas exceeds the number of tourists coming to Australia. This can largely be attributed to the cheaper air fares operating out of Australia not only on overseas airlines but also on Qantas, our own airline. 
Australian tourists spent $170m more overseas than foreign tourists spent in Australia last year. In 1971 Australians spent only $60m more overseas than visitors to Australia spent here.  Mr Atkinson,  the General Manager of the Australian Tourist Commission, said recently that Qantas-initiated low fares to Europe and package tours were major reasons for the increase in the number of Australians holidaying abroad. Qantas last year initiated moves leading to the introduction of $420 one way and $700 return air fares to Europe. It also started a package tour scheme offering Australians 8 days in Singapore, including accommodation, for about $268. 
The Australian Tourist Commission has been trying to narrow the gap and had been doing so until the lower fares were introduced by Qantas. The Commission is not critical of the lower fares. It thinks it would be bad to discourage Australians from going abroad. It welcomes the aggressive marketing mood of Qantas as a sign of an active and progressive organisation. The Commission believes that the inclusive tour charter flight scheme of Qantas to South East Asia has been responsible for few foreign tourists coming to Australia.  Mr Atkinson  also stated that he 'looked forward to the time Qantas operated similar schemes between Japan and North America and Australia. Then the many people wanting to tour Australia could be exploited'. The local industry and those who serve it will have to pull their socks up. They will have to improve their marketing and their standard of service and accommodation. 
One has only to look at recent Press reports throughout Australia to see headings like the one in the Melbourne 'Herald' of 9th January which states: 'Our tourist resorts are poor'. This seems to be the opinion that has been circulating overseas about this country. So, as I have stated, the people involved in the local tourist industry will have to pull their socks up. If they want to attract tourists to this country they must provide up to date, modern hotel and motel facilities. Above all, they will have to get out into the market place and actively compete for custom. Nothing is more certain than that in the near future the industry will face much stiffer competition from abroad. Our problem is that the cheaper fares are being offered to countries which have a low cost structure. In Australia, by comparison, building and labour costs are high. This in turn means higher tariffs. The domestic airlines have already responded to the challenge by offering a wide range of cheap interstate package tours. However, the fact remains that holiday travel within Australia still is comparatively expensive. While it is expensive, Fiji, New Zealand and other outer Pacific and South East Asian countries will continue to have the edge on Australia's major resort areas and tourist spots. So our tourist operators will have to have a good look at the situation and make every effort to improve it to attract more visitors from overseas, and this will mean more revenue for Australia. 
I have also mentioned that we must improve our hotel and motel accommodation. Tourists like comfort and modern amenities to which they are accustomed in overseas countries. Various State governments have set up tourists departments which support financially country regional tourist associations and a splendid job is being done in this field. For instance, New South Wales has established regional tourist associations throughout that State. These regional tourist associations are supported by the State Government which assists them financially to employ a regional tourist officer and to promote tourism in their areas. But I feel that we should be doing more in our federal capacity to promote and develop tourism in Australia. We have a Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  in the Federal Government. He is doing a good job. He is getting about and encouraging tourist activities throughout the country. I also pay a tribute to the Australian Tourist Commission, which is doing a splendid job. I personally have had communications with the Commission with regard to tourist facilities in my own area. The Commission is sending an officer to the area to look at the facilities so that it can advertise them overseas and overseas visitors will know where there are places in this country that they can see Australian farm life and the general Australian way of life. 
Most country members and, of course, city members as well have tourist attractions in their electorates. In my electorate of Paterson we have many tourist attractions. We have the great Glenbawn Dam on the Hunter River above Scone; this is a major tourist attraction. We have the Cullingral Ranch at Merriwa about which the Australian Tourist Commission wrote to me. This is a splendid tourist attraction. It has motel type accommodation and 3,000 acres under sheep and cattle where overseas visitors, particularly Americans, can be accommodated in comfort and where they can see our great agricultural industries at first hand. So I say that we should all get out and promote Australia as a tourist attraction because tourism not only advertises our great country but also brings to it valuable income that we need. 
Housing is one of the most important facets of government in Australia today. The Federal  ant 
State governments in co-operation are duty bound to make every effort to provide homes, particularly for low income earners. Building costs are increasing all the time and with the high price of land it is very difficult for all types of home seekers to be able to build and own their own homes. Young married couples starting off in life are meeting heartbreaking experiences in getting a home together. Home ownership surely is the goal of every Australian family and we as legislators must be aware of the problems that are being experienced in this field. 
Building societies, both permanent and terminating, have made a great contribution to the provision of homes in Australia. Far too often we hear prominent people knocking building societies and their activities in the home ownership field. They have made a wonderful contribution to home building in this country, not only in the city areas but also in the great country areas. I have noticed that home loans may get tighter and that home buyers could find it harder to get loans from building societies. This was apparent after talking with a number of representatives of major building societies in this country recently. It is a great pity that men in high places in this country denigrate the wonderful work and the activities of our building societies. 
State government housing commissions have since their inception made wonderful provision for housing for both ownership and rental. Where industries have been established in city fringe areas and provincial cities and towns there is always a demand on State housing commissions for accommodation to be provided for the key personnel and employees of such undertakings. When we have a look at the situation across the board we find in the main a ready response to the demand made on housing commissions in these circumstances. Banks, too, through their housing loan departments play their part in providing homes for their clients. It was heartening to see a report in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' today that a monthly record of $35m in March had been made available through savings bank housing loan approvals in New South Wales. I repeat that this is a monthly record in this field. 
We are dealing with the Housing Agreement Bill 1973 and the 2 associated Bills. These Bills are, of course, inter-related. The Housing Agreement Bill seeks to obtain the approval of this Parliament for the Commonwealth to execute agreements with each State. It is interesting to note that the legislation provides that no fewer than 85 per cent of the family homes to be built by State housing authorities with Commonwealth funds will be allocated to families where the average gross weekly income of the main breadwinner does not exceed 85 per cent of the average weekly earnings per employed male unit. Those who will be eligible will be mainly the lower income families who are paying too high a proportion of their incomes in private rents or whose accommodation is of an unsatisfactory nature. However, the Bill provides for only 30 per cent of the funds allocated to the States to be used for home ownership. This has brought a great reaction from tha States, apart from New South Wales. 
I agree with the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  that this Government should not dictate to the States as to what the home ownership percentage should be. I know that the State Premiers are against this 30 per cent proposal and that in some States they are talking about 50 per cent. I wholeheartedly agree with them. I think that it is dictatorial action on the part of this centralist Government. The proposal should be varied because in some States it is desirable that the percentage should be increased in view of the great demand for home ownership. There is nothing more that people like to own more than their own homes and they ought to be given that opportunity. In view of this fact it appears that this percentage should be increased to allow the States to provide more homes for the people. We should do all in our power to increase facilities to allow higher home ownership figures to be achieved. I should like to refer to clause 10, sub-section 2 of the Schedule to the Bill. It will take only a few seconds to read it. It reads: 
After consultation with the State Ministers on the requirements of the States for welfare housing, during which regard shall be taken, among other relevant matters, of the numbers seeking assistance, the cost of land and of dwelling construction and the capacity of the State to use advances, the Minister shall determine the amount to be advanced to the State in respect to the financial year as Housing Authority advances and as Home Builders' Account advances in accordance with clause 9. 
Surely it would be better to alter this clause to read: 'A mutual agreement with the States.' Again the State Premiers have been hit with this clause. It would have been far better if the agreement had been reached after consultation with the States. As the Bill stands the amount to be made available to the States does not come within the Australian Loan Council figure. Surely this makes it difficult for the States to know what their loan programs will be. I feel that this is an interference with State rights. The amount should be determined by the Premiers at the Loan Council meeting. In this way the Premiers and the State governments will know what their total commitments are and they will not have to wait until a Bill of this nature goes through this Parliament. The States have not yet agreed to this legislation. As 1 said earlier, there is dissension and disagreement between the States and the Commonwealth in regard to this Bill. Labor's policy at the last elections certainly did not give it a mandate to operate in this manner. Its policy was: 
A Labor government will request each State authority to estimate the funds it will require to reduce the waiting period for houses to 12 months. 
In Labor's election policy no mention was made of eliminating or placing any restriction at all on home ownership in general, and in particular no restriction on the sale of homes built under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement was mentioned. No mandate has been given by the people to this Government to act in this manner. Today every member of the Parliament received a booklet entitled 'New Legislation of the Australian Parliament' which sets out what the Government has done. Under the beading 'Immediate Funds for Housing Agreements Soon', which I believe is a presumption, the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  says that the purpose is to provide housing for letting to needy families and persons, which is already a State housing commission role. He repeats the condition that such housing is not for sale. He goes on to say: 
All States have accepted the offer and have agreed to this condition. 
This is not true. They have not. They did accept it, under pressure, in respect of the first Housing Assistance Bill, which provided $6.5m, but they certainly have not accepted this condition in respect of these Bills. It is presumptuous of the Minister to think that this Parliament will go back on an agreement that he came to with the State Ministers in Adelaide recently, namely, that there was to be50 per cent home ownership. Now we find that it is to be 30 per cent. No one will disagree with the need for homes in Australia - particularly in New South Wales, the State which I represent as the member for the Paterson electorate. The Federal Government's loan of $3.5m for housing in New South Wales could put roofs over the heads of 4,500 needy people. But nearly 200,000 more people in the State would still be desperately in need of homes. I am pleased to note that of the homes to be provided in New South Wales there is a possibility of my getting 50 for the fast developing city of Maitland in my electorate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I rise to support my 2 colleagues the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  who support this Bill. This Bill seeks to extend up to 31 December 1976 the bounty which is paid on agricultural tractors manufactured in Australia. This legislation fully supports in their entirety the recommendations which were made as a result of the recent Tariff Board inquiry. The tractor industry has grown with the wheat boom years 1965 to 1969 when the total number of tractors in Australia rose from 290,000 to 323,596 of which 299,297 were wheel type tractors. This industry is one which experiences great fluctuations due to the varying seasons experienced by farmers right across Australia. In fact, huge losses have been sustained by tractor and machinery companies operating in Australia in the past few years. Some firms manufacturing tillage implements have folded up and they have been taken over by their competitors. 
While tillage and harvesting machinery has been manufactured for many years the manufacture of tractors has been, comparatively, a much later proposition. Imported tractors come mainly from the United States of America, Great Britain, Canada, Italy, Czechoslavakia and other continental areas. The huge import of overseas machines was no doubt the main reason why the LiberalCountry Party Government brought down in October 1966 the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act to cover tractors manufactured in Australia and to give Australian firms protection from overseas companies which were manufacturing for the world market. The first company to manufacture tractors in Australia was John Deere Chamberlain Pty Ltd of Welshpool in Western Australia. The Government encouraged that company by way of subsidy payments from 1 July 1969 to 30 June 1970. A total of 1,779 tractors were manufactured on which bounty of $992,478 was paid. The value of the machines totalled $7,727,000. That was a very worthy and great contribution to the tractor industry in Australia. The greater the horse power of the tractors produced the larger the bounty that was paid by the Government. This practice has continued under the provisions of the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act. The amount of bounty which is payable is clearly set out in Schedule 1 to the Bill. That Schedule takes into consideration low horse power tractors and extends up to tractors in the 80 to 100 horse power bracket. The action of the Government in paying bounties encouraged this company to manufacture in Australia, saving valuable foreign exchange and creating employment for labour and industry. It helped us to be self-sufficient in this very important field. 
When we look at the situation we find that the next company that manufactured here was the International Harvester Co. which has its headquarters in Melbourne. This company soon followed the example set to it by Chamberlain Industries. From 1 July 1969 to 30 June 1970 this company received from the Government by way of bounty $764,000 for 1,407 tractors produced at a value of $3. 4m. These figures indicate clearly the growth of this industry due to the assistance given by the Government -to the companies. In 1971 Chamberlain Industries was paid a bounty totalling $848,535 for the 1,333 tractors which it manufactured, and the International Harvester Co. was paid a bounty totalling $537,183 for the 1,147 tractors which it manufactured. So both of these companies have been helped considerably by the bounty which the Government has paid on tractors manufactured in Australia. Tractors manufactured in Australia have helped farmers right across 'the board in their production campaigns, particularly in the big wheat years. They have helped these farmers to achieve the production of huge quantities of wheat which has been of great benefit to Australia both from a national point of view and from every other angle. 
Another intending manufacturer of wheel type tractors in this country will be covered by the Bill that we are at present discussing. This intending manufacturer is the Pointer organisation which plans to make an unconventional wheel tractor designed particularly for use in developing countries. Having looked through the records one finds that this company will be manufacturing in Victoria. It has not got off the ground yet. At current levels of production both local producers are well below their maximum plant capacity. Chamberlain Industries has a capacity on a multiple shift basis of over 3,000 units per annum. At the time of the Tariff Board inquiry this firm was working at slightly over only one shift capacity with additional time being worked in some production processes. The International Harvester Co., which has a plant capacity considerably in excess of that of Chamberlain Industries, has indicated that it could increase its output considerably by working its sheet metal, forge, welding and machine shops on 2 shifts with 3 shifts on certain key machines. 
Local producers' combined plant capacity is sufficient to supply over 40 per cent of the 1975-76 total market demand, which was estimated recently by the Tariff Board to be 15,000 tractors. At the present time neither local producer has plans for extending its production facilities. The reason for this is that this industry has received very severe setbacks over the past few years due to drought conditions and a lack of farmer income. These companies have had to curtail their manufacturing program. Indeed, when we look at the companies which supply tractors from overseas we find that their imports of machines are down considerably. It has been only in the past few weeks that the number of tractors in Australia is catching up and is sufficient for current demands made on this industry by the farming community. 
At the time, of the public hearing of the Tariff Board local manufacturers employed just over 1,000 people in the production and distribution of the goods under reference to the Board whereas prior to the decline in production in 1969-70 it is estimated that approximately 1,600 people were employed. These figures do not include the considerable number of people employed by manufacturers which supply mc and Chamberlain Industries with spare parts and they do not include the great number of people who are employed right across Australia in the various tractor distributing organisations which sell to the farmers. So U ls an industry which is very important to Australia, which employs a great number of people, and which is making a splendid contribution to the economy of the nation. It is my wish and the wish of my colleagues that more companies operating in this field should commence manufacturing in Australia and thus make a contribution to employment in Australia and in this industry. I feel that as the years progress and as courage comes back into the industry as the seasons possibly revert to their normal condition we will see this happen. But the way the seasons have been manufacturers certainly have not been encouraged to put capital into this industry. I support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
Third reading 
Leave granted for third reading to be moved forthwith. 
Bill (on motion by  Mr Daly)  read a third time. 
-I ask the Minister for Urban and Regional Development a question. Is it true that some local government councils have already made approaches to the local government grants commission and received financial assistance? If not, have some local government councils been promised financial assistance for certain projects? Can the Minister inform the House of the exact position at present in respect of this local government assistance measure? 
The wine industry is one of the shining stars of the rural industries. Through a period of expansion over the last decade it rode comparatively unassailed during the rural slump and has gone from a small to a large industry now using over 350,000 tonnes of grapes a year and selling annually about 30 million gallons of wine. It is an industry that has been characterised by close interdependence between individual grape growers, the wineries and the distilleries. It has been traditionally a South Australian industry although significant wineries have been established in the Rutherglen area of Victoria and in the irrigated area of the Riverina electorate of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  In the Paterson electorate wineries are being constructed at present by many of the major companies and smaller operators. 
Although the individual grape growers are still vital to the industry the wineries in South Australia now own about one-quarter of the vineyard acreage in that State. The industry has spread to the Hunter Valley where thousands of acres of vineyards are established or are being established by wineries. At present it is estimated that the capital investment in the Hunter Valley is of the order of $60m. Marketing is becoming more sophisticated and fiercely competitive. The radical changes in the wine industry that I have mentioned have not been painless and are not complete. Nevertheless, they have transformed the essential character of the industry and have posed some very pertinent questions relating to its general nature and to the specific provisions of this legislation. Is the industry destined to resolve its ultimate structure into a limited number of large wineries, each part of a business empire? What is the future for the growers and co-operatives in South Australia who have traditionally been suppliers of bulk wine to other wineries? What is the future of the small scale grape grower who supplies grapes to the co-operatives and to other wineries? The complete answers to these questions are shrouded by the uncertainties of the future. 
It should be clearly understood that the wine and brandy industry has been hit to leg by legislation. Consequently for thousands of grape growers the industry has been hit to the extent of about $20m a year. How ironic it is when reflecting on the Budget figures that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  had previously given an assurance that the wine excise would not be reintroduced. We have heard the honourable member for Riverina castigating the previous Government for introducing a wine excise duty which returned about $10m. We find that legislation which will hit this industry to the extent of $20m a year is going to be enacted. The Labor Party has made much play of its intention to eliminate the wine excise. This legislation will cost the industry many millions of dollars more than the wine excise would have cost it. There is a continual requirement for Government policy to be responsive to the changing nature of the rural economy and one of the most rapidly and fundamentally changing areas is in the wine and grape growing industries. 
The Australian Wine Board has a legal responsibility for regulating the export trade of the industry in promoting the sale of Australian wine and brandy in Australia and overseas. It is an old institution dating back to 1929. It is legitimate to ask whether its structure, functions and activities relate meaningfully to the industry as it exists in 1973. Such a question can also be asked about a number of other commodity boards which service industries, in new circumstances and having new problems, with old structures and old legislation. ,1 support the intention of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  to review the operation of these marketing boards. In this review the nature of the statutory marketing authorities must be assessed in relation to the circumstances of the industry. The leadership must have a dynamic influence on the industry it leads. There is no room for outdated attitudes and sterile thinking. However, amid the fervour of reformist zeal there should be a clear understanding of basic principles. The grower is the owner of the commodity he produces and he should be responsible for the terms of its disposal. 
Traditionally statutory marketing boards have embodied a strong degree of grower representation. The concept of grower control on marketing boards may offend the economic purist. There may be more qualified people in a particular 'area of agriculture to deliberate on marketing policy than are available among growers. That, however, is not the point. The point is that the same democratic principles that govern the administration of this nation should govern the administration of these boards and in particular, of course, the Wine Board. Members of Parliament may not be the most efficient, knowledgeable or expert people to deal with the complexities of national legislation or administration. Neither may State politicians or shire councillors or city aldermen. A Minister holding a portfolio may in academic terms be less proficient than his Public Service subordinates. The point is that such people represent those whom they administer. They are responsible to them and responsive to their problems. If they make mistakes they answer to those who elect them. They represent, however inadequately or abstractly, the wishes and aspirations of others. If the Minister for Primary Industry changes grower control or marketing boards he will change more than legislation. He will change a principle that is broadly significant. The objective is efficiency. The overriding concern is democracy. I believe that there should be a reappraisal of marketing boards and they should be upgraded as much as possible but if the price is the ending of grower influence then that price is unacceptably high. 
I make these comments because the Australian Wine Board, along with other boards, is being examined by this Government and I wish to state my attitude clearly on this industry and on the structure of this board. I do not oppose this legislation. It is of a machinery nature. But it is important to draw attention to the wider issues involved in consideration of the future role of rural marketing organisations in this country. The wine makers fear the heavy blows which legislation will impose on their industry. Although, apart from the brandy imbibers, the wine drinkers got off scot free in last week's Budget some severe blows are being dealt to the industry. For instance, the method of valuing wine stocks has been interfered with. Brandy wine and wine are commodities which mature over a number of years. The old method of valuing wine stocks was 15c a bottle. This new method will certainly impose very heavy penalties on vineyards, wineries and all those associated with the wine business. It will place enormous financial strains on all established wine making businesses. Wine making and grape growing are not nearly as efficient as seems to be popularly believed. Probably no other business gives such a small return on the funds invested as does the wine making industry. In my own area - I know this goes for most vineyard areas throughout Australia - a lot of small people in the industry will find it extremely difficult to meet this impost. Another slug has been placed on brandy wine, which is a stimulant and is given to invalids. Under this new method there is no doubt whatever that the price of brandy could double. This could place a severe strain on invalids and other people who consume brandy for medicinal purposes. 
That is right. The honourable member and I know of people who have to use brandy in this way. They are not inebriates but they use brandy for medicinal purposes. If they have to pay twice the price for a bottle of brandy this will be a very severe additional cost to them. There is great disquiet in the industry despite the Government's insistence that wine stocks are no different from any other product. Few products take as long to make as wine. Wine, through a long period of maturation, could be considered as work in progress. This would be a much fairer method of valuing wine stocks. Work in progress is an accepted method in industry such as the engineering and building industries. Why could not the Government give consideration to the valuation of wine stocks on this basis? This would give the wine growers an opportunity to spread the impost over a period instead of being faced with a sudden method of valuing which will affect them considerably financially. 
Over many years brandy has proved to be the only outlet for surplus grapes. However the process makes it a more expensive spirit than that produced from grain or vinegar products. Besides the fact that all spirits will be more expensive and therefore less attractive to the consumer than they have been in the past, the loss of the duty advantage for brandy will make it more expensive again and this will have a disastrous effect on sales. This is particularly so when local brandy is suffering some market disfavour because of cheaper brandies coming in, particularly from France. This will mean an intensity of the problems faced by those engaged in this industry. This could really push the small family winery into severe difficulties. In addition to all the factors I have mentioned the family wineries will have to meet a far higher taxation bill in the future, following the increase in private company tax. We all know that family companies in this industry have received the benefit of the private rate of income tax which is applicable to private companies. Now they will have to pay the same tax as public companies. This is another imposition which will severely affect the small private companies operating in the wine business. 
As I mentioned earlier, when we were in government and imposed an excise on wine which brought the Federal authorities something like $10m we were howled down by honourable members like the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and by others for this iniquitous tax. We find, when we investigate the efforts of the present Government in the wine and vineyard area, that it has not imposed a charge of $10m but something of the order of $20m. As mentioned earlier, this will severely affect vineyards throughout Australia, it will severely affect our opportunities for exporting wines and of competing with overseas countries in export markets and in Australia it will have an upward effect on the price of wine and brandy products. I bring these facts forward for the consideration of the Government. The Opposition feels that these taxes are excessive and are not in the interests of the wine growing industry which has stood on its feet for many years and has never asked any government for assistance. Any development or any progress that it has made has been entirely by its own initiative and by its own efforts. I deplore the fact that the Government has hit the industry so severely in this way. I commend my remarks to the attention of members of the Government and those who could possibly lessen the burden which has been placed on the vineyards and wineries. 
 We have just listened to a very lucid speech by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  particularly in regard to the matter of export incomes and the continuance of the export incentive scheme. The Export Incentives Grants Bill as it is presented to us in a machinery measure. The first 2 items relate to amendments to marketing boards and gold pro'ducers. We consider that the second portion is the most important section; that is the one which continues the present export incentive scheme for another year. Of course what will happen after 30 June 1974 is anybody's guess. This is the section of the legislation with which we are vitally concerned. Export incentives are essential to our manufacturers to maintain their overseas trade, and Australia lives by exporting goods. The economy of our nation is very seriously involved with our export trade and it would be most detrimental indeed to interfere with that trade by adopting a suggestion that export incentives should be abolished. 
Over the years we have built up a great export trade in primary products. However, this Bill deals with our manufactured goods. If we examine our manufacturing industries we find that over the years they have developed considerably. One of the reasons for this is that they have been assisted by export incentives. Many industries producing manufactured goods depend upon overseas earnings. I refer to our motor car industry, our heavy earth moving and agricultural machinery industry, our electrical goods industries and many others which have been helped by this export incentive. It is in the national interest that export incentives be maintained and applied to all manufacturing export companies based in Australia. The national interest will be best served only if the existing scheme is reviewed and upgraded in the light of such factors as revaluation and increased shipping freight costs. 
The jobs of many thousands of Australians who are employed directly or indirectly in producing and marketing export products will be in danger unless the present scheme is at least maintained. We say that an extension of only 1 year is not sufficient to give the manufacturing concerns in this country time to p'an their capital investment and their staffing to take care of their whole industry. I urge the Government to reject any recommendations which suggest that the incentive scheme should be applied selectively, such as by excluding companies with any degree of overseas ownership. Companies established in Australia, even those with significant overseas ownership, should not be unduly penalised as they provide employment, government revenue and products for the Australian market. It must be remembered that the manufacturing workforce is distributed among both Australian owned manufacturing companies and locally based foreign owned companies, which are in exactly the same position as are our Australian companies as, in many cases, exports have become a vital element in the economics of their total operation. If those companies lose markets, production and employment in this country must be affected, and not only in the individual companies themselves; the effect would extend also to their suppliers. 
It has been due largely to the export incentive scheme that Australian based companies with overseas affiliations have been able to break franchise restrictions imposed by their principals. There have been many instances where this has been of great benefit to Australia. If these companies lose their incentives, they will to some extent vacate markets which again will be served by overseas principals. I have looked at what the incentive scheme is costing the revenue of this country in budgetary terms. In 1971-72, the loss of revenue to the Federal Treasury from this export incentive scheme was of the order of $58.7m; in 1972-73, it was of the order of $58m; and, it is estimated that in the current fiscal year of 
J  973-74 it will be of the order of $74m. Of course, this takes account also of a rebate of payroll tax and special grants made under this legislation. So I think honourable members will agree that the benefits that are derived from the increased export income produced by our manufactured goods, together with the great employment that the increased production provides in this country and the economic benefits which accrue to us, far outweigh what I have quoted as being the cost to the Australian Treasury. Those figures are rather illuminating when one considers that there are many thousands of millions of dollars coming into Australia from the export of our manufactured goods. Our export income has increased year by year and, if we retain our export incentives, this will be the story in the years ahead. However, if we damage the manufacturing companies which produce goods for export, this expansion could be severely curtailed. 
It has been interesting to look at the present Government's thinking on export incentives and to note the varying opinions of the Prime Minister (Mr Whitlam) and the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  The Minister for Overseas Trade said recently that the decision to extend the export incentive schemes until 30 June 1974 would stimulate increased business confidence with beneficial effects on investment decisions and employ- ment prospects in Australia. He said that the Government's decision to extend the incentives, therefore, should be welcomed by both employers and employees alike. He said also that the export incentives were designed particularly to encourage the export of manufactured goods. The manufacturing sector is a significant employer of labour - almost 30 per cent of the work force is engaged directly in the manufacturing sector. The Minister for Overseas Trade went on to say that the benefits which flow to the economy and to the country from a high level of export activity in a manufacturing sector include improved economies of scale and reduced unit costs, the safeguarding of local employment, the development of new skills and technologies and the development of a more competitive and innovative approach. The Minister concluded these few words by saying: 
The nation can only benefit from the increasing competitive experience of exporting industries. 
The same gentleman was interviewed on the television program 'Federal File' on 17 June this year. I arn quoting statements made by  Dr J.  F. Cairns because there is a difference of opinion in the Cabinet of the Australian Government as to whether this scheme should be continued or abolished and I believe that it is important that these things should be brought to light. During the interview the Minister was asked the following question: 
Take motor cars as an example; this would possibly mean that our motor car industry would be cut by about 20 per cent. 
In reply to this question, the Minister for Overseas Trade said: 
It could mean that. About 20 per  cent of the motor car industry is exported and if they in fact depend upon the export incentives - and I'm not sure they do that level of exports - now if we remove completely the export incentive provisions, then it might mean that the production of motor cars in Australia would fall 20 per cent. And if they did a lot of people who work in the motor car industry would be out of work. 
That is the opinion of the Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry of this country. He has made several other similar statements. On 22 June he reaffirmed that he wanted export incentives to continue. 
There is no doubt that this issue has caused friction between the Minister, the Treasurer and the Prime Minister. What has the Prime Minister to say? In Canberra on 19 June he made a stinging criticism of the incentive scheme under which the Federal Government this year will pay to Australian industries more than $90m to encourage exports. The latest figure that I quoted here a few moments ago was of the order of $74m, so the Prime Minister has apparently extended that figure to suit his own purpose. He disclosed for the first time that in Cabinet discussions last March he had supported the Federal Treasurer in attempting to end the export incentive scheme. 
These are the things with which we are concerned. These are the things with which the Country Party is vitally concerned because they indicate to us an extension of only 12 months in the export incentive scheme, which could at the end of that time be cut out altogether, with very drastic economic results to Australia and to our manufacturing industries. We have for years in this country been endeavouring to assist and promote our manufacturing industries to create employment for a growing population, and we certainly do not support anything that adversely affects that objective, lt is good to know that Australian manufacturers are planning to submit proposals to the Government for a new highly selective system of export incentives. I am not saying that the old scheme was perfect, so it is good to see that the manufacturers organisations themselves are coming forward to the Government with some suggestions about a replacement for the existing scheme, which has come under heavy criticism from the Prime Minister. 
A spokesman for the Associated Chambers of Manufactures very recently said that manufactures recognised that it was up to them to come up with some alternative suggestion. The various State chambers of manufactures are working on new proposals. These manufacturers' organisations hope to have their proposals ready to hand to the Government by September or October. I hope there will be some meat in these proposals that will persuade the present Government to continue the export incentive scheme far beyond 30 June 1974. With the Government committed to including the existing scheme in the next Budget manufacturers have until 30 June next year to press their case for the need for incentives. I have already stated that. 
Under the current system payments can be made to selling organisations which are not manufacturers. This is one of the weaknesses of the present scheme. Under the present scheme payment is calculated on the value of an exporter's overseas sales over a 2-year period. The exporter receives a grant worth 10i per cent of the difference between his first year's sales and his second year's sales. Manufacturers would argue that the payment was in no way a reward for exporting, that instead it was an important incentive to develop new export markets even if it meant losing money on the first year of operation. As an initial move to back their case a combined manufacturers export council is having a booklet published and circulated to members of the Governnent - 'and I have no doubt it will be circulated to members of the Opposition - which should give further valuable information as to why export incentives should be continued. 
Exports are running at $5,000m annually and export earnings represent about 14 per cent of Australia's gross national product. When the 1972-73 figures are known the figure as a percentage of gross national product is likely to reach 17 per cent. But for this vital sector of the economy there are as yet no clear cut government policies. The manufacturers have warned against relying on primary products and minerals for export earnings. World demand and prices for primary products and minerals are notoriously unstable and subject to wide fluctuations, but of course as a member of the Country Party I support an extension of the export of our primary products. They are now our most important export earners, but they have to be supplemented by the exports of our manufacturing industries. Commodity prices are much more severely influenced by international currency fluctuation than are the prices of manufactured goods. In 1971-72 Australian exports totalled $4,727m and imports were of the order of $3,790m, leaving a credit balance of $937m on our trading account. But after the net cost of invisibles was deducted the balance of payments on current account was in the red to the tune of $434m. 
This fact leaves very little room for complacency. As I said earlier in this speech, we are very concerned that the present export incentive scheme has been extended only to 30 June 1974. This gives our manufacturing industries no opportunity to plan for staffing and for provision of capital expenditure on new machinery to improve their product. It gives them no incentive to develop the industry with resultant profit to Australia by increased exports. Let the Federal Cabinet get down to some good sane thinking. In this instance we are on the side of the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry against the Prime Minister and the Treasurer. It is quite evident from the facts that I have given this afternoon that there is a wide difference of opinion between these 3 top men in the Cabinet, but there should be no difference in opinion as to the benefit to Australia by continuing the export incentive scheme. We support the legislation as it is brought down and we urge that this matter be looked at very carefully indeed. 
The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  gave a very good exposition of the meat industry and its problems, which will be accelerated by this legislation we are dealing with tonight. It is ill-conceived and it has been drafted in haste. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  brought up again in this debate the matter of the shortage of meat inspectors. This is possibly because of the great amount of meat which is now being shipped overseas from Australia which means that more meat inspectors are now at the various export works throughout Australia. I agree with him for once that there is a duplication of meat inspection in Australia which, I feel sure, with the cooperation of the State governments and those concerned with the meat industry could be overcome. In some areas we have local meat inspectors, State meat inspectors and Department of Primary Industry meat inspectors. What a wasteful duplication of service this is. When I was a member of the Legislative Assembly in New South Wales this problem often cropped up when we were speaking about the meat industry, but no one did anything about it. It would appear that the Department of Primary Industry people will not give way to the State authorities and vice versa. So there is in effect in this field - and it is a costly field - a real stalemate. 
I have here a cutting from a recent edition of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' which contains a statement which the honourable member for Eden-Monaro made about a tax on export meat and which he refuted in this chamber tonight. This is what the 'Sydney Morning Herald' had to say: 
A member of the committee,  Mr R.  B. Whan (ALP, NSW), said tonight that there appeared to be only 2 things that could be done- to bring in some form of domestic quota or a tax on exported beef. 
The most workable appeared to be the export tax. This had the most likelihood of succeeding and bringing down domestic prices. 
His personal view was that the tax would need to be very high. 
The primary producers and the electors of Eden-Monaro would be delighted to hear this statement by the honourable member: 
There would have to be a tax on all exported meat - beef in particular - collected by the Australian Government and returned as a payment to producers who sold cattle in the saleyards. 
The report went on: 
Asked if the figure would be something like 20c, he replied: 'I don't know. I'm sure nobody could tell until the market was tested'. 
It would be necessary to test it gradually. 
Those are the remarks of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro and he has in this House tonight turned a sugar doodle with regard to that statement which was reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald', which I take it is a reliable newspaper. 
The charge under the legislation we are dealing with tonight will be 1.6c per lb on meat and edible offals derived from cattle and calves, and lc per lb on meat and edible offals derived from sheep, lambs, goats and pigs. This is rather strange when in the Budget figures which were produced in this House, a provision of only lc per lb was mentioned. Now we find, when the fine print comes through, that it is to the order of 1.6c per lb. The charges under the Bill are to operate for 33 months from 1 October 1973 to 30 June 1976. In the second reading speech the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  stated that the charge is being made to cover the cost of meat inspection, which has grown with the huge increase in meat exported from Australia. It is noted that the cost of meat inspection has grown considerably in recent years and it now stands at approximately $ 11.4m. Furthermore, there are now 1,726 veterinarians and meat inspectors employed in our export works. 
The Minister went on to say that this particular charge is not intended to be a means of diverting supplies of export meat to the domestic market. He further stated that with strong demand for Australian meat it is not expected that the charge will be passed back to the primary producer. I think this is wishful thinking on the part of the Minister because we have heard so often in the past that something will not be passed back to the primary producer, but the primary producer is at the end of the line and it is jolly well passed back to him every time. The producer is always the one to be penalised in the final analysis. 
Originally the export charge was to pay for meat inspection. Now we find this additional 0.6c for tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication expenses. The Government is full of surprises. It would appear from acts of the present Government that it is hell bent on interfering with one of our greatest industries, our biggest primary industry apart from wool, our second biggest export industry, which was worth $859m in 1972-73, and if it is not interfered with too much its value will increase and its exports will bring great benefits to Australia and stabilise our economy, which is under threat at the present time. We have established through our growers, our export works and our meat exporters very valuable markets. These markets have been built up over a number of years and they will be broken down very quickly if we are to have legislation of this nature popped on us every week or so. 
What a market for meat the United States of America is. Up to the end of last June $337m worth of Australian meat had been exported to that market. It is the second biggest market we have developed and it will expand in the future. The Japanese market is worth $112m. Our third biggest market is the United Kingdom. It is expected that when the United Kingdom goes into the European Economic Community this market will not be lost but it will be built up. As a matter of fact the European Economic Community will be in the market for some 600,000 tons of beef within the next 4 or S years, and we in this country hope to get our share of that market. The Canadian market is worth $26m. Those figures must surely show that this industry is a colossal industry. The fact that this is a colossal industry providing great economic benefits to Australia does not mean that it should be down trodden by taxing it at every level. 'Meat' is not a dirty word. 'Meat' is a word which we should cherish in Australia because it is bringing us prosperity. It is bringing us great economic benefits. It is one of the greatest means of decentralising industry in Australia. Hundreds of thousands of people right across the length and breadth of Australia are employed in the meat industry. It is an industry with which I have been associated through a big export works for a long time and I know just what is taking place in the industry. I know the trials and tribulations which it has gone through over the years, the tremendous amount of finance that has been needed to build these works, to expand them and to encourage the primary producer to go in and develop the beef industry so that we can feed these great works. 
The industry has been built up by a very careful operation over a period of years and it is now a great decentralised industry. We talk about decentralisation, yet we have seen acts by this Government in the last few weeks that have absolutely killed decentralisation in Australia. Do not let us kill this industry. Why pick on the meat industry? As my colleague the honourable member for New England has said, the tax which will be applied under these 2 Bills will be of the order of $63.9m. 
It is not rubbish at all. The honourable member for New England has produced those figures. When one considers that lc per lb will amount to something like $6 on a decent size carcass one can see that it will soon total $63.9m and more. Primary producers have been badly hit by droughts over the last 4 or 5 years. They have poor prices for their products and are indebted to the financial institutions, including banks, to the order of $3, 200m. Many have heavy overdrafts. Just when these people have the opportunity to pay back their debts and to get themselves onto a sound footing, we find that the Government is endeavouring to dampen financial enthusiasm in the industry. 
We are going to want a lot more incentives in the industry. We are going in now for cattle feed lots. In the New England electorate there is one at Bective with 3,000 head of cattle and there are three in my area at Caroona, Spring Ridge and Quirindi. With incentives these feed lots will develop further export markets for this country. This Government wants to do everything it can to dampen the financial enthusiasm of this industry. This move has come on top of 2 revaluations and withdrawal of export incentives in the meat industry which have knocked the primary producer. This Government withdrew meat export incentives which were introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government, which stimulated the meat industry and which helped it to develop markets overseas, and now we have these further charges. I believe that in the next few weeks we will see in this Parliament a proposition to place an export levy of 10c per lb on beef going from Australia. 
Yes, I know. The honourable member would like to own a paddock of bulls today. They are good value. It would not hurt him to own a couple. This means that on beef going overseas the export levy would be something like $60 to $70 per beast. I saw in tonight's newspaper that it is proposed to hand back to primary producers some of this money. What absolute nonsense this is. As I said earlier, there is not a chance of this happening. The primary producer is the one at the end of the line who is socked. If this tax is introduced it could be the ruination of a great industry. It will affect primary producers right across Australia. Honourable members in this House, whether they be from the Labor, Liberal or Country Party, have received hundreds of telegrams condemning the proposal of the Government to place this levy on export meat. There is no denying that. I will bet that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who is the honourable member for Riverina has received his share. I know that one honourable member on his side of the House has received 150 telegrams. I have received something like seventy-five. This shows the concern of meat producers in this country over the action of the Government. 
We know that 60 per cent of our meat produced in Australia is exported, 40 per cent going to the local market. There is great concern over the price that is being charged on our local market for meat but when we look at the inflation that has taken place, meat is relatively no dearer today than it was some 4 or 5 years ago. We still have the second lowest meat prices in the world. The way to bring benefits to our local market is to step up production in this country. An increase of 10 per cent in beef supplies over a 3 months period in New South Wales alone would result in a 4 per cent fall in cattle prices at our main market, Homebush. We should not be denigrating and knocking this industry. We should be promoting it and increasing its production. We cannot do away with supply and demand and with increased supply there is no doubt whatever that the price of meat on our local market would come down. I support the amendment that is to be moved by the honourable member for New England. I deplore any attack made on this great meat industry which has been developed over many years with great expertise and with great amount of capital. 
This Bill must be a disappointment to the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  who is sitting at the table, because he was the Minister who, on behalf of the LiberalCountry Party Government, introduced legislation to provide freight benefits for people living in remote parts of Australia. It must be extremely disappointing for the honourable member to hear members of the present Government Party support the destruction of the legislation which he and his Government introduced and which has been so beneficial right across the board. 
We have just heard a speech from the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who is now gathering his papers in preparation for a quick departure. It took 3 preselection ballots to bring him into this House and I am sure that, when the people of Shortland hear that he is sponsoring an increase in the price of motor spirit and distillate to the order of 7c a gallon, they will want to have another pre-selection ballot. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I do not think that is a point of order. 
The increase proposed in this Bill is 1.7c or near enough to 2c a gallon. This Government also has increased the duty paid on petrol by 5c a gallon. According to my arithmetic, if 2c is added to that amount the total is 7c. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Doyle)  who spoke earlier in this debate, condemned the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  for saying that the retention of this subsidy was of great benefit to decentralisation. The honourable member may not be interested in decentralisation, but we members of the Liberal and Country Parties are because if we do not spread our population right across Australia we will be in trouble. i point out to honourable members opposite that 75 per cent of our population is situated on the seaboard and that there is a drift of population to the cities. There will continue to be a drift of population to the cities while this Government is in power and while it brings in legislation of the kind now before us. We members of the Country Party are concerned with every man, woman and child living in this country. Over the years members of our Party have played a responsible part with the Liberals in government and have had regard for all matters relating to people living in this great country. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  went off like a fire cracker when he talked about petrol being sold in Victoria by XL Petroleum Pty Ltd and the Independent Oil Co. Pty Ltd 10c a gallon cheaper than elsewhere. Those companies have no responsibility in the petroleum industry of Australia. They just bring their fuel into Australia. They have no bulk terminals or transport organisations; consequently they have no overhead. Their exercise is a very limited one because they have only a limited amount of fuel. If they wanted to get into the petroleum industry in a proper way or in a way in which they would provide real opposition to the major petroleum companies, their costs would go up and they would not be able to compete. 
As I have said, this legislation is a great blow to decentralisation. When we take into consideration the fact that the transport of all our goods to country areas is dependent on fuel, whether the goods go by rail or road transport which of course now represents a big percentage of transport traffic it means an added cost to the people living in the country, to the industry that has been developing in the country and to the great pastoral industries in the country. When our great primary industries and secondary industries which are established in the provincial cities and country towns are faced with an increased loading of 7c a gallon then up will go their costs and up will go the inflationary trend. When those industries market their goods they will be faced with the same iniquitous cost. The price of meat and the price of other commodities cannot be reduced when costs of production are increased. This is just too silly to contemplate. 
In September 1965, a Bill was brought in by the Liberal-Country Party Government for the purpose of making payments to the States to provided a subsidy on the distribution of petroleum products in country areas including motor spirit and distillate. Of course today distillate is playing a very prominent part in transport costs because the big transport lorries are nearly all diesel operated. The previous Government proposed that it would cut rural costs by bringing in this subsidy on freight. It proposed to bring this about by legislating that the normal prices of these products would nowhere in Australia be more than 4c a gallon above the level of capital city prices but of course with the introduction of decimal currency this has now been reduced to 3.3c a gallon. That Government put that proposal into effect by arrangement with the Australian petroleum companies and by arrangement with the States. I was a member of the State Government of New South Wales at that time which had to bring in complementary legislation in order to make that proposal effective in that State. So this Bill was a good Bill. It helped decentralisation. It helped people living in the great country areas of Australia. 
We find when we read the reports of the debates that took place at that time that those honourable members who now occupy seats on the Government side of the House and who seek to eliminate through this legislation this concession all spoke in favour of that subsidy. They spoke in favour of a Bill which proposed to give this concession to the people living in country areas. Now they have made an about face and seek to eliminate that concession. The honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  in a debate that took place on 12 May 1965 said:  for 17 months people living in country districts have waited for the Government to honour a promise made by the Prime Minister . . . This Bill has as its objective the redemption of the Prime Minister's promise. The Bill seeks, with the co-operation of the States and the oil companies, to establish a petrol policy for the States and to make it possible by this means for people to purchase petrol throughout each State at a price which will be no higher than 4d. a gallon above the ruling capital city prices. The Opposition deplores the delay in the presentation of this measure and regrets that consumers will have to wait until 1st October - almost two years after the promise was made - to obtain petrol at lower prices. 
The Opposition, whose policy was to obtain a uniform price for petrol throughout Australia, does not oppose the Bill. 
The honourable member said, in effect: 'We support it'. The same honourable member, along with his colleagues will of course support the present legislation which will eliminate something that they were in favour of at that time. I will give another example. The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  said: 
I have often wondered during the several occasions when this matter has been discussed why, there should not be a uniform price for petrol througout Australia. 
He went on to support the legislation which had been introduced. The withdrawal of the subsidy on petroleum products will increase costs in the various States by something of the order of the amount by which the Government is at present subsidising freights. The most recent figures I have on the subsidy which is being paid at present are for 1972-73. In that year the cost to the Government of the subsidy in New South Wales was $6.379m. In Victoria is was $lm. In Queensland, with its vast size, sparse population and large distances between towns, it was $9m. Queensland was the State which benefited most from the legislation which was introduced by the honourable member for Farrer in the government of the time. South Australia received Sim and Western Australia received $5m. Little Tasmania, where everything is nicely situated, received $170,000. The total subsidy for the whole of Australia was $25m. The withdrawal of this freight subsidy or freight differential, as it should be known, on distillate and petrol will have a serious financial effect on transport costs. It will be of the order of the amount of money the Government was paying by way of the differential. 
This is just another example of the attempt by the Government to discriminate between people living in country areas and people living in metropolitan areas. It is another move against the people who live in the country areas of Australia. One has only to examine 'the legislation which the Labor Government has introduced since taking office to ascertain that it has introduced many measures which will seriously affect the living costs of people in country areas of Australia. The Opposition deplores the Government's actions. They will ultimately - perhaps in the next 9 to 12 months - have a very serious effect on country areas. Primary producers and those in country towns who depend upon primary production for their livelihood are going to be seriously affected. Primary producers, who are just recovering from the great problems that they have experienced in the last few years, including 4 years of drought and poor prices for their commodities, are now being thumped by the present Government with charges right across the board. In the meat industry, the wheat industry or any other primary industry any honourable member cares to name the Government is discriminating against primary producers and country people. These people have a very marked effect on the economy of Australia. City people should realise that if things are not prosperous in our great rural areas they are not prosperous in our cities. That has taken some time to filter through to the cities. Look what happened to our secondary industries when severe drought waa experienced in our country areas. The people who made agricultural machinery and trucks felt the effects of it within 12 months and many of them lost their jobs. There was unemployment throughout the land. Now that prosperity has returned to our great primary industries we find the employment situation is improving and there is full employment. I very much deplore this legislation. 
I rise tonight to mention briefly the matter of tourism. I am pleased to note that the Minister for Tourism  (Mr Stewart)  is in the chamber. Tourism in Australia is somewhat of a Cinderella but I feel that the Government is on the right track in increasing the Budget expenditure on this item. This year it is proposed that the expenditure shall increase from $2.3m to $5.8m. This certainly has given the Minister a little more muscle for him to develop the portfolio which has been allocated to him. Even so, considerably more money should be made available to this portfolio if we are to see any real development of the tourist industry in Australia. I note with interest that recently a meeting of the various tourist authorities in Australia was called at which arrangements were made for SI. 75m of Federal grants to be allocated to the various States. In my own State of New South Wales is a most active tourist bureau. The various country associations are doing an excellent job in promoting tourism in particular areas. 
 The honourable member for Gwydir is aware that I was foundation  President  of the North-West Tourist Association in the area he mentioned. One aspect which is very worrying is that last year in Australia the tourist trade increased by only one per cent. We must increase our tourist trade by a greater percentage because if we look at figures related to world tourist trade Australia is well down the list. Australian tourists overseas are big spenders so we must increase the number of incoming tourists to Australia otherwise Australia will go down the drain in this field. Last year from tourism we received a dismal one per cent increase in revenue - from $13 8m the previous year to $148m. 
Australia has much to offer to tourists and we should be doing more to attract overseas tourists here. Although this may be an invisible industry it is important and one that we should be developing with all the facilities that we can provide. In my own area, as I mentioned in this House two or three weeks ago, we have some magnificent tourist attractions. Let me start by mentioning the Newcastle area with its great beaches, Lake Macquarie, and the city of Maitland which is styled the hub of the Hunter. The Maitland district has many spots of great tourist interest. At the present time there are many organised tours into this area from Sydney. They make trips to Gresford, Lowstock Dam, the vineyards at Pokolbin, Dalwood Estates and Wyndham right up the Hunter to Muswellbrook, Denman and Sandy Hollow. At Scone there are the famous cattle studs and horse studs and also the Glenbawn Dam and Burning Mountain at Wingen. These are great attractions and should be publicised. 
Recently the Australian Tourist Commission sent an officer to Merriwa in this area to have a look at a dude ranch there and also to have a look at the Glenbawn Dam. Immediately it was publicised in the Press that an officer from the Australian Tourist Commission would visit the area, letters came in from all directions asking when he would be coming. He visited the area and inspected these 2 projects I mentioned. Then I received a letter from a  Mr L.  J. St Hill, the executive officer of the Department of Decentralisation and Development at Toronto.  His  letter read as follows: 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. It concerns the use of the bond rate to force up interest. Is it true that Australia's largest life assurance companies have frozen loans and in many instances are refusing to complete loan transactions? Is this because they cannot lend money because intending borrowers cannot be quoted terms? Have some of these companies stated that until the position clarifies they will not be making housing loans? Will the Prime Minister and his Government give some lead and decision in this field so that normal lending operations can be resumed with benefit to the nation? 
4 rise to support the 3 Bills which we are debating, the Aged Persons Homes Bill, the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill and the States Grants (Home Care) Bill. No doubt the Government brought these measures down because, with inflation raging as it is, it is essential that some assistance be given immediately in the 3 fields of social welfare which these 3 Bills cover. Legislation in favour of aged persons surely has the support of all honourable members, irrespective of the side of the House on which they sit. Irrespective of whether they belong to the Liberal Party of Australia, the Australian Country Party or the Australian Labor Party, I feel sure that all members of the House are in support of this legislation and in favour of the giving of more assistance to aged people in the various fields. 
The Aged Persons Homes Act was originally introduced in 1954 by the Menzies Government in order to encourage and assist religious, charitable and ex-service organisations which were providing homes for aged persons to expand their activities or, if they were not already doing so, to induce them to enter the field. There is no doubt that the Act has been most successful over the years in this regard. It has enjoyed a great deal of success in the 19 years of its operation. Grants totalling $171m have been approved and accommodation made available for approximately 50,000 people in Australia under the aged persons homes legislation. 
Legislation which the Liberal-Country Party Government introduced in this House last year has enabled institutions and homes which had not previously participated in the $2 for $1 subsidy to do so. It has allowed many of the older institutions to provide up-to-date facilities for aged persons. The introduction of that legislation last year was met with great acclaim right across the board. Many charitable and religious organisations have taken advantage of it. In my own electorate of Paterson three or four institutions have taken up the challenge of the Government and decided to go ahead and build new installations. The first one to come to mind is the Yates Memorial Home at Singleton, which is conducted by the Methodist Church. It has accepted the Government's offer and is going ahead with the building of new units for aged people. That will be of great benefit to the area. 
The Maitland Benevolent Society, which is 107 years old, also has accepted the responsibility of erecting new accommodation. In this instance the grants to be made available to this institution will toe of the order of $467,000. Last Saturday week I had the privilege of opening a fete for the Society. A fete is conducted once a year by an excellent committee for the raising of funds for the Society, which provides excellent accommodation for aged people in Maitland and in the Hunter Valley. Aged people are well looked after in this institution. When the building of the new units is completed more accommodation will be available for aged people in the area. St Joseph's Convent at Lochinvar, which is also in my electorate, will qualify for assistance under the Aged Persons Homes Act. It intends to provide 84 beds and furnishings at a total cost of approximately $676,000. This proposition is being investigated at the present time. I have no doubt that arrangements will be made after the architect has completed the preparation of plans for this institution for work to go ahead and for new units to be built to accommodate aged persons. The Convent of Mercy at Singleton also will benefit from the legislation, although in a smaller way. 
I have read carefully the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and have noted that it is his desire and the Government's belief that residents of aged persons homes should be allowed to elect representatives to the boards of management of their homes. My observation, from visiting these homes, has been that the aged people in them have no desire to undertake any further responsibilities. Most of them are pioneers who have paid their taxes over the years, who have reared their families, who have accepted their responsibilities in the past and who are now happy to stay in these homes, in which they are extremely well cared for, without having to accept any responsibilities. Although I think the Minister was full of good intentions when he brought forward this suggestion, I do not think it will meet with the success that the Minister is apparently hoping for. 
The Minister for Social Security has also stated that he is disappointed with the response to the Aged Persons Homes Act by local government bodies. These bodies became eligible to avail themselves of the provisions of the Act as a result of an amendment to it in 1967. Grants to municipal and shire councils have totalled only $2.2m and have provided accommodation for fewer than 500 people. That is no doubt disappointing, but one has to take into consideration the tremendous demands made upon all local government bodies to do all sorts of things. It is very difficult for them to obtain and provide finance for the provision of aged persons' homes. I should say that there would not be a shire councillor or alderman who would not desire to participate in this field of social welfare. The trouble is that the councils are prevented from taking part by a lack of finance. 
It is interesting to note the organisations which have availed themselves of the $2 for SI subsidy over the years and the number of persons who have been accommodated toy organisations which have participated in the aged persons' homes scheme. A total of 1,143 religious organisations, 1,338 charitable and benevolent organisations, 34 ex-service organisations, 76 organisations approved by the Governor-General and 32 local government organisations have participated in the scheme. A total of 2,623 organisations have participated in it. As I mentioned previously, they are looking after approximately 50,000 aged people. I have also' mentioned the total amount of the grants provided. Whilst it is desirable to have local governments participating in the scheme, they have not the muscle to do so, although they are entering into the social services field in many ways. I feel - I think honourable members will agree with me - that social services are in the main the responsibility of the State and Federal governments. 
The Aged Persons Homes Bill seeks to increase the rate of subsidy from SIO a week to $12 a week, which will be of great benefit to the institutions providing homes for the aged. The Bill also provides for the amount of the subsidy to be calculated on the basis not only of the number of residents aged 80 years and over in a home but also in respect of any other residents - that is, those under 80 years of age - who also require and are receiving personal care in these institutions. I know that the people who are conducting these institutions will be very pleased indeed that the subsidy has been increased. No doubt it has been increased with good intention and by reason of the inflationary trend in our economy to help these institutes and their inmates. 
So much for the Aged Persons Homes Bill. I wish to speak very briefly, in the time that is available to me, about the Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill. The major aim of the Meals on Wheels organisation is to supply certain persons with one nutritious meal at least 5 times a week. Of course, the service provided goes far beyond that. To many elderly citizens in our community the delivery of these meals provides the only regular social contact they have. My wife and the wives of many other members of Parliament take part in the providing of Meals on Wheels services in the various communities from which they come. No doubt the aged folk are delighted to see these kindly people visiting their homes and providing them with nutritious hot meals. This contact ensures that frail or isolated people receive a daily check on their state of health. This is important as the people delivering the meals can see at first hand the health of the aged people. Meals on Wheels helpers frequently report that an elderly person is in need of attention. Meals on Wheels workers and all those wonderful people who have formed themselves into committees, who arrange for meals to be cooked and delivered to aged persons, are giving great service to the community and a great social service to those people who have been pioneers, who have helped this country develop and who have now reached the end of their service and are being looked after in this way. 
The Bill provides for a further subsidy of 5c per meal. Last year when the LiberalCountry Party was in government it increased the 5c allowance to 20c. This Government is carrying on the good work by increasing the allowance from 20c to 25c per meal. I support the legislation in its entirety. I hope it is the forerunner of more assistance to aged persons as time goes by. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of the Environment and Conservation I, like previous speakers, have no desire to attack the Government on this issue. An examination of the proposed expenditure of $1,729,000 this year as compared with the appropriation of $778,700 last year indicates that the Government is increasing its muscle in this field. I believe that more money, thought and action must be devoted to the conservation of our forests and our water resources and to protection of the environment which is most important from every point of view. Conservation, at its simplest, means the wise use of resources. The environment and, in particular, the countryside hold resources capable of many uses for agriculture and forestry, for water catchment purposes, for mineral workings, for settlement and, increasingly, for outdoor recreation. At the same time the rural environment is valued in a less tangible way for the culture and history of its community, for its wildlife, for the beauty of landscapes and, in some areas, for its remoteness. Environmental conservation is therefore concerned both with the quantity and quality of many different resources. 
Conservation of land for agriculture, for forestry or for leisure alone may not be in the best interests of environmental conservation as a whole which aims to harmonise all resources with the minimum of conflict. For example, wildlife cannot be conserved simply by the establishment of nature reserves. It is against this complexity of rural land use that the advantage and disadvantage of leisure activity must be seen. Increasing urban development, which destroys the countryside, is associated with increasing leisure activity. The visual effects of and pollution from industry and towns in the country side and on the coast are often damaging to leisure interests while the characteristic pollutants of leisure - litter, noise and vehicle exhaust fumes - cause problems for other resource uses. There are also many conflicts between modern agriculture and forestry and leisure activity. 
In 1971 it was my good fortune to accompany overseas a parliamentary delegation from the Federal Parliament. In our travels we were the guests in Great Britain of a pollution and environmental experimental station some miles Out. of London. There we were able to see at first hand the attack that has been made in Great Britain on pollution and methods of controlling pollution. I should like to see set up in Australia a similar experimental station on an Australian Government basis in complete co-operation with the States making every Tort to control this menace which is causing great concern in Australia. At the British experimental station we saw methods of breaking up oil slicks, a matter with which we arc daily concerned in Australia. In tonight'^ P:es' under the heading 'Reef birds - oil threat' there is a report of a giant oil slick sweeping towards the Barrier Reef and menacing two of north Queensland's biggest bird sanctuaries. We often see such reports relating to our sea coast, our rivers and our beaches. We must make every effort to stop this pollution which is causing considerable trouble. In Great Britain the Government has co-operated with the major oil companies, which provide ships, and ways and means have been devised by which oil slicks can quickly be broken up, thus alleviating the difficulties which follow from them. 
Contamination of rivers is another problem. The emptying of waste into our valuable river systems has caused great concern. We often read about oysters in our rivers being destroyed by detergents and industrial wastes being poured into our river systems. It was an eye-opener in London to see the control that is exercised in respect of the Thames River. We saw children catching fish at the London Bridge - something which has not been seen in England for perhaps 100 years - simply because of the great control that has been exercised over the emptying of waste into this wonderful river. It is something that should be followed in Australia. We are a young country and we can profit from the experiences and problems of overseas countries. We also witnessed in England the treatment of sewage. While I have no desire to drink water that has passed through a treatment plant, an engineer in charge of one of the pollution and environmental stations was quite happy to drink the water that had passed through the London sewers and had been treated in the London system. This is another aspect that we must look at. 
I was a keen surfer in my younger days and I was shocked to see the sewage pollution at lovely Bondi Beach and further down the coast while flying to Canberra today. It is a tragedy to see this raw sewage being emptied into the sea and polluting the finest beaches in the world. We as Australians should be ashamed to see this taking place. Let us hope that the State governments and the Government in Canberra co-operate to end this dreadful scene which members of Parliament can observe if their plane happens to fly over the sea near Sydney. This problem can be eradicated by putting some more muscle into pollution control and by giving the Minister for Environment and Conservation more finance to enable him to work in co-operation with the States so that this dreadful raw sewage is stopped from entering our coast and desecrating the lovely beaches about which I have spoken. 
The electorate of Paterson covers 187 miles of the New England Highway. The pollution by diesel trucks on our main highways in this country is shameful. If one is driving a nice clean car and passes a diesel truck with faulty atomisation, at the next town the car is covered with carbon. This filthy pollution could be stopped if some control were placed on the users of the diesel vehicles to see that the atomisation is in first class order and is not belching raw fuel into the atmosphere, contaminating those who have the misfortune to be driving in the vicinity or to have contact with the fumes. I feel we should be making every effort to devise ways and means to ensure that the atomisation is in first class order and that the pollution is stopped. This has been achieved in Great Britain. Controls are placed on vehicles there. In the week when I was in London I did not see very much pollution coming from road vehicles but in Australia it seems to be allowed to go on. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  said that we should be looking at the methods which are being adopted overseas to find ways and means of combating these problems. The honourable member for McKellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said that pollution and environmental control has mainly been in the hands of the States. This is true but I feel that the Minister for Environment and Conservation will agree that we should be using our best endeavours to co-operate with the States to do whatever we can to improve our environment and to eliminate pollution. 
I desire to take part in this discussion on the statement which has been made by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I note with great interest his journeys in Japan, Korea and China and the discussions that he has had with the leaders of those countries. Japan, of course, is one of our most important customers. I have had compiled for me our latest trade figures with Japan. For the year ended 30 June last Australian exports to Japan were worth $1,933,946,000. This figure represents a tremendous increase over the previous years. We purchased in return from Japan $738,633,000 worth of goods. So there is an imbalance in our trade with Japan, and I have no doubt that the Minister discussed this point with the Japanese. 
It would be a mistake to believe that the Minister's statement represents the established views of the Australian Government. It could be even more of a mistake to assume that the Minister for Overseas Trade was able on his trip overseas to speak with authority about the Australian Government's policy. As a result it is difficult to distinguish in this statement between official thinking and the personal inclination of the Minister. This uncertainty is understandable and well founded. The Minister visited Tokyo and spoke with Government officials and leading businessmen. He told them that he approved Japanese equity in Australian enterprises provided there was Australian majority control and maximum processing in Australia. During his speech he said that the Australian Government recognises the value of foreign investment and technology. He admitted that the Government would wish to see a high level of Australian ownership, especially in uranium, oil, gas and coal.  His  message was one of qualified assurance and reassurance. Unfortunately there seems to be very poor liaison between the Minister for Overseas Trade and his less communicative colleague, the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  The Minister for Minerals and Energy will be visiting Japan in the very near future and he has said that all overseas investment in minerals and energy enterprises must be channelled through the Australian Industry Development Corporation. He sees no need for Japanese participation in the Pilbara development or the Redcliffs development. The Minister for Overseas Trade said in his statement: 
I see this concern for assurances with respect to the supply of raw materials as a legitimate concern on the part of the Japanese and one in which this Government is prepared to co-operate fully in helping to meet. 
Once again there seems to be a breakdown in Cabinet communications. The Minister for Minerals and Energy is refusing the export of natural gas from the North West Shelf. We all know that. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  defends action which prevents the securing of long term contracts for uranium exports from the Northern Territory to Japan. We thus have a very peculiar position of a Minister for Overseas Trade preaching goodwill and reassurance in Tokyo while his Cabinet colleagues back at home undermine his efforts. The Japanese are now in for an instructive lesson in open government. Labor style. The Minister for Minerals and Energy intends to embark on a lecture tour of Japan to explain his policy guidelines. I am sure he will have an attentive audience. Will he reiterate to the Japanese the attitude of the Minister for Overseas Trade that direct Japanese equity investment is permissible in our minerals and energy industries? Will he assure the Japanese in his incomparably soothing manner that we recognise the importance of the unimpeded supply of raw materials? I do not think so. 
While in Japan the Minister for Overseas Trade discussed with the Nissan and Toyota motor vehicle companies the Government's motor vehicle policy. This is a difficult task for any man to do. He made it quite clear that they would be very welcome to engage in the manufacture of motor vehicles in Australia. The whole matter of the Government's motor vehicle policy is a fascinating one. The market for motor vehicles in Australia is limited. There is competition between domestic manufacturers in this country and importers of cars from overseas. Yet at a time when the Government is trying to encourage domestic manufacturers we have appreciated our currency against the Japanese yen by 10 per cent since November and we have cut tariffs by 25 per cent. The Minister made great play on his overseas tour of the fact that we had cut our tariffs by 25 per cent, which would have a bearing on Australian imports from all the nations with whose officials he spoke. I hope that this cut of 25 per cent in tariffs does not mean that we will have a great pool of unemployment in this country by reason of the effects that it will have on our own industries. 
Car imports into the country are now surging ahead. Of course, there is the people's car which the Government wants to manufacture using the unused capacity of the aircraft industry. At present there is considerable unused capacity in the aircraft industry, particularly in the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. Government policy towards the rationalisation of this industry is still undecided. The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is opposed to private enterprise making money out of defence contracts. Yet although the Government's attitude on this matter is unclear the Minister for Overseas Trade proposes the development of a people's car in the factories that produce the Mirage aircraft. Perhaps this car should be similar in title. Once again there has been a breakdown of communications between the Minister for Overseas Trade and his Cabinet colleagues. 
In his statement the Minister made a triumphant reference to the 3-year wheat agreement with China. In this House he has linked this agreement with the policies of the Labor Government. Presumably the implication is that the Chinese decision to sign a 3-year wheat agreement was brought about only by the election of a Labor Government in December 1972. This is absolute rubbish, because the Chinese over the years have purchased Australian wheat when the price has been right and when the quality of our wheat has been to their liking. In 1949 they purchased all our damaged wheat when we had wet harvesting conditions. They took the lot because it was cheap and the price suited them. This has been the pattern of their operation over many years. In carrying the argument a little further, it follows from what the Minister implied that those governments that have similar philosophies to those of the Chinese Communist Government have the best chance for trade with Australia. However, the Chinese are more pragmatic than that. They buy wheat because of market factors and quality and because it fulfils a requirement in their economy. I need hardly say that wheat sales to Communist China from Australia did not begin on 2 'December 1972. One has only to go back over our trade figures to find that there have been many sales of wheat to China over the years. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade may be interested to know that the British Government and the Chinese Government are on the verge of concluding a massive industrial agreement. With the approval of the British Government, the Rolls Royce Co. in England is preparing to conclude an agreement with the Chinese Government involving the sale of about 800 Spey jet engines and the licence rights for the Chinese to manufacture this engine. Does the Minister really imagine that those negotiations have been brought about because of the sympathetic and compatible philosopies of the Heath Conservative Government? It is a pointless and futile exercise trying to extract political credit from a commercial agreement. It is also a futile exercise for the Minister to try to discredit the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  by quoting Chinese Ministers and their views. The only ones who could accurately say what the views of the Chinese Government are in this matter are the Chinese leaders themselves, and I would certainly not rely on the interpretation of the Minister for Overseas Trade to establish the facts. Perhaps one of the most controversial aspects of his trip was his continued contact with Prince Norodom Sihanouk. What did they discuss, and what authority did the Minister for Overseas Trade have to discuss relations between Cambodia and Australia with the leader of forces that are in military combat with  the  forces of the Government that Australia recognises? Was he discussing with Prince Norodom Sihanouk future trade relations? Was he discussing possible Australian investment in Cambodia? I think not. If he were discussing political matters, it is both an insult to the Government of Cambodia and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the present Australian Government. 
I referred earlier to the confused state of Australian trade policy. To compound the confusion the Minister for Overseas Trade said on 6 September this year that the Government might set up an overseas trading organisation to buy Australian products and sell them overseas. Exactly what does this mean? The confusion is understandable when it has been previously thought that one of the key roles of the AIDC was the channelling of the flow of exports to developing countries. Exactly where does the shadowy Minerals and Energy Authority fit in with the concept of the Minister for Overseas Trade of the Australian Government influencing the flow of exports to see that the poorer countries are treated fairly? 
What a confused perception of Australian trade policy must exist overseas as Government leaders and officials attempt to untangle the tangled web of Government policy statements and Ministerial pronouncements. I would, however, wish to assure the Parliament that the Minister for Overseas Trade, although not consulted about the latest revaluation of the dollar, is well able to speak with full authority on Government policy regarding multi-national corporations. He made considerable mention of these organisations in his statement and I feel that his speech to the American Chamber of Commerce in Sydney recently must be taken as the definitive Government statement on this matter. On this occasion he said to assembled businessmen on this matter: 
This is too short a period for us to be able to tell you what we want. We will be able to show in 12-18 months what we want you to do. 
He concluded on this reassuring note: 
Australia has been too predictable in the past; this is not the case now. 
I think that excerpt from his speech is a fitting comment on Government policy towards multinational corporations in particular and on trade and investment in general. Great play has been made on the statement with regard to our trade with China. Looking at the figures for 1972-73 I find that we have exported to China goods to the value of $62,849,000 and that we have purchased in return from them goods to the value of $49,924,000. It is quite understandable that these figures will increase. As I have said before, with the cutting of our tariffs cheaper textiles and goods will come in from China and textile industries in this country will be under threat unless the Government imposes quantitative restrictions or takes some action in this regard. Little Taiwan which the present Government booted out of this country when it took over purchased more goods from us than mainland China did. These are comments which I have been pleased to make concerning the statement of the Minister for Overseas Trade. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Is the increase in country telephone rentals causing great hardship to pensioner subscribers? Have they now to pay, with their one-third concession, $36.60 instead of $18  -  an increase of 100 per cent? Will many pensioners find it most difficult to maintain a telephone service under these circumstances? Can the Minister inform the House of any provision by the Government to give assistance to these people so that they may be able to maintain essential telephone communication? 
The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  is not correct. I did not attack the retail clothing trade in any manner at all. I said that the honourable member would know about the retail trade because he has 2 shops in the posh area of the northern suburbs of Sydney. That is all I said. The other remarks made by the honourable member are untrue. If he has a look at Hansard he will find that to be so. I thought that I was paying tribute to him, with his knowledge of the retail trade. It is quite true that I did indicate that he had 2 stores in posh suburbs. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)  - Order! The honourable member has already spoken twice in the debate. 

 Mi Cohen - I do not wish to- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! I think that the point has been made. I call the honourable member for Wimmera. 
I should like to take part in this debate on the estimates for the Department of Customs and Excise, the Department of Primary Industry, the Department of Overseas Trade and the Department of Secondary Industry. I should like to support the remarks made by honourable members on this side of the House particularly in regard to the diminution of funds for the 
Department of Primary Industry. The appropriation shows that there is a decrease in the allocation of funds and expenditure for this Department for this year. Provision is made for- ari expenditure of $50,391,000 as against an expenditure last year of $58,831,768. An examination of the figures indicates that in practically all sections of the Department of Primary Industry there has been a cut in expenditure. This, of course, is in line with the policy of the present Labor Government. It has made a raid on the great primary industries in no uncertain manner, irrespective of what its supporters have endeavoured to say in this debate this afternoon. Government supporters have said that conditions have never been better. This is not by reason of action taken by their Government; it is by reason of the wonderful season that agricultural and pastoral pursuits are having in Australia. The Government has had nothing to do with it. 
Over the last 4 years severe drought conditions have occurred and the indebtedness of the rural industries to the banking institutions has been of the order of $3,000m. At a time when these great industries have the opportunity of getting good prices, plenty of products and rehabilitation we find that a raid has been made on them by this Government. The figures I have indicate that the raid has been of the order of $300m. I refer to some of the increase. There has been a 5c a gallon increase in the price of petrol. We cannot move in our rural areas without an abundance of transport. This increases the costs of goods coming in and going out. There has been a reduction of the depreciation allowance from 20 per cent a year to 15 per cent or 221 per cent. The primary producer has the option of taking either percentage. The initial capital allowance has been discontinued which has meant that with the poor seasons for the last 4 or 5 years producers certainly need assistance of this nature. 
I deal now with the dairy farmers. Milk to the value of $l2m has been taken out of the kids' mouths by this Government. The Government had to make an assessment of whether the health of the children of this nation is more valuable than $10m or $12m. The Government has gone for the money instead of the health of the children. The wine industry has been socked to leg. It is an industry which has stood on its feet ever since it was formed. Supporters of the present Government screamed to high heaven last year when the Liberal-Country Party Government placed a tax of some $10m on the wine industry. The tax was watered down to $5m. Now the wine producer is being socked to the extent of $20m due mainly to the Government's method of valuation of stock. There was an arrangement prior to this present legislation that wine producers could value their stock at 15c a bottle. Now they have to value it at cost or market price in one particular year. Some of the valuable vignerons will be thrown out of business. The amount of $7m has been allocated for the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis. That program has to be paid for. The petroleum products equalisation subsidy was brought in by the previous Government to assist people living in the far Hung parts of Australia. Now this will be eliminated and probably will cost another 2c a gallon for petrol for people living in these areas. 
An amount of $20m has been lost by the equalisation of telephone rentals. Telephone rental is now $55 a year in the country areas of Australia. I asked a question today about pensioners. They have been socked with this new rental in the country areas of $55 a year - a 100 per cent increase. These are all matters with which we are concerned. We appreciate at the present moment that the primary industries in Australia are gaining ground. There are good markets for our meat overseas, good markets for our wheat and good markets for our coarse grain. 
All over the world, not only to your friendly China. They have just popped up again. When we look at our trade figures we find that the latest figures for our exports up to 30 June 1973 run into $6,220,148,000. Of this amount the great primary industries were responsible for $4,597,400,000 representing for the first time 77.4 per cent of the export income of this country. What do we find about the manufacturing and secondary industries. The amount for them is down to $1,205,006,000. Why is it down. It is down because there is a shortage of essential consumer goods in this country brought about by strikes. One cannot buy No. 8 or No. 10 ordinary fencing wire, barbed wire or even steel posts. I am referring to our own consumer market leaving aside our manufactured goods for export. So, unless this position is rectified we are in for problems. 
I have not yet mentioned the allowance for clearing country properties that has been practically discontinued. A lot of land in Australia still has to be cleared. There should be an incentive for primary producers, the men on the land, to clear this country and bring it into production so that our exports can be increased and the economic stability of Australia improved. We have great opportunities but we are being led by a government that has no regard for primary industries. It is a matter of fact that 'primary industry' is a dirty expression in this Parliament and it should not be. 
This afternoon I listened to a speech by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  As far as I could make out he did not speak to any of the matters listed in this debate. He seemed to be talking about the affluence of the retail trade. He knows of this because he is one of the biggest retailers on the posh northern side of Sydney. He was saying that the tariff cut of 25 per cent is a great benefit to the primary producers. We do not believe this. If this 25 per cent tariff cut had taken place some years ago it might have been of more benefit but at present we are subsidising tractors manufactured in this country and they are main items of machinery which are imported. The tariff cut is of very little benefit to the primary producers. One of the things said by the honourable member which concerned me was that the tariff cut would be of benefit to the primary producers. It could throw hundreds of thousands of people out of employment in Australia. The textile industry employs 120,000 people in this country. With the flowon from this tariff cut of cheap Asian textile goods the employment situation will be very seriously affected. The honourable member for Robertson said that the retailing industry and business had never been better but, mark my words, when these cheap Asian goods come into Australia - goods which are produced by cheap labour countries, where labour is employed at 80c an hour - our textile and our manufacturing industries will be affected unless quantitative restrictions are placed on them. 
The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  began his speech this evening with a poem which some honourable members thought was nice but which some of us did not think could be described in that way. The honourable member is a former member of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. It is a pity that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics did not send to this Parliament men with more practical experience in primary industry. Members of the Bureau certainly can quote figures and trends, but the practical application of what they say does not always work out in the way they suggest. If we do not get behind our great primary industries and encourage them, our failure to do will be to the detriment of this country. 
I desire to ask the Treasurer a question. Have deposits to permanent building societies fallen off alarmingly over the past 2 months? In order to secure funds, has it been necessary for these societies to disregard requests from the Reserve Bank of Australia and increase their borrowing rate by 
H per cent, bringing it up to 9 per cent? Will this create increased costs to home seekers and place an added financial burden on home ownership? Has the Treasurer had an examination made of this most serious situation with a view to a satisfactory solution being determined? 
On Monday of this week I attended the opening of a new bulk terminal at Werris Creek in my electorate. This terminal, which cost $2m, will have a storage capacity of 5i million bushels of wheat. At that function I met many members of the Wheat Board and the Grain Elevator Board and also farmers who are very concerned with the problem of weevils in wheat. There is an urgent need for assistance to be given to a grain disinfestation scheme. At the present time the wheat harvest is taking place in New South Wales and in other parts of Australia. We will have a very big crop this year. This crop will be required not only for home consumption purposes but also for stock feed purposes. We will have to cater for the huge export market which Australia has developed. We have established a splendid wheat trade right across the world. We have been responsible for setting a reputable standing with our clients in the supply of quality wheat. 
The wheat coming off at the present time requires protection. With the heavy rains we have been experiencing in the wheat belt the quality of the wheat has deteriorated slightly. It is difficult to understand why this Government has refused assistance to State governments to combat the weevil menace which is most prevalent at the present time. Urgent remedial measures are required and this matter should be given a high priority. I know that the State governments are very concerned about this problem. They are prepared to play their part financially but this Government has not agreed to help them. Experts have informed the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture that the infestation could become acute within 12 months. This Government has refused to assist by making available $lm to protect an industry which brings in to this country some S600m a year from the export market. This is ridiculous when $lm spread amongst the States would save this $600m export industry. 
I understand that one shipment from Australia has already been refused because of weevil infestation. We have Ministers coming back to this country from overseas making great statements about new orders coming in for wheat. In spite of this they apparently will do nothing about the weevil problem. We know that the Government paid over $lm for a painting called 'Blue Poles'. We see the Government spending money in other areas which are of much less value to this nation than is the production and storage of wheat. This action is another attempt by the Government to penalise primary industries and in so doing it is also penalising the economy of Australia because a big wheat crop and big wheat markets mean much to this country. They mean much to our secondary industry. Right across the board they put money into people's pockets and into many industries. Farmers should be shown how to eradicate weevils. Weevils are undoubtedly a pest that can cause millions of dollars worth of damage. When a male weevil and a female weevil get together in a silo there are millions of their progeny within a matter of weeks. They breed very freely. This is one of the problems with weevils. 
I ask the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Cabinet to have another look at this serious omission to grant assistance. An amount of only $lm is needed to do the job. The States are prepared to pay their share from State funds. Surely this is not too much to ask. We believe that the protection of this very important industry is a vital matter. I repeat my suggestion that the Prime Minister and the Cabinet should reconsider this matter and make this money available to the States to enable them to do the job. I know that State Ministers for Agriculture right across Australia are very concerned about this matter. Having spoken with officials within the New South Wales Department of Agriculture on Monday and with the Minister himself I know that they arc very concerned. As a matter of fact in his remarks at the opening of the grain terminal the Minister concentrated much of his speech on this problem. I ask the Government to give full consideration to solving this problem to the benefit of this country. 
I rise to take part in the debate on the Bill to alter the Constitution to enable the Commonwealth to borrow money for and to grant financial assistance to local governing bodies. I have listened with great interest to speakers from both sides of the House in this important debate. As one who has served in local government for more than 30 years I am well aware of the problems that shire councillors and aldermen experience in carrying out the various facets of their undertakings. I should like to say at the outset that I am in favour of financial assistance being made available by the Federal Government to local government authorities, but I should like to see it made without any strings attached. 
There are more than 900 local government bodies in Australia and they are all in financial trouble because rates have reached saturation point and because local government bodies today are expected to carry all kinds of works far outweighing revenue from the rating system. So they must get a share of the general taxation revenue of this country to enable them to carry out the duties which they desire to perform. These include the provision of sporting ovals, libraries, swimming pools, baby health centres, a social service officer and many other facilities which local government is expected to provide. It is impossible for them to carry out these duties with the outmoded method of rating which has been in existence for so long. 
As has been stated on so many occasions, local government has reached saturation point and financial assistance is vital if local government is to succeed and to carry on. Although under the Australian Constitution the financial responsibility for local govern ment is purely a matter for the States - when federation took place this was one aspect of government which was allocated to the various States - I nevertheless feel that the Federal Government has a financial interest in local government and should make the muscle available for it to carry out the works which I have enumerated. In May this year, the Grants Commission Bill was passed and naturally, ever since it was passed, local governing bodies have been making inquiries as to how and when federal finance would be made available. Shire councillors and aldermen throughout Australia have been asking the following questions: Would money be made available to regional councils, to single councils or to shires? Would it be provided by the Federal Government direct or would it go through the State governments? When will any scheme become operative? Any honourable members who are connected with local government and farm their electorates will, I feel sure, be besieged by these councillors and aldermen and asked how the scheme will operate. If federal funds are made available direct to local government, this will be against the policy of the Party that I represent because we support the federal system. We support the principle of finance being made available to the State governments and through them to the local governments in their areas. In other words, we do not want the Federal Government to step in and take over the duties of the States. Hundreds of statements have been made featuring support for local government and many of them have been airy-fairy statements indeed. The statements have been made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and by others on the Government side. 
This proposed referendum to give the Federal Government power to raise money and to make it available to the various local government authorities has not been acclaimed by the various State governments in Australia. It is true that the State governments desire to secure more and adequate financial help, but they want the assistance to come through their own State governments and the money to be made available direct to them by the State governments. Who knows the needs and requirements of local government better than the various State Departments of Local Government? The local government departments know the needs of local government in the States and if the money is channelled through the local government departments it will be put to good use. I would suggest, with all due respect to the Grants Commission, that no one would be better able to understand the requirements and needs of local government authorities than the State local government departments which are dealing with shires and municipal councils every week in carrying out their functions. It would be a tragedy if the State governments were passed by. The adoption of this legislation will be the commencement of the destruction of the Federal system and a big step towards centralisation. I feel that in the main the borrowing of money for local government is not a real problem in relation to shires and municipal councils. 
I have found in my long experience in local government that there has never been any problem about borrowing loan funds. Most of the councils with which I have been associated have been able to manage over many years and to make great progress until the repayment of these funds and interest payments has caught up with them and has had to be recouped by increasing rates, which have reached saturation point. There is no problem about borrowing loan funds for local government. There are times possibly when the big local governing bodies in the cities of Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne and Brisbane may have some problems in this regard, but I am one who is in favour of local government having a say on the Loan Council in regard to local government finance. But this is not the real problem. The real problem lies with local councils which require relief from the rating system under which they have to impose charges in order to carry on local government in various areas. I hope that some definite decisions will be made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development so that local government will know where it is going and where the funds will come from. 
As I said, many statements have been made on this matter by the Minister. I am not doubting his sincerity in this field at all. I know that he has worked extremely hard but I know also that he has made available money to the City of Melbourne and the City of Sydney to assist in the provision of water and sewerage facilities. I hope that this Government will make available finance - this request will please the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  - to the Hunter Water and Sewerage Board so that it will be able to carry out extensions of water and sewerage facilities in the Hunter area and its environs, including the city of Maitland which is within my electorate. If the Minister can make this money available to the City of Sydney and the City of Melbourne for these purposes, he should be able to make money available to the Hunter Water and Sewerage Board in order that it may carry on with this important work. 
So far as I can see the only benefit that so far has been derived under the provisions of the Grants Commission Act in the field of local government is in the money that has gone to the cities. When one reads the statement by the Minister it will be seen that country areas receive very little mention at all. In the main assistance is given for the development of urban and city areas. I remind the Minister for Urban and Regional Development that if we are to centralise, if we are to develop local government right across the board, then country municipalities and shires should receive some consideration from the Grants Commission and also under this local government assistance Bill. I know that in New South Wales regional bodies have been formed, particularly in my own area, and that members of those bodies have come to Canberra to see the Minister. I do hope that some assistance will be forthcoming to them. 
To return to the need for positive action and positive statements, I would like to hear the Minister make some really positive statements as to how this money will be made available to local government. We have heard mention about regional councils and local councils. Local councils can apply direct for assistance. Where' do we go from there? Shire and municipal councils are asking these questions. They want to know whether the money will be made available direct to the regional councils for distribution to the councils in their area or whether local governing bodies will be able to apply direct for assistance. Recently the members of a regional council came to Canberra. I will not mention its name. They came here in all good faith to see the Minister with a view to receiving some financial assistance. After they returned to their district a member of that council and one councillor slipped down to Canberra on their own and tried to undermine the regional council. It will be a tragedy if this sort of thing is allowed to continue. I feel that more positive action and decisions have to be taken by the Minister in the field of local government so that local councils will know where they are going. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Government given consideration to the establishment of the second international airport in New South Wales at Hexham, and does it appear to be an excellent site. 
Is Hexham situated in open country between the City of Newcastle and the City of Maitland, where there would be no noise or pollution problem for any nearby residents. 
Has this site been investigated, and is there any possibility of the second airport being established there. 
I wish to speak on the Estimates of the Department of Immigration which provide this year for an expenditure of $63,079,000. It is interesting to note that the actual expenditure in this Department last year was of the order of $53,029,612. It is interesting also to look at the dissection of the figures in regard to this Department, with particular attention to amounts of money being spent in the various fields and facets of immigration. If we look at the estimate for the Good Neighbour Council - this is a wonderful way of assisting migrants - we find that $745,000 has been allocated and that last year $618,255 was actually spent in this regard. Grants to community agencies involved in integration activities total $370,000 in this year's estimates, compared with $284,015 last year. These are 2 important aspects of the immigration sector and it is pleasing to see increases there. 
For national migration from Europe under agreements and arrangements, passage and associated costs this year total $12,420,000 compared with $3,397,000 expended last year. Special passage assistance programs are important and it is pleasing to note that the passage and associated costs this year will be provided to the extent of $7,050,000 compared with $3,225,339 last year. As previous speakers have mentioned, there have been increases in the adult migrant education and the child migrant education programs. The child migrant education program this year provides for an expenditure of $10,420,000 as against $5,061,184 expended last year. I regard migration as an important matter in this country. I refer to statements made recently by the management of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd which said quite openly and frankly that it desired an intake of skilled migrants to enable it to overcome the lag in the production of its goods. We know that there is a shortage of consumer goods right across the country. No. 8 gauge wire, No. 10 fencing posts, barbed wire and a host of other important products are in short supply because there is a shortage of skilled labour in these industries. Additional work force is needed to increase the quantity of these goods being manufactured. 
I have just received from the statistics section of the Parliamentary Library the latest figures regarding Australia's migrant intake, the number of people leaving Australia and the net gain to Australia. The figures are alarming as I think the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  would agree. The figures relate to the period ending 30 June each year. In 1970, 185,099 settlers arrived; in 1971, 170,011; in 1972, 132,719 and in 1973, 107,401 settlers arrived. The alarming part of the situation is that when we look at the net result - that is, the number of settlers remaining in Australia after taking into consideration those who have left - we find that in 1970 we had a net gain of 136,702; in 1971, a net gain of 119,083; in 1972 a net gain of 75,672 and in 1973 a net gain of 56,562. These figures must give rise to alarm about Australia's immigration program. They indicate that a tremendous number of people are leaving Australia. I take it that a percentage of those who are leaving Australia are skilled members of the work force. So this situation is not good for industry in Australia. 
It is interesting to note that possibly onethird of Australia's total population is linked either directly by birth or less directly .by family or marriage to the history, language, culture and traditions of an overseas country. So overseas migrants, mostly European, have over the years made a great contribution to the development of Australia and have had a considerable influence on our national life. They have brought the culture and customs of their countries to Australia. They have integrated them into our community with advantage to Australia. 
This wonderful country is surely in a most advantageous position to attract migrants. Australia has freedom of religion and freedom of speech and anybody who desires to get on has the opportunity to do so. In the past we have made many mistakes which should not be repeated. As I have said before, we are in a position  to  screen our migrants to see that we get the best type educationally, physically, mentally and skilled. We should also be accepting those migrants who are prepared to preserve our democratic way of life. This is most important. 
Our immigration policy must also, of course, take into account our capacity to pro vide employment. This, too, is most important. At present there are opportunities in the heavy industries and in other industries in Australia for skilled people. We must be able to house migrants. This is another important aspect of a successful immigration policy. There must be good educational facilities and, as has already been mentioned, increased sums are being made available to educate the children of migrants and, indeed, the migrants themselves. Social service provisions also are important. We must avoid different social and economic problems which may follow from an influx of people having different standards of living, traditions and cultures. This Government's policy is for an immigration intake in 1973-74 of 110,000 migrants. I say with all due respect to the Minister and to the Government that this figure is not high enough; it should be more. The Government proposes that the 110,000 settlers will comprise 60,000 assisted migrants and 50,000 unassisted migrants. With a strong demand for labour in Australia there should be a larger intake. There is no doubt that, if we can get more skilled workers to Australia that will assist considerably to arrest the inflationary trends that are occurring in our economy at present. I have mentioned that the net figures which I quoted a little time ago certainly give rise to alarm. 
I am pleased to learn that an extensive program of research is nearing completion and that public hearings will be held in all States. Of course, this program was started by the Liberal-Country Party Government and the present Minister for Immigration is carrying it through to its finalisiation. It should give us some valuable information and assistance with regard to immigration. We should be giving more consideration to the integration of migrants into the Australian community and not allowing them to congregate in settlements as they are prone to do in many part of our country. I think that our immigration policy at this point of time should be stepped up. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry accept as proper the use of official departmental publications for the making of attacks on the Opposition parties? In particular, does he accept as proper the use of the regular publication called 'Meat Notes', which is put out by the Department of Primary Industry, to carry an attack on the Australian Country Party, as it did at considerable length in the issue dated 8 November 1973? 
I would like to bring to the attention of the House tonight a matter of great concern to my colleagues in the Australian Country Party and, I believe, to the Opposition generally. I refer to a publication entitled 'Meat Notes' which is produced by the Department of Primary Industry in Canberra. This publication has traditionally existed as a medium through which the Department circulates information such as livestock auction prices and items directly affecting livestock, meat production and marketing. The article appearing on the back of this issue is written in political terms and has nothing whatever to do with the usual, traditional publication entitled 'Meat Notes' which is put out by the Department. 
It contains factual information. It provides livestock auction prices and the prices of sheep meat at Newmarket, Victoria, of United States meat, of United Kingdom meat and so on. But when we look at this issue of 8 November we find a blatant use of this news sheet for political purposes. I refer to the statement which appears on the back of this issue and which is printed under the name of the Department of Primary Industry, Canberra. It reads: 
In case onyone has forgotten, the export tax was never anything more than a recommendation by the 
Parliamentary Prices Committee and not Government policy. 
This however, did not prevent Country Party leader,  Mr Anthony,  from issuing a press release on 31 August predicting that a tax as high as 12c per lb will be applied initially to exports. He went on to say that when this did not work, the Government would keep on increasing the tax. 
Other members of the Country Party and Liberal Opposition did their best to stir the pot, knowing full well that the imposition of an export tax was not being proposed by the Government. When I put a submission to Cabinet on 8 October opposing th, Committee's export tax recommendation, it was readily accepted. This move was confirmed by a large majority at the Caucus meeting two days later. 
The situation now is that I will report back to Cabinet on 12 November on the supply and price situation within the meat industry. On the basis of my report, it will be decided if there is any need to approach the meat industry about voluntary restraints on exports to ensure an adequate supply of meat for the domestic market I am hopeful that my report to Cabinet will show that the recent trend towards stabilised meat prices will still be evident. 
Over recent weeks, hundreds of telegrams objecting to an export tax on beef arrived at my Canberra office. While this meant additional revenue for the post office, the telegrams had little impact on me. . . . 
I took my stand despite extremely strong pressures on the Government from consumer groups and trade unionists concerned about the sharp rise in retail prices for all types of meat. They not only pointed out that high meat prices were hitting the low income earner, but that other countries had taken action to ensure greater supplies of basic foodstuffs for the domestic market. 
My opposition to an export tax was based primarily on the grounds that the normal flow of meat to the market should not be interfered with and that the best way to stabilise meat prices was to allow the increase in production over recent years to continue. 
The Labor Government has a lot of faith in the market place as the determining force as to what farmers produce. As we have begun to phase out the dairy subsidy which has been encouraging the production of unwanted butterfat, it would have been inconsistent for us to interfere with the unsubsidised meat industry which appears to have excellent prospects in the foreseeable future. 
Another point is that it is valuable for Australia to retain its reputation as a reliable meat supplier to world markets. This will not only give us some market security if overseas demand slackens, but provides a bargaining point in overseas negotiations for the reduction of trade barriers against rural imports. 
We have shown the United States, for example, that we are prepared to provide her with meat at some cost to our own citizens, thereby creating some goodwill. 
This is blatant political propaganda obviously put out by the Government. The source is an article by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  which was published in the Queensland 'Country Life' on 18 October 1973. It is an absolute disgrace that political propaganda should be put out in a news leaflet circulated to the meat industry by the Department of Primary Industry. I have quite a few letters here, one from the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council, which objects to this type of blatant political propaganda being circulated. I have also been approached by many other people in the meat trade, in the beef production industry in particular, to see whether this sort of blatant activity is to  be  allowed to be continued. If it is, God help the Government. This information was put out by the Meat Section of the Department of 'Primary Industry. I should like to know under whose authority this article was placed in the meat industry newsletter. We would like to know that because we feel that the information is highly political and certainly should not have appeared in that journal. I trust that in future government money will not be used to put out political propaganda. 
I should also like to refer to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  who stated in this House recently that he was against a tax being placed on meat exports. He never mentioned that a meat tax should be put on exported beef. An interview on Federal File' on 16 September between the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, who gave the answers, and the interviewer,  Mr Schildberger,  who asked the questions, went as follows: 
Well, on the evidence available, there appear to be only 2 things that can be done. One, to bring in some form of domestic quota, and the second is to bring an export tax down on exported beef. 
Which one do you favour? 
Well, the most workable appears to be an export tax, and this has the most likelihood of succeeding and bringing domestic prices down. 
But there are other problems associated with that, like the farmer. 
Yes, well it is important in order not to discourage production to bring the money that is collected in the tax back to the farmer, and the evidence that has been given to the meat prices committee which is, of course, public information suggests that the demand for beef overseas is so strong that if we raise the price in Australia, that is the export price, people will still buy at the higher price. And under these circumstances, an export tax, if it is returned to the producer, is more likely to increase total income for the producer than in fact decrease it. 
What sort of a tax would you consider 
Well, my personal view on this is that the tax would need to be very high. It would have to be a tax levied on all exported meat, beef in particular, and this would be collected by the Australian Government and returned as a payment to producers who sold cattle in the saleyard. 
What a lot of hooey. 
This was an interview with the honourable member for Eden-Monaro on Federal File' on 16 September. I bring these facts forward for consideration. We are greatly concerned to think that the Department of Primary Industry would be an instrument for the issuing of blatant political propaganda on the back on its news sheet. As I said earlier, this newsletter is produced by the Meat Section of the Department of Primary Industry. We should like to know under whose authority this article was printed. 
I wish to take part in this debate. On looking through the second reading speech of the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  I find that the Bill seeks to impose a levy on honey exports at the rate of a maximum of lc per kilogram - that is approximately lc on every 21b - and at an operative charge. of 0.3c per kilogram. As the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  said, the Australian Honey Board has been financed up to now by a levy on the local sales of honey, which represent about 60 per cent of the honey produced. The other 40 per cent is exported. On looking at the income and expenditure statement of the Australian Honey Board one can readily see the need for financial assistance to this Board. As at 30 June 1972 it had a slight excess of income over expenditure of $16,212. As at 30 June 1973 the excess of expenditure over income amounted to $18,940. So it is quite evident that this Board, which is responsible for the marketing of our honey crop, requires additional finance. I think it is fair that a levy should be placed on the quantity of honey exported in order to provide this additional finance. I also notice that the Minister said in his second reading speech that the trade in general and the honey producers have not raised any great objection to this levy being imposed on honey exports. There have been some objections, but in the main the industry apparently has accepted the proposal. 
Unfortunately the position with regard to honey exports has deteriorated considerably in the past few weeks. In my travels and associations I have met quite a few very large apiarists who are concerned about the trend in the export market. I sound a warning to the Minister and to those in the industry that the market has continued to weaken, so much so that it is difficult to make export sales in traditional markets at the present time. The export market is in a state of reassessment and for the first time in 3 years supply has outstripped demand. What has caused this sudden slow-down? Several important factors have caused it. The United Kingdom has been buying more heavily than it normally does to beat the 10.8 per cent duty which will be effective on all honey imported into the United Kingdom after 1 January 1974, which is not very far away. That duty will rise to 27i per cent by January 1977. So it can be readily seen that a problem exists here in relation to the sale of honey to the United Kingdom market. This should mean that the United Kingdom market will drop out of the buying until the extraordinary stock has been absorbed. It is the opinion of top honey exporters that the United Kingdom market will buy very little honey between now and the end of February. 
That is not the end of the problem. Japan has over bought by some thousands of tonnes and, surprisingly, has a bumper honey crop itself this season. The Japanese financial situation is much tighter and buyers are not prepared to buy stocks as heavily as previously. Let us have a look at another honey producer. The Argentine has held its honey to obtain higher prices for it. It has now found that these prices will not be available. It has a surplus which will probably be marketed for at least 10 per cent less than the present going price. Roumania and Hungary have held back their acacia honey for ridiculously high prices. It is regarded by the world markets as being a delicious honey. It is one which has been much sought after. But they have been asking a very high price for it. Consequently, they have been unable to sell it. The market rejected that price months ago. Obviously there is a build up of this honey which will have to be cleared somewhere along the line. Of course, this will have an effect on our exports. Some 14 days ago a financial credit squeeze was imposed in the United Kingdom and this also will be a deterrent to future honey purchases. The interest rate paid on money borrowed in the United Kingdom at present is as high as 17 per cent. The 3 revaluations of the Australian dollar have also had an effect, as supply has caught up with demand and, of course, this has affected all our primary exports, as the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  who is at the table, would know. Bee keepers in northern New South Wales and Queensland have come out of the winter with good bees and favourable seasonal conditions have assured th:m a very high production of honey. We have had a very mild winter in northern New South Wales and apparently the same situation obtains in Queensland. This has been good for bees and it means that our honey production will be up on previous seasons. We will have a lot of honey to sell on 31 January 1974. 
During the last 2 years it has been easy to sell honey immediately it is produced, particularly on the export market. Now the market situation is such that stocks will have to be held for a while and this will cause problems. Certainly, this situation will have its advantages in that the local market will be well supplied. The local market has been somewhat neglected over the last 3 years by some packers so that they might gain the high export prices which have been offering. I feel sure that the local market will respond to the fact that there will be increased honey available for home consumption. Those engaged in this industry are concerned at the situation and would like to see the position level out and satisfactory prices maintained in the long term. 
Those of us who represent primary producing electorates and who are connected with primary producers know that a good even price for primary products right along the line is better than a boom and bust situation. So we hope that the supply and demand situation will even itself out and will not cause any undue hardship in the industry, which has just got on its feet and which has been a very valuable export earner for Australia. 
The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  referred to the removal of export incentives and, of course, this gives honey exporters cause for great concern, particularly those producers who export in packages. The&gt; have been very upset to think that the export incentives have been removed. This does not affect the honey exported in bulk but rather the export packers. So, we support the Bill but would like to draw the attention of the Minister to these problems which confront the industry today and will test to the utmost our marketers in the present world market situation. 
I have an amendment which relates to clause 3 of the Bill, which states: 
Section 131a of the Customs Act 1901-1971 is amended - 
by inserting after the word " or " (last occurring) the words ", subject to sub-section (2),"; and ring) the words ", subject to sub-section (2) , "; and 
by adding at the end thereof the following subsection: - "(2) Sub-section (1) does not exclude fish or other goods the produce of the sea from the control of the Customs where the importation into Australia of the fish or other goods, as the case may be, is prohibited, either absolutely or otherwise, by the regulations.". 
I move: 
Clause 3, page 2, paragraph (b), omit proposed sub-section (2), substitute the following sub-section: 
Sub-section (1) does not exclude fish or other goods the produce of the sea specified in the Convention on International Trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora from the control of Customs where the importation into Australia of the fish or other good's, as the case may be, is prohibited, either absolutely or otherwise, by the regulations. The regulations shall specify those species of wild fauna and flora which are applicable to the provisions of the Convention on International Trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora'. 
The amendment is self-explanatory. I hope that the Government will accept it. The matter was mentioned in the second reading stage. 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy whether Australia has considerable natural areas available for the production of solar energy. Have top engineers and physicists voiced strong and considered opinions that solar energy could be the main source of power in Australia within the next decade? Will the Minister inform the House of the Government's policy on the production of solar energy and whether it is being given a high priority? 
I rise to take part in the debate on this short Bill. At present under the Customs Act fish and other produce of the sea landed by Australian registered fishing boats operating out of Australian ports are exempt from Customs control. The stated purpose of this Bill is to provide an exemption from this position so that endangered species as agreed upon by the Convention on International Trade may be subject to restriction under the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations. In specific terms this would mean that a vessel registered in Australia and operating out of Australian ports would not be permitted to bring into Australia certain endangered species such as types of fish and whales. 
I entirely agree with the sentiments expressed in the Bill, but at the Committee stage I propose to move an amendment to tighten up the wording of the Bill. I will propose that the regulations may prohibit the importation into Australia from the vessels in question only the species of wild flora and fauna specified in the Convention. I am concerned at the broad discretions contained not only in this Bill but also in the principal Act. The regulations referred to in this Bill are those covered by section 50 of the Principal Act. 
Under this section the Governor-General may, by regulation, prohibit the importation of goods into Australia. This power may be exercised by prohibiting imports absolutely, or from a specified place, or prohibiting their importation unless specified conditions or restrictions are complied with. A similar section applies in respect of exports and contains similar discretionary powers. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I mention in passing that I believe that these broad powers of regulation making should be severely curtailed. It is my belief that the Act should be amended so that the Governor-General, in making regulations, may disallow an import or export licence only on the basis of a set of specified criteria and conditions. I also believe that the Minister concerned should have to table the reasons for the disallowance of the licence within 15 sitting days of the disallowance. 
Under this Bill as it stands, the regulations to which I refer may be used to prohibit either absolutely or otherwise the importation into Australia of fish or other goods which are the produce of the sea. I realise that the second reading speech states that it is the intention that the regulations shall be administered so that they will apply to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. However, if this is the intention, then this regulation power should be confined to that specific purpose, that is, to the prohibition of importation of endangered species. 
I also believe that the regulations should specify those species in question so that there is a clear understanding in the industry of the intentions of the Bill regarding this matter. The species in question involve some types of whales and turtles, as well as other marine species. I believe that some clarification is necessary in respect of the whaling industry in Western Australia. Possibly this is one of the main items which should be very clearly specified under this legislation. Is this industry now not to be permitted to slaughter and process certain types of whales? I would like some comment from the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  on this aspect. As I have said, the broad intent of the Bill is to be commended, and the amendment that I shall move at the Committee stage is not intended to destroy or divert the intention of the Bill, but rather to confine it to the reasons for which it was introduced. 
Tonight I want to speak about the change which has taken place in the export market of Australian meat, particularly in the last few weeks. The importance of the meat industry to Australia cannot be over-emphasised. Despite a huge drop in sheep and lamb production, Australia's total meat production, including pig meat, reached a record 2.3 million tons for the year ended June 1973, with a gross value at the works estimated to exceed $ 1,500m. Exports have yielded nearly $ 1,000m at the ship's side. 
The total value of this industry at 30 June was $2,000m. Our export market at the moment is in jeopardy. Three revaluations have taken place, export incentives have been taken away and an export tax has recently been imposed by the Government on the export of beef overseas. These have all contributed to the price of our beef on world markets being too high. We are having problems in off-loading our meat, and this is very much the case in the American market. Buoyant conditions have prevailed in the export market to the United States of America, Japan and Canada. 
As I have said, conditions have changed. The almost total lack of overseas interest for all kinds of meat is having a significant influence on our processing operations. Our great country meatworks and our seaboard meatworks right throughout Australia are experiencing a slow down in the operation of their export meats and this will have an effect right across Australia because the meat industry is one of the most decentralised industries that we have in this country. It employs thousands of people. It is in jeopardy because the present Government has declared war on the meat industry. I have mentioned the revaluations, the export incentives and the recent tax. I am pleased to see the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  in the chamber. He knows only too well that the Charles David Pty Ltd works at Gosford in his electorate are experiencing problems at the present time. I believe the management of the works was here today. Possibly it will have to put people off. We are going to have unemployment in this industry. Unfortunately, there are no indications of any relief in sight at this point of time. 

 Major overseas outlets, particularly the United States of America, are experiencing an over-supply of beef at prices below Australian prices, and are reported to be exporting large quantities of chilled beef to Japan. This export of American chilled beef to the Japanese market is causing a double blow to Australian exports. The position is further aggravated by the export meat tax introduced on 26 November, currency problems related to the devaluation of the yen relative to the United States dollar and the relativity of both currencies to the Australian dollar. Reduced operations in both kill and processing reflect upon by-products. It is in this area that abattoir profitability will be most severely felt. 
All these works that operate in Australia rely for their profitability on prices and the quality of meat meal which they manufacture at the works. The reduction in this export trade will have a serious effect on the quantity of meat meal produced and therefore on the profitability of the abattoirs themselves. Tallow production is down and, as I have mentioned, meat meal production has dropped back. This is a serious situation. It has developed only in the past few weeks. The outlook is extremely black. 
The 'Meat Producer and Exporter', which is a journal published by those in the meat trade - I can claim to be in that trade because I am the  chairman  of one of the largest country works - had this to say: 
Although the export meat tonnage of Australia to the US has risen over the past 5 years by 78,000 tons to 319,000 tons, the proportion of the US share of Australian meat exports has fallen from 60 per cent to 39 per cent over the same period. 
The Board's North American Representative,  Mr Graeme  Goodsir, made this statement in an address to the annual meeting of the Meat Importers Council of America in Chicago. 
The meeting was held in conjunction with the American Meat Institute convention. 
Future supplies of Australian meat for the US will be largely a question of buying competition from other countries. Our meat exports, being demandorientated, will get pulled through the pipeline, not pushed,' he said. 
So we have serious problems with our export meat trade. I warn the Government that it should not try to tax this wonderful industry that has been built up over many years by cattle producers, by expertise and by those engaged in the export of meat in this country. 
I notice that the Government is setting up a committee to investigate the difference in price between meat at the saleyard and the meat that goes through the butchers' shops in our towns and metropolitan cities. I do not think the Government should worry very much about that. It might take care of itself when the price of beef is reduced considerably in the near future in this country. Supply and demand will take care of the situation entirely. So I do not think that the Government needs to worry about this. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labour. Why is it necessary to approach 30 Filipinos to fill jobs at the motor assembly plant of Leyland Motor Corporation Australia Ltd? Cannot 30 unemployed Australians be located to fill the vacancies at the Leyland plant? Has the Department of Labour in operation a training scheme that could train and fit Australians for this work? Can the Minister inform the House whether in these circumstances Australians can be employed? 
I rise to speak on a Bill for an Act to appropriate a sum out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund additional to the sum appropriated by the 
Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1973-74 for the service of the year ended 30 June 1974. Listening to the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  speaking in this House a few minutes ago, one would get the impression that the present Government has been responsible for all the rain that has fallen to give primary producers a good season and for our primary products receiving excellent prices both on the export market and on our domestic market. That is absolute rubbish. It is only natural that the primary production situation will be better when good rains fall, but that has nothing to do with the actions of the Government. 
The Minister for Secondary Industry mentioned that the production of secondary industry is down. Of course it is down. Why is it down? It is because we have had an unprecedented number of strikes in this country. One has only to pick up a newspaper on any day of the week to find that one industry or another is out on strike. That has resulted in Australia having the greatest shortage of consumer goods ever. If there is a shortage of consumer goods on the domestic market there is a corresponding shortage of the goods produced by secondary industries for overseas. An examination of Australia's export figures as at 30 June last will reveal that but for our primary industries we would be in a very sorry plight indeed as far as our foreign exchange balances are concerned. Our exports of motor cars are down. Our exports of earth moving equipment are down. Our exports of fencing wire and barbed wire and of many other goods manufactured in this country for export are down. They are down because of the failure of the Government to get some production out of the trade unions and to get some production out of industry. 
It was very interesting to read about and see photographs in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of approximately three or four weeks ago of 3 Russian trade union delegates to this country. They were amazed to learn that the trade union movement in Australia does not go for increased production. They said that the trade union movement in Russia went for the full production of all types of consumer and other goods. They were amazed to learn that the trade union movement in Australia is dead against the production of goods that are so important to our way of life and to our overseas trade. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  adjoins me in the electoral sphere in 
New South Wales. During his speech in this chamber tonight he was able to mix up grant money and loan money. He talked about how good it was that the Government was allowing local government to have a voice in the Australian Loan Council on the provision of loan funds to local government and said that the Hunter District Water Board had received Si. 5m. I do not think it received that amount as grant money, as the honourable member for Shortland said; I think it was loan money. Local government is not short of loan money. It has plenty of loan money. It is grant money that local government wants. 
That is right. The local government authorities go in for all sorts of projects. They have to pay back the money they borrow for those projects as well as the interest. If more money is available for loan and if they are not prudent they could have problems. The local government legislation which has been introduced in this House by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is at this stage still airy-fairy. When are we going to see some of the grant money being channelled by the Australian Government to local government bodies? I have had 30 years experience in local government. I have been one of those who have advocated assistance by the Australian Government to local government, but through the State departments of local government, which have the best knowledge of how these funds should be distributed. Because the legislation which has been introduced by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is airy-fairy nobody seems to know who is going to get what or when. As I have travelled through my electorate and in other parts of New South Wales and interstate local government people have asked me when they are going to get some grants from the Australian Government, as promised in the legislation which has been introduced. Regional committees have been set up in various parts of Australia for the allocation of this money when it becomes available. There was no mention of it in the last Budget. I doubt whether we will see any reference to it in the next Budget. As I said before, it is not loan money that local government wants but grant money. Millions of dollars flow from the local government areas in Australia into the Treasury but they do not flow back to the local government areas in a corresponding manner. 
The Government has plundered the great primary industries of this country. We have heard supporters of the Government say that the primary producers of this country have never had it so good. Those people have conveniently forgotten that primary production is a risk industry and that if primary industry does not get good rain and does not experience good conditions it cannot produce crops or fatten stock. As we assembled in this House tonight the primary producers of this country were indebted to financial institutions to the tune of $3,000m. What do we find when the primary producers have an opportunity to clear some of their indebtedness to financial institutions and to get back on an even footing? We find that the Government wants to sock them at every opportunity. There is no need for me to tell any member on this side of the House just what the Government has done to the primary producers. As at 30 June - only 3 months away - we will find that the primary producers in Australia have been socked to the extent of approximately $3 00m. 
That is right. The superphosphate bounty of $60m is going to be wiped. The sum of $240m should cover the loss of all other items. That brings it to S3 00m. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that this is a good time to do away with the superphosphate bounty. He has forgotten that there are millions of acres in this country that would not be worth a crumpet as far as the production of cattle, lambs and crops is concerned if they were not fed with superphosphate. If the tops of the Great Dividing Range in my electorate are not spread with superphosphate there is a great loss of production. I think it is a near-sighted policy on the part of the Prime Minister not to look al the matter in this light. 
A lot has been said in this debate about tariffs. As far as I can ascertain the tariffs have not been of benefit to the primary producers. It is thought in many circles that tariffs benefit tractor manufacturers, but tractors come into this country tariff free. There is a bounty on tractors that are manufactured in Australia. An interesting little document was put on my desk the other day concerning the agricultural tractors bounty legislation which the Liberal-Country Party brought into being and which the present Government - I must give it credit for this - has continued. We can manufacture tractors in Australia and employ our work force on their production. But what do we find when we look at the tractor bounty? We find that Chamberlain John Deere Pty Ltd of Welshpool in Western Australia received as at 30 June last year a bounty of $1,641,741 - that is a fair amount - for 2,552 tractors and that the International Harvester Co., which is the other company that manufactures tractors in this country, was paid a bounty of $255,403 for 772 tractors. The total bounty paid by the Government is $1,897,145. That offests any tariff that might have been available. 
The tariff has not benefited primary industries one iota but what will it. do to our secondary industries, particularly our textile mills? I have at Maitland in my electorate the big Bradmill Industries Ltd textile mill employing 1,350 men and women. They are very worried indeed at the 25 per cent tariff cut and the recent lifting of quotas to allow cheap textile consumer goods to come in here from China and other eastern countries where the labour cost is about 75c to 80c an hour. This will have a serious effect on our textile industries - not now, because it will take eight or ten months to flow through and affect the employment situation in these textile mills. Courtaulds (Australia) Ltd at Raymond Terrace in the electorate of Lyne, Bonds Industries Ltd at Cessnock and another Bradmill Industries Ltd mill at Kotara in New South Wales are some of the great number of textile mills all around this area. Together with mills throughout Australia they employ 120,000 men and women. This is our finest decentralised industry. The Minister for Overseas Trade said here tonight that the Government was geared up to take care of any unemployment that might occur in this industry. I hope it is ready, because in eight or ten months time we are certainly going to see some people unemployed. 
Now let me talk about the meat industry. This is another industry with which I have been associated for a long time. I am  chairman  of one of the biggest abattoirs in New South Wales at the moment and I know just what is happening in this industry. We have priced ourselves right out of the American beef market. This has occurred because we have had 3 revaluations of the Australian dollar and we put lc per pound on export beef going overseas. The Opposition told the Government that this would happen, and it has jolly well happened now. We woke up and found that Australia had lost its American export beef market. In the last 3 months $90m has been lost to this country because of this action. I think that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  might have the answer to getting back into this market - by floating the Australian dollar. That might allow us to regain some of this very valuable export trade which we have lost in this industry. It is important not only to the producers but also to thousands of meat workers throughout the country who have lost their jobs. Industry spokesmen - these are not my words - estimate 25 per cent unemployed in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, and I understand that in Queensland it could be as high as 40 per cent. I know that the prices on our domestic market are high but these will come down when the current stocks are used and when we cannot fill our export markets overseas. 
Let me refer to our postal services. We have gone back 75 years in our postal services. Today a person who lives in a country town in New South Wales or Queensland is lucky if he receives a letter within five or six days of its being posted. This is an absolutely ridiculous state of affairs. I have every regard for our Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I think he is doing his best and I think that he has tried hard, but the socialist controlled postal unions have gained control of the postal services in this country. 
And the Government. There are no postal services on Saturdays. In my electorate and in the honourable member's electorate of Angas exactly the same thing happens. Country people do not receive a mail delivery from Friday lunch time until Tuesday the following week. This is absolutely ridiculous. Surely something can be done about it. Previous speakers have dealt with inflation. I intend to touch on it only briefly. When the Liberal and Country Parties were in government in this country inflation was running at the rate of 3 per cent. It is now running at the rate of 14 per cent, and no effort has been made by the Government to control this rate, which must cause every sane, thinking Australian great concern. I have mentioned that the trade unions are communist controlled. They are stopping production. The Government is not cutting down on Government spending. It is increasing it, thereby adding to the inflationary pressures which are very evident in Australia at the present time. 
Yes, it is going up while we are talking. Nothing has been done by the present Government to set up an Australian pollution control and investigation station. In 1971 when I was in London as a member of a parliamentary delegation I attended the London pollution control station about 25 miles outside London. We saw the results achieved by investigation and pollution control. They were absolutely amazing. New methods have been devised for breaking up oil slick. We have a lot of problems with oil slick on our coasts here. In London they have overcome the sewage problem. When we fly here from Sydney or Melbourne we see our lovely Bondi Beach, Maroubra beach and our beaches in the southern States polluted with raw sewage which is running out into the sea. This should never be allowed to happen. Every effort should be made to control it. Industrial wastes, smoke and exhaust fumes are all items of pollution. Every effort should be made to control them. In London we saw little boys on London Bridge catching fish right up near the city of London. This was unheard of until the pollution had been controlled. 
I refer now to water conservation. Australia is the driest country in the world. The present Federal Government has no policy in regard to the provision of water dams in this country. Indeed, it repudiated an agreement made with the Queensland and New South Wales Governments for the establishment of the Pike Creek Dam. Now the Queensland Government is faced with the job of building that dam with its own limited resources. Naturally, without any Federal money coming through for this water conservation project Pike Creek Dam will take longer to build. It will be a much longer process. But if the Queensland Government does not go on with it, all the valuable preliminary work which had been done, running into millions of dollars, would be completely wasted. 
Recently it was my pleasure again to go overseas with an Australian parliamentary delegation. We went to Burma, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka. After members of our delegation had interrogated the ministers of those countries, we were quite satisfied that 
Australia's foreign aid was being distributed in the right manner. We checked up in Bangladesh where we send a lot of wheat and flour. There had been rumours that our products were not reaching the right quarters, but we were able to make investigations there, to talk with the ministers and to see how the commodities were being distributed. We were quite satisfied that they were going out in the best manner possible. By the way, we have sold to Bangladesh some 300,000 tons of wheat, on 18-month terms and we hope that they will pay for it at the end of that period. 

 Mr MORRIS (Shortland) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr O'KEEFE (Paterson) -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. My electorate is very close to the electorate of Shortland. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  has taken a very fine point. I do not think he need worry about it because I am not likely to go into his electorate at any time. 
Tonight I wish to raise a matter concerning pre-school kindergartens in New South Wales and the problems which they are experiencing. I am very pleased that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  is in the chamber. I have several pre-school kindergartens in my electorate. Because of increasing costs they are experiencing considerable difficulty in carrying on. I refer particularly to the kindergartens at Muswellbrook and Singleton. Kindergartens will have to be closed shortly, and the properties sold. This is the opinion of the Kindergarten Union of New South Wales (Incorporated). The Kindergarten Union of New South Wales is laying the blame at the door of the Federal Government for not fulfilling its promise of assistance for pre-school education. The Kindergarten Union is a non-profit making organisation which conducts 70 kindergartens in Sydney and Newcastle. It is faced with bankruptcy because of spiralling costs which now exceed income by more than $15,000 per month. The teachers' salaries, for instance, have risen by more than 250 per cent since 1970 and a further increase of 13 per cent is due next month. 
Unless immediate financial assistance is received one can imagine that there will be great problems. The kindergarten union will have to close some kindergartens and possibly sell them to keep the organisation from total failure. This would leave hundreds of children with no kindergartens and would lead to retrenchment of teachers and other staff. This is the position in country centres in New South Wales. They face the same problem. I think that we all attach great importance to pre-school kindergartens because these institutions condition the children for primary school life in the immediate future. 
It is an appalling situation that despite promises by the Government not a cent has been received by the New South Wales preschool kindergarten movement, either for maintenance of existing centres or for new kindergartens. It is obvious that differences exist between the Minister for Education and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  and also differences between the Federal Government and the New South Wales Government on how federal funds should be spent. I have every regard for the Minister for Education in this House and no doubt we will hear from him shortly with regard to this statement. 
There was agreement on the relative benefits of full day care and pre-school education. Lack of both pre-school kindergartens and child care facilities in New South Wales is very serious and both areas require substantial help immediately. The disturbing feature of delay is that it has caused former sources of assistance in New South Wales to dry up, and that is assistance which was being given to kindergartens by the State Government and also by local government. The State Government has refused to increase its grants and it passes the buck back here on to the Federal Government. Kindergartens are in a dilemma and I appeal to our Federal Minister for Education to see what can be done to overcome this impasse. As I have mentioned, it appears to have bogged down in State and Federal relations, and I would be very interested to hear the Minister's reply. 
I rise to support the Australian Tourist Commission Bill, which of course is a Bill to widen the powers of the Australian Tourist Commission to enable it to promote domestic tourism in Australia. Section 15 of the Principal Act is to be repealed. This section at present reads: 
The Commission is established for the purpose of the encouragement of visits to Australia, and travel in Australia by people from other countries. 
Under the proposed amendment in the Bill, which the Australian Country Party supports, section 15 will read: 
The Commission is established for the purpose of the encouragement 
of visits to Australia, by people from other countries, and 
of travel in Australia, including travel by people from other countries. 
Similarly, the Bill provides that section 16, paragraph (b) of sub-section (2) be amended to read:  to induce and assist travel agents, transport operators and other appropriate bodies or persons to encourage people in other countries to visit Australia and to encourage travel in Australia including travel by people from other countries. 
No doubt the Australian people must be very concerned to learn that for the year ended 31 December last approximately 319,000 short term visitors came to Australia, and the short term departures for overseas amounted to approximately 460,000. This of course, poses a problem in respect to loss of exchange. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  has already stated that the receipts from overseas visitors for this period amounted to $139m, while spending by Australians overseas amounted to $359m - a gap of $220m and an increase of 25 per cent over the previous year. This certainly gives us concern, because in the interests of Australia we must make every effort to take up this leeway and to see that the imbalance is rectified. We must be doing all we can to correct this imbalance. It is not a simple problem to solve because costs involved for tourists coming from overseas to this country are a lot higher than those for Australian tourists going to Europe and South East Asia on cheap air fares. This of course, has resulted in a downturn in the number of tourists coming to Australia. One realises that the Australian Tourist Commission has done a very good job in promoting Australia overseas, but we must see that the number of overseas visitors to Australia is increased. Although the Commission with limited resources has done a good job, nevertheless it is felt that it must increase its efforts to overcome the leeway between the number of visitors to Australia and the number of Australians travelling overseas. This poses the question whether we are doing enough to publicise this country overseas. I doubt this very much because on overseas visits recently - certainly I was in countries which were poor and whose departing tourists would find difficulty in financing tours to Australia - I did not see any advertisements promoting Australia in a tourist way. I feel that the same situation exists in European countries and possibly in the United States and Great Britain. In the last Budget a sum of only $4,758,000 was allocated by the Government to the Department of Tourism and Recreation. 
The year before it was $3,836,444. This is not sufficient capital to develop a big tourist industry. The $139m we receive from tourists coming to this country is a nice income but if we are to increase our tourist intake, we must spend more money in promoting this country. When one goes to an overseas country like Yugoslavia and looks at its tourist industry, which has no better attractions than those in Australia but which of course has a bigger European population to draw on, one finds that its income from tourism is of the order of $300m. 1 note that the Minister is unhappy with tourist promotion. He is doing a good job with a limited amount of funds from the Treasury. He said recently that he was not satisfied with the Government's performance in promoting Australia. He said: 
Our promotion overseas has not been as good as it could be. 
He said there was no doubt the last Budget did nothing to help the Australian Tourist Commission. He went on to say that he would be arguing in Federal Cabinet for significant increases in spending on tourist development in the 1974 Budget. I hope that members on the Government side will see that this Minister, who is endeavouring to do a job with limited facilities, is given more and adequate finance to increase our tourist promotion, to the advantage of this country, so as to attract more overseas visitors. I feel that the Act in its present form certainly could be enlarged in certain respects. The Minister in his second reading speech said that the Commission will be asked to undertake 'umbrella* nationwide promotions in co-operation with the States and the travel industry aimed at complementing and supporting existing promotional and policy activities. Can the Minister explain this and how he proposes to ensure that the Australian Tourist Commission does not simply make a superfluous promotional effort in a field already well covered by the State tourist bureaus and industries? Indeed, in the legislation there is no mention of assistance to the States in this field. Also, when we look at the State tourist activities, we find that local government bodies too have played a very important part in the promotion of tourism in their respective areas, particularly as members of regional tourist Associations. 
I would also like to know whether the intention of the Bill is to downgrade the voice of the industry in the Australian Tourist Commission. Under the existing legislation 2 of the 5 voting members of the Commission are representatives of the industry. As a result of the implementation of the legislation that we are debating tonight the industry will be represented by only 2 of the 9 members of the Commission. That means that it will run the risk of having its voice completely drowned out. I feel that this is quite an important factor 'because the tourist industry members of the Commission are people who are acquainted with the industry and its requirements. It will be a great pity if the voice of experience of the industry representatives is drowned out by the voices of the other members of the Commission. The industry will want to know who the 2 new members of the Commission will be and what interests they will represent. 
I was interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and his praise of the great part that private enterprise has played in the past and is still playing in the tourist industry. As the honourable member for Mcpherson comes from the Gold Coast, which is an area steeped in tourism and in the attraction of people, I feel that his remarks would be very much to the point. I quite agree with him that Australia must provide more up to date and better accommodation facilities for overseas visitors. We must have better hotels and motels and super accommodation to attract overseas visitors. Australia is a wonderful country with unlimited tourist potential. I quite agree with the remarks of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  about the wonderful beaches that there are not only in his electorate but also in the electorate of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  and on the Sunshine Coast of Queensland. In fact there are wonderful beaches right around our coastline. Australia has wonderful scenery. AH we have to do is promote it. We have to provide more and better accommodation facilities. 
The Minister for Tourism and Recreation has made numerous Press statements to the effect that the tourist industry is clamouring for assistance. I have in front of me an article on the subject. It reads: 
Australia's tourist industry is lobbying hard for Federal Government assistance and the granting of taxation rebates in the coming Budget, as it braces for a period of restricted investment, burgeoning cost pressures and negative growth in overseas arrivals. 
The clamour for tangible Federal support is mounting against a backdrop of fierce South Pacific competition, unfavourable changes in currency parities, rising domestic and international travelling costs and gloomy forecasts by the Australian Tourist Commission. 
That and other articles along those lines indicate very clearly that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation is on the ball and that he is doing everything possible to make tourism tick in Australia. But we have to see that he is given the muscle to do so. We have to see that he is given the opportunity of doing the job that he wants to do. In my association with the tourist industry in the North West Regional Tourist Association I have always been one for the influencing of more American visitors to come to Australia. It is pleasing to note that 20 charter flights of tourists from the United States of America will be coming to this country in the near future. They will bring something like 4,300 tourists. In fact, some of them are here now. Others are yet to come. That is pleasing because visitors from the United States are good money spinners and we want more tourists to come to Australia from that source. 
I pay tribute to the regional tourist associations in the various States, which, with limited financial assistance from their respective State governments and from local government, have promoted tourism extremely well. There are 2 of them in my electorate of Paterson. There is the Hunter Valley Regional Tourist Association, which has its headquarters at Newcastle, and the North West Regional Tourist Association, which has its headquarters at Gunnedah. Both associations have done a wonderful job. They have many wonderful attractions. They have the Hunter Valley wineries, the Glenbawn Dam and the other dams in the area, the lovely beaches 18 miles away at Newcastle, the Burning Mountain at Wingen and the Great Dividing Range to mention but a few. 
The honourable member for Gwydir always gets that one in. The Warrumbungle Mountains are in his electorate of Gwydir. They also come under the North West Regional Tourist Association. All of those wonderful Australian projects and objects are very interesting to tourists, but the difficulty is in getting them out into the country to show them those projects and objects. Far too many of the ships that come into Sydney and other Australian ports carry tourists who never go out into country areas. I know of a large ship that arrived in Sydney some months ago loaded with American tourists who never even got off the ship but who stayed on it playing cards. We should have had those people out into our country areas showing them the terrain and the wonderful facilities and tourist objects that we have in this country. 
I have mentioned that this Bill is a good Bill and that the Opposition supports it. But it is lacking in certain respects. I have mentioned some of them. It does not go far enough. There is no mention of assistance being given to the regional organisations in the States. The local people who have the expertise and enthusiasm are very important to tourist promotion. They have made tourism in their own areas a success by their own financial efforts plus the little bit of support they receive from local government authorities. If by some means we could get the airline operators in Australia to assist us by asking for cheaper aid fares for overseas tourists or for tourism in Australia we would also be. helping this great industry. Instead of being an industry that earns$1 39m from overseas tourists it should be an industry that is earning in the $200m to $300m bracket. The Treasury, Cabinet, Government and Minister for Tourism and Recreation have to ensure that more muscle is given to tourism so that it can really get off the ground in a big way. 
I do not know just what the Australian Tourist Commission has done to promote Australia in the United States market but friends who have come back from the United States have told me that one sees and reads very little in that country about the wonderful facilities, scenery and everything else that we have in this country. As a visitor to Great Britain I saw very little about Australia on my tour. The Australian Tourist Commission has done a good job in promoting Australia overseas and will do a good job in the local field but, despite its efforts, I think there is still room for us to promote Australia to our advantage in overseas countries and to bolster tourism for the benefit of the economy of this country. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Is he aware of the growing number of unemployed in the country areas  of New South Wales? Have abattoirs and meat processing plants been seriously affected by a loss of overseas markets and laid off thousands of employees? Have textile and clothing manufacturers been seriously affected by the import of goods from cheap labour countries and put off staff as a result? What immediate steps are being taken by the Government to assist these employees affected by Government policy? 
I want to raise a matter which is not controversial and which I feel will have the support of all honourable members in this House. It concerns the assistance that is given to cancer research in this country. This dreadful disease is claiming the lives of thousands of Australians every year yet the funds made available by not only this Government and previous governments but also by State governments for research into this disease are inadequate. Figures have been supplied to me by the Statistical Service of the Parliamentary Library concerning deaths caused by cancer in Australia from 1968 to 1972. They are alarming figures. Although advances have been made into certain sections of cancer research the figures indicate that the disease is not being arrested and that deaths from cancer are still on the increase. In 1968 this dreaded disease cost the lives of 17,292 Australians; in 1969 it was responsible for the deaths of 17,549; in 1970 of 18,315; in 1971 of 18,527 and in 1972, the latest year for which figures are available, 18,976 lives were lost. It was responsible for 16 per cent of all deaths in Australia. Although 25 per cent of the population contracts the disease at some time more than one-third of the patients are cured. Of the remaining two-thirds a large proportion can live a comfortable life for many years. In America and in Australia cancer has been shown to be the disease much more feared than any other disease. 
Each Australian State has an official cancer organisation. Most of these organisations were set up by special Acts of Parliament many years ago. For example the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria was established in 1936. Despite this fact, with the exception of New South Wales, funds have always been derived from voluntary service. What wonderful work these voluntary service institutions have done to assist in the eradication of this disease. During the 1950s interest in activity developed in public health education programs, in certain areas of cancer registration and in cancer research. Current expenditure in Victoria is now $250,000 a year, in New South Wales $125,000 and in Queensland $104,000. Each State has a public and professional education program, a research program and several States have a patient welfare program. 
The State cancer organisations subscribe to a national federation - the Australian Cancer Society - which has limited funds for the purpose of co-ordinating the State activities and endowing certain national research programs. National cancer control has been seriously inhibited by lack of funds for basic research, for the application of research knowledge to the practical management of cancer, for public education and for patient welfare. The accent is on additional funds for cancer research. We spend millions of dollars in Australia on other projects which I feel are not nearly as important as this, yet when we examine the figures for cancer research they are a mere pittance when compared with expenditure on other projects. 
Cancer organisations have had to concentrate on research and development activities of a limited nature and on forming nationally important policies - for example on the question of cigarette smoking - and they have not been able to adequately fund a number of areas which are of critical importance in the control of cancer. These include the training of young workers, environmental cancer, skin cancer in Australia, viruses and cancer, appli-cation of present knowledge to cancer man agement, professional education, social problems of cancer and health screening. We must make more adequate funds available for cancer research: It should be millions of dollars and not thousands of dollars. Figures indicate that in 1972-73 the Commonwealth Government made a grant of $100,000 for cancer research. I do not castigate this Government because governments before it also did not make adequate funds available. However I appeal to the present Government to make adequate funds available for cancer research in Australia in the hope that this dreaded disease may eventually be controlled. It is only by pouring funds in and getting good solid research going that advances will be made towards its eradication. Over the years members of this chamber have lost valuable friends from this dreaded disease about which we are all concerned. I appeal to the Government to make funds of a substantial nature available to help in this field. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Did the Australian Labor Party promise prior to its assumption of office on 2 December 1972 that there would be better industrial relations if it were to assume office? Is it a fact that a dispute between the NSW Grain Elevators Board and certain unions over a wage demand has already cost the wheat and coarse grain growers of NSW $20m in deferred exports and over $lm in demurrage? Is that indicative of the Government's inability to improve industrial relations? What action does the Government intend to take to achieve an immediate settlement of that dispute in order to avoid a possible loss of grain sales contracts overseas and export earnings at a time when our balance of trade is deeply in the red? 
I want to talk about an incident which happened here in Canberra recently on the occasion of a visit by some school children. I made arrangements for the fifth and six grade school children from St Joseph's School, East Maitland, to visit the Federal Capital. On 3 September, while they were here, they went to Red Hill and there they purchased at a store a number of articles entitled 'The Merry Monk with Fun Raising Action'. The instructions on the box containing the article that these children purchased were as follows: 
Place figure on flat surface, press head down with finger and watch the action. 
By following these instructions a reproduction of a penis was projected from the monk's habit. One of these articles was on display in this position. Despite the fact that on the box containing the article it was stated quite clearly 'this article is not- ( 1 ) to be sold to a person under the age of 18 years; (2) to be demonstrated in public; (3) to be sold through the post as a mail order item or to a person who has not first had an opportunity to inspect it fully,' two of these were sold by women members of the staff at the store- one to an 1 1-year old boy and another to a 12-year old boy. 
While leaving the kiosk, Father Gahan, who was in charge of the boys, noticed them with the articles. Having observed these articles on display and consequently knowing their immoral nature, he confiscated them and returned to the kiosk, accompanied by the boys, so that they could identify the persons who were responsible for the sale. He spoke to the woman in charge, who was also one of the persons identified by the boys, about the sale of these articles to minors. She admitted selling them and offered the excuse that she told the boss that he should not have purchased them in the first place. She offered to refund the money, $1.99; but Father Grahan refused at that stage because, feeling as strongly as he did about the spread of pornographic material, especially the easy accessibility that minors have to this material, he considered that the matter needed to be taken further. Therefore, he requested the name and telephone number of the owner and the names of those involved in the sale, with the intention of taking this matter up with the Australian Capital Territory Police for the purpose of prosecution. On leaving Red Hill he went to police headquarters and reported the incident. He spoke to Inspector Mills who, whilst sympathetic towards his feelings on what had happened, felt that very little could be done because of the laxity of the law in the Australian Capital Territory regarding such material. Nevertheless, Father Gahan requested Constable Hibberd to investigate the matter and he requested an interview with the constable on the following day, Wednesday, 4 September, after 3 p.m. It was after this that he first contacted His Grace, the Archbishop of Canberra-Goulburn, to inform him of what had happened and what action had been taken. 
On Wednesday, 4 September, at approximately 4 p.m. he again visited police headquarters and spoke to Constable Hibberd. The constable handed Father Gahan an envelope containing $2 as a refund for one of the articles he had left with Inspector Mills the previous day. The other article is still in Father Gahan 's possession. The constable went on to tell Father Gahan that he had spoken to the owner of the kiosk who had already removed the demonstration model from the showcase and had locked the display case containing the articles in question.  His  excuse for the sale to the children in question was that the staff were new to the job. The impression given by the constable was that the matter was now closed. Again Father Gahan was not prepared to accept this and repeatedly asked what further steps would be taken. The result was that the constable excused himself to refer the matter to another inspector. 
A short time later Inspector Broomby met Father Gahan, who repeated the details to the inspector. Like the previous inspector, Inspector Broomby felt that little could be done. However, Father Gahan persisted with the request that further action be instigated. Inspector Broomby agreed with Father Gahan that the article was obscene and that it had been sold to minors; that is, persons under 16 years of age. His attitude was still that nothing could be done because of the present law and he further pointed out that before the police could proceed with a prosecution in the area of pornography a magistrate's approval had to be obtained to seize the material in question. This material would then have to be submitted to that magistrate for his assessment of its pornographic content. If he agreed that the material was pornographic and prosecution was warranted it would be necessary to submit the case to the Attorney-General's Department for its approval or rejection before proceeding with prosecution. It would seem that this is where the crux of the problem lies. 
Again Father Gahan persisted by asking what would be the inspector's attitude if the object had been presented as a policeman or the Prime Minister. The inspector agreed with the validity of Father Gahan 's point of view and went even further to agree with his statement that as a Christian leader in the community if he did not take a stand on such matters as this, how could he expect other citizens to take a stand. In a word, the existence of the present approach in law has come about because of the people's apathy. In the whole of this matter Father Gahan continued to stress the one aspect of minors being exposed to and able to purchase pornographic or obscene material. He pressed this approach further with the inspector by stating that further action would be taken by him. Finally, having checked the statutes of the law, the inspector informed Father Gahan that the articles purchased would be regarded as pornographic and obscene and that the children in question were minors under the law. He then decided to request a full statement from the constable who first investigated the matter and also to prepare a report on it himself, both of which reports he would submit to the Commissioner for his decision on any further action. That is where the matter rested. 
Might I add that this pornographic material has come into this country from Hong Kong. If such items are on sale at a store here at Red Hill I venture to say that there would be hundreds of thousands of these merry monk items spread throughout the length and breadth of Australia. It is certainly a degrading insult to the priesthood- men who are involved in spreading Christianity in this country- to be defamed in such a manner. I think this matter should be taken further. It should be taken to the AttorneyGeneral. Young children in this country are being subjected to pornographic material of this nature which is coming from foreign countries such as Hong Kong. I think that something ought to be done about it and it should be stopped. 
I congratulate Father John Gahan of the East Maitland St Joseph's School for his action in this matter. He has gone to a lot of trouble. I hope his efforts will be rewarded. I trust that my speech tonight exposing this matter will receive consideration in the right quarters. This matter was featured on the national network's 'This Day Tonight' last Thursday night. It was brought to light by none other than Richard Carlton of the Aus.tralian Broadcasting Commission. I hope that the complaint made by Father John Gahan is investigated to the full and that pornographic material of this nature is prevented from entering Australia 
Can the Minister for Transport tell me whether there has been a considerable and unreasonable delay in loading and unloading ships and tankers in the port of Newcastle? Has this been caused by strike action of key unions involved? Is it a fact that as a result of this action transport and industry in northern New South Wales have been paralysed through lack of fuel, and valuable export income from grain and other produce has been threatened? What future action do the Minister and the Government intend to take to improve the turnround of shipping in the port of Newcastle? 
-I support the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Bill which seeks to extend the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Act 1 966-73 for a period of 1 2 months to 3 1 December 1975 pending an inquiry and report on the subsidy by the Industries Assistance Commission. We were pleased to hear on 7 April this year that Cabinet had decided to extend the payment of the subsidy to 31 December 1975. This will cost the Government some $12m. But we feel that this is a very small amount to pay when we consider the great production that nitrogenous fertiliser brings to this country through our rural industries and, as a consequence, to the Treasury. 
Until the late 1 950s almost the entire nitrogenous fertiliser market was associated with the sugar and horticultural industries. The sugar industry, located primarily in Queensland, was responsible for more than 50 per cent of the tonnage of nitrogenous fertiliser used. Horticultural use in the various States took up the balance. The early 1960s saw a rapid growth in the use of agricultural nitrogen in Australia. That was first evident in Western Australia where nitrogen was found to be a profitable means of increasing the wheat yields from new land or after a phase of cropping on the lighter soils of the low and medium rainfall belts. Stimulated by the increased yields obtained in Western Australia, the use of nitrogen on cereal crops grew rapidly in other States of Australia- in New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. 
There has been a tremendous growth in the usage of this fertiliser in Australia. From 1953, when 14,800 tons were used, the usage grew in 1968 to 135,000 tons. That indicates just what a tremendous asset nitrogenous fertiliser has been to the agricultural scene in Australia. In my own electorate of Patterson nitrogenous fertiliser is used extensively by the vegetable industry in the Maitland area and in the great black soil plains which are irrigated extensively for the growing of cereal crops, wheat, sorghum and barley. With world market prices down and costs rising agricultural producers will appreciate the extension of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. Primary producers are today faced with extremely heavy production costs and the prices they are receiving for the produce that they are selling on the world markets have dropped. So this measure will be of great benefit to the people of not only the Patterson electorate but also right throughout agriculture in Australia. Nitrogenous fertiliser is also used extensively in the pastoral section of the agricultural industry for the growing of legumes and for providing grasses for stock, sheep and cattle. 
I fully support the extension of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. I hope that the Government will look also at the superphosphate bounty, which is costing some $56m and which is of great benefit to our agricultural industries. I support the Bill. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  I believe that the present Budget is a disaster Budget. It provides for an expenditure of $ 16,274m or an increase of $3,980m over the 1973-74 Budget. This increase of 32.4 per cent is in itself highly inflationary. We on this side of the House knew that expenditure would be increased but we never thought that the increase would be of the order of 32.4 per cent. As I said, the Budget can be truly called a disaster Budget for Australia and its economy. 
No effort has been made to arrest inflation by cutting down government expenditure, reducing interest rates, reducing taxation across the board, legislating for full employment or getting to grips with the unions in an effort to increase productivity which is the answer to beating inflation. Problems have been created by the increase in interest rates which are charged mainly in the banking system and in the general commercial scene. These rates have risen from  6Vi  per cent to 1  Vh  per cent. We have seen competition in this country between the Government and the trading banks. As a matter of fact, only about 3Vi months ago one of our leading trading banks was prepared to pay an interest rate of 20 per cent to gain funds to enable it to carry on its business of banking. This has never been heard of before in Australia. It has created great financial problems for the business world, for primary industries and, most important of all, for the young people who have been seeking finance to build their homes. These high interest rates have prevented them in most cases from financing loans to build homes for themselves and their families. 
This Government has done nothing to arrest high inflationary interest rates. It has made no attempt to create full employment across the board. The elimination of the 25 per cent tariff on imported goods coming into this country has created chaos in certain industries. It has created a chaotic state in the textile industry, an industry which is well established in my electorate and in the electorates of many other honourable members throughout Australia. The textile industry is the most decentralised industry in this country and together with the clothing industry, which also has been seriously affected, employs approximately 200,000 employees, both male and female. Unless this Government takes heed of the warnings and reintroduces tariff restrictions on these goods coming in from Asian countries which have cheap labour resources, this unemployment in Australia will accelerate. 
We find in today's Press the headline: 'Factories shifting to Asia- Union'. The article points out that objections are being made by the trade union movement and states: 
Australian companies had set up factories in South-east Asia to make industrial gloves previously made in Newcastle, a Newcastle union official said last night. 
The Newcastle Secretary of the Miscellaneous Workers' Union  (Mr C. Johnson)  said only one company in Newcastle did not have its own factory overseas. 
These factories have closed. Good Australian workmen have been sacked and the principals, to keep their businesses going, have had to establish them overseas. The newspaper article continues: 

 Mr Johnson had sent the State Secretary  (Mr K. C. Blackwell)  details of factories overseas and asked for government action. 
We are battling to keep the industry going in Australia and are scratching all the time to keep women concerned in employment', he said. 
In the city of Maitland in my electorate at the moment there is an unemployment level of approximately 1,100 people, 500 of whom were retrenched from the great Bradmill textile works. I know that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is evolving a scheme to assist these people. But when a person has been employed in an industry all his main working days, has achieved success in it and has become competent in it, it is very difficult to find satisfactory employment elsewhere. 
These are problems that the Government must face up to. Whilst it may be all right to put quantitative restrictions on these goods coming into Australia, this is not a severe enough action. I have it on good authority that letters of credit have gone out to overseas companies for the importation of textile goods into Australia. I was asked a moment ago about devaluation. Certainly, devaluation will help. But it has come at a very late stage. Honourable members opposite will remember that I and my colleagues on this side of the House have been pressing for devaluation for a long time. It has come to pass and it certainly will benefit industry in Australia, but at the same time it could have an inflationary trend. The Government will want to look at this aspect. 
The great Broken Hill Pty Company Ltd is very concerned with inflation. This week its annual shareholders' meeting was addressed by the  Chairman  of that company,  Sir Ian  McLennan. BHP is probably our greatest industrial undertaking in Australia, one that has made a great impact on our economy and one that has provided excellent employment for hundreds of thousands of fine Australian employees. The report of  Sir Ian  McLennan 's address states: 

 Sir Ian told the annual meeting of BHP shareholders there were so many uncertainties ahead that he hesitated to make any firm forecasts. 'Almost without exception the Company is in good shape and in normal circumstances we could look forward to a good year', he said. 'Whether that will eventuate will depend largely on the external influences'. 

 Sir Ian said the Budget appeared to have made no contribution towards restraining, and ultimately reducing, inflation. 
It might worsen the situation, providing for great increases in Government expenditure- most of it non-productive. 
Here again is the crunch- productivity. The report continues: 
He urged the community to reject the view that Australia's inflation problems were wholly imported from other countries. 
We know there is inflation overseas but we must be ashamed of ourselves because in Australia we have the fourth highest rate of inflation in the world at present, rising to 20 per cent a year by December this year. The report continued:  'Some off-shore influences undoubtedly could not be withstood, but to achieve the levels of inflation at the speed we have seen surely indicates mistakes at home and not just abroad, 'he said. 
That came from the  Chairman  of our most successful industrial undertaking in Australia. The Treasurer of Australia, the Honourable Frank Crean, made a ministerial statement to this House on 23 July showing great concern over the inflationary trend in Australia and bringing forward certain policies which he felt would arrest inflation. It could almost be referred to as a mini Budget; it was a mini failure. It imposed an additional charge of 3c a nip on spirits, which will yield $39m in 1974-75, and certain other excise duties. 
-Yes, the charge was imposed on the brandy industry the other day. The Treasurer mentioned employment. What direction is employment to take in Australia with the uncertainties created by the present Government? In conclusion he said: 
I have sought tonight to make clear the Government's deep concern about current inflationary trends and its determination to act to bring them under control. 
What utter nonsense. He continued: 
To do so will require a balanced program designed to have an effective impact but which can readily be adjusted to the changing needs of the emerging situation. In our forthcoming budgetary deliberations we shall be seeking to shape such a program. In doing so, we shall I hope demonstrate the Government's determination to ensure reasonable protection for those who may be adversely affected by any measure taken, while at  the same time making it clear  that the halting of inflation is the necessary first step to the active resumption of our policies of social and economic advancement. Against that background I commend the measures I have outlined. . . . 
Certainly in this Budget there has been no attempt whatever to control inflation and the measures brought down by the Treasurer on 23 July certainly had no effect at all. I heard talk in the lobbies here today of the possible introduction of another mini Budget. This Government went to the polls on a policy of full employment. Now, owing to the action of the Government it is possible that by December of this year the number of unemployed in Australia will reach 200,000. Despite what has been said here about unemployment under the Liberal-Country Party Government, the number of unemployed never reached anything like that figure. At the present time money is flowing into the Commonwealth Treasury in Canberra from pay as you earn taxation at the rate of more than $400m a month. While this money from pay as you earn taxation is flowing into the Treasury, the Government could not care less about unemployment. 
It is difficult to comprehend how a government in 20 months, by its fiscal policy, could bring about a state of economic chaos and uncertainty. Yes, there is a loss of confidence in the business world. One has only to look at the stock exchanges in the various capital cities in Australia to see what is happening there. There is uncertainty and a lack of confidence. All our great concerns have reached rock bottom. There is also a lack of confidence in both primary and secondary industries. No wonder management and employees in industry do not know what will happen next. In a nutshell, confidence in the commercial world has been shaken, and the Budget does nothing to improve the situation. The credit squeeze brought about by this Government has also accelerated the rise in unemployment. We can look forward to lack of growth and a tremendous slackening off in the investment field. This will have a serious long term effect. Of course, already we have seen contracting and investment firms going to the wall. Unfortunately for Australia and for our work force there will be more firms going to the wall in the not too distant future. It is certainly not a Budget which will give confidence to our rural industries. Hundreds of thousands of Australians who live in our great country towns and cities in Australia will be affected. 
The 1973-74 Budget took more than $300m from primary producers, and the Budget for 1974-75 has done nothing to alleviate the financial problems with which primary producers are confronted. They are also confronted at the present time with falling prices for their products on the world market They have experienced adverse seasons and the credit squeeze has prevented them from developing their industry. I heard the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  say tonight that some of the primary producer firms, particularly Dalgety Australia Ltd, have been showing huge profits. I will quote to him the prices which were obtained for sheep and cattle at a sale which recently took place in one of the leading saleyards in my electorate. I will compare the prices obtained in September 1973 with those obtained in September 1974. In September 1973 bullocks of 585 kilograms brought $335 at 57.4c a kilogram. Similar bullocks sold in September 1974 brought $143. That is a drop in price of two-thirds. Steers of 450 kilograms brought $254 in September 1973 and $120 in September 1974. Yearlings of 320 kilograms brought $168 in September 1973 and $ 105 in September 1974. In September 1973 vealers of 270 kilograms were sold for $143. In September 1974 they were sold for $88. Bulls of 568 kilograms were sold for $33 1 in September 1973, and $144 in September 1974. What a catastrophe in the cattle marketing industry of Australia. 
Turning to sheep, whethers full wool, brought $23.30 in September 1973. Last week they brought $5. Woolley lambs were sold for $18.80 in September 1973. Last week they were sold for $9.40. Suckers brought $15.90 in September 1973. Last week they brought $8.50. In September 1 973 crossbred ewes, full wool, were sold for $22.20. Last week they were sold for $5. This is what is happening to the meat producers in Australia. Unfortunately the housewives, the consumers, have seen very little reduction in the price because the wages of slaughtermen have been increased tremendously, as have the costs of the meat inspection service. So we are not getting the cheap meat that we should. 
It is true that this Government has made available the considerable sum of $56.3m to local government authorities throughout the country in untied grants. But when we have a closer look at the figures we find that Commonwealth aid roads grants to shires and municipalities throughout Australia have been cut back very seriously. It is seen that the funds which will be made available following the recommendations of the Grants Commission will in the main just about strike even with the loss of their Commonwealth aid roads grants. My concern is that the legislation which is to flow from the Budget should be brought forward as quick as possible so that our municipalities and shires throughout Australia can get access to these funds. I received a telephone call today from the Shire  Clerk  of the Coolah Shire Council who told me that that Council has had its Commonwealth aid roads grant considerably reduced. I was told that normally it would have received its money by this time, and I was asked to see whether the payment of this grant from Canberra could be speeded up. Of course, this can be done only by the appropriate legislation being passed here in the Budget session. I ask that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  get together with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to speed up the payment of these grants to the shires throughout Australia. 
The Budget is a discriminatory one and is highly loaded in favour of city dwellers. It will encourage more people to live in the cities. This should not be our aim. We should be seeking to spread our population right throughout the length and breadth of the land. The Budget provides for millions of dollars to be spent on water and sewerage schemes in the capital cities, and an amount of $ 105 m has been allocated for this purpose. We believe that some of this money should be made available to the provincial cities and to our great country towns. The amount allocated to be spent on many facets of education certainly has been increased by 78 per cent. This is very good. But the one thing in relation to education about which we are very disappointed is that the allowable deduction for education expenses for taxation purposes is to be reduced from $400 to $ 1 50. This will have a serious effect right across the board, and particularly on the private schools. I therefore support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
-I rise to support the Bill to amend the Australian Tourist Commission Act 1967-73. As the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  stated in this House, the Bill was introduced on 19 March originally and, whilst debate did take place, it lapsed on the occasion of the double dissolution. As previous speakers have indicated, tourism in Australia is indeed very big business. Last year overseas tourists spent $150m. These tourists came mainly from New Zealand, the United States of America, Britain, Papua New Guinea and Japan. There were 472,000 of them- an increase of 10.7 per cent over 1972. The income from tourism to this country rose by 16.3 per cent. Both increases are higher than the world averages for 1973. This information comes from the International Union of Official Travel Organisations. 
As one would expect, New Zealand, being so close to Australia, continued to be our most important market representing one-quarter of the total visitors and spending $34.6m in this country. However, individual Japanese visitors spent more money than others, amounting to $410 during a visit, at a rate of $24 a day compared with $16 by Americans, $9 by New Zealanders and $5 by Britons. Tourism is a growing industry and more than half of Australia's population are now consumers of travel and tourism. The industry's income generation is estimated at $2,400m or 8 per cent of the gross national income. It is a growth industry with a capacity to double in size every seven or eight years. It provides an acceptable alternative industry in the non-urban areas. Its growth is related directly to the increased leisure and the rising personal disposable income of the Australian citizen. The more leisure hours that people have in Australia the greater the ability of citizens to travel and so increase tourism in Australia. The industry employs at least 10 per cent of the Australian work force, primarily in the fields of transport and accommodation. It is a major employer of female labour. It also employs a high proportion of casual workers. Travel and tourism can generate additional employment thus contributing to overcoming substantial seasonal, structural and technological unemployment occurring in other industries. 
The travel industry contributes to local, State and federal authority revenues not only through direct taxation but through the heavy throughput of products subject to excise, such as fuel and liquor. It contributes a high incidence of payroll tax, road tax, licence fees, sales tax on consumables, vehicle licence fees and inspection fees on transportation. Its contribution to Federal revenue funds was $33.2m last financial year. However as the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  knows, and as has been reported in various tourist articles, Australia has an adverse balance of trade. The figures for December 1973 show that 319,000 short-term visitors came to Australia whereas the short-term departures were 460,000. Receivables amounted to $139m and overseas spending $359m. There was a gap of $220m. This represented an increase of 25 per cent over the previous year. This is a serious situation. People in the tourist industry in Australia and particularly the Minister would recognise this fact and I am sure would be doing all they could to arrest this situation and to make our balance of trade more favourable from a tourist point of view. 
The Australian Tourist Commission is doing a splendid job overseas. It is interesting to note in the Budget figures that the allocation to the Department of Tourism and Recreation is to be increased this year. It is estimated that $8,356,000 will be spent this year as compared with $6,317,000 last year- an increase of more than $2m. I know that the Minister would have liked a bigger increase to enable him to promote our tourist industry both overseas and within Australia. The vote has been increased by $2m this year and no doubt he has his sights on a still higher vote next year. The main purpose of the Bui is to amend the existing Act to enable the Commission to enter the domestic tourist promotion field. This work was previously left to the State governments and various tourist associations. I pay a tribute to the State governments for the effort they have made in their respective States in promoting tourism and in granting financial assistance to tourist associations. The New South Wales State Government has conributed to tourist associations in New South Wales and I have no doubt that other State governments have done likewise in their States. 
My association has been with the North West Tourist Association in the north of New South Wales. In my electorate there are 2 associationsthe North West Tourist Association and the Hunter Valley Association- both receiving grants of approximately $10,000 from the State Government. This, with finance from local governing bodies, has enabled them to employ full time tourist officers who have done a grand job in promoting tourism in their respective areas. The State governments and local governments have played their pan and I have no doubt that the Tourist Commission, through the Minister, will co-operate to the full with State and local government authorities to increase the promotion of tourism. My own electorate has a great tourist potential. I am pleased that coach companies in New South Wales are taking full advantage of this potential. Weekend tours and weekly tours leave Sydney and Brisbane and pass through my area. The tourists inspect the vineyards which are a great attraction at Pokolbin and elsewhere. Tourist coaches are taking full advantage of this attraction. Near Maitland are the lovely surfing beaches, Lowstone Dam, Lake Liddell, Glenbawn Dam and Keepit Dam, all great tourist attractions. The State tourist associations are doing all they can to assist their promotion and I am pleased to say that this industry is developing. 
We must develop our own internal tourist industry to cater for overseas tourists. Devaluation most certainly will help overseas tourists who come to Australia. In my travels overseas I found that people complained that Australian costs were too high and that our dollar was under-valued. I feel that with the devaluation of the Australian dollar we will see in Australia more visitors, particularly from the United States of America. This could help our great tourist industry considerably. This Bill is being debated cognately with the Commonwealth Banks Bill. No doubt the Commonwealth Bank has provided considerable finance for this industry but with our present high costs and a high interest rate of 1 1.5 per cent it will be difficult to secure finance for tourist propositions and for facilities for tourists. A reduction in the interest rate would help the development of the tourist industry and enable the provision of more facilities. I support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I want to raise a matter in the House this morning concerning the fuel shortage in both the coastal and inland areas of northern New South Wales. I refer in particular to the shortage of motor spirit and distillate which has existed for the past 3 months, and is causing great concern to the people living in these areas. Northern New South Wales is serviced with motor spirit and distillate from the port of Newcastle and industrial disputes in that port covering 7 unions have been one of the main reasons for the shortage. A number of industries have been affected by the fuel shortage. The wheat crop has been affected at a time when we want to produce as much grain as we possibly can. Irrigation for stock and crops by diesel engines has been seriously affected by the shortage. Land is now being prepared for the sowing of sorghum in the next few months. We need to produce as much sorghum in this country as we can. However, the preparation of the land for this crop also has been seriously affected. Transport, both rail and motor, has been affected. We have a situation where no trains have been running in the north because distillate has not been available for the diesel locomotives which haul the trains. This means that the carriage of goods and mail has been seriously affected. Also, pension cheques have been arriving a week late and other inconveniences are being caused. 
Service station proprietors who have invested their money in the supply of motor fuel and distillate to their customers in many cases have been financially affected. I know of young people in my electorate of Paterson who have lost their life's savings which they have put into service stations because of the rentals and wages that they have had to pay. These people have had to walk out of their service stations because fuel has not been made available to them. Also, the employment situation has been seriously affected in the petroleum distribution industry. Many thousands of people in northern New South Wales are employed in bulk depots, in service stations and in other areas of petroleum distribution. This situation is having a serious effect on many of the towns in northern New South Wales. 
The Government is doing nothing at all to improve the situation. Inquiries made yesterday on the eastern seaboard revealed that  Vh  days supply of motor spirit was available. This situation has been brought about by the go slow tactics at the refineries at Kurnell and Clyde in New South Wales and the Amoco and Ampol refineries in Brisbane. Yet, as I said a moment ago, the Government is doing absolutely nothing at all to correct this situation. There has been a shortage of fuel for 3 or 4 months. Ample representations have been made to the Government advising it of the problems that exist. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in reply to a telegram from me said: 
I wish to acknowledge your telegram of 19 August 1974 concerning the current fuel crisis. 
I have noted your concern and wish to advise that I am doing everything in my power to achieve a settlement in this dispute. 
Absolutely nothing has been done. I wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  about this situation on 19 August. It took him almost 2 months even to reply to my letter. Rome burns while Nero fiddles. All the Prime Minister did in his letter of 27 September was to advise me of the situation at the port of Newcastle about which of course we already knew. He only sent me back the same information which we had relayed to him. 
The unions involved at the port of Newcastle represent tugmen, fitters and turners, ships9 engineers, transport workers, storemen and packers and clerks. We have had situations in which work on the unloading of a tanker which perhaps had been going on for a few hours has been interrupted because fitters have gone on strike. The fitters have then decided to go back next day but after they have returned to work the storemen and packers have gone on strike. These are very serious matters of which the Government has been fully advised and is aware. Yet it has done absolutely nothing. I understand that most of the unions involved come under Federal awards. I thought that, if we made strong representations to the Government, the Government would take this matter up with the unions to see that some sanity was restored because the adequate supply of motor spirit and distillate is the life blood of country areas and the transport system in Australia. 
A very serious situation could arise in regard to overseas tankers which service our 8 ports if these delays are allowed to continue. What tanker company or oil company would want to send tankers to Australia when it takes about a month to discharge their cargoes? We have had an instance of the 'Caltex Wellington', which is an overseas tanker, taking nearly a month to discharge distillate in the port of Newcastle because of the delays to which I have referred. Demurrage has been incurred by the company chartering this vessel. Inconvenience has been caused to the users of these fuels in northern New South Wales. So it is obvious that the overseas companies which supply Australia with 30 per cent of our distillate and motor spirit will think twice before they allow their tankers to come into our regions. 
I ask that the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Cabinet take a serious view of this fuel shortage on our eastern seaboard and in particular in northern New South Wales. These Ministers should be aware of the reason the shortages are occurring in northern New South Wales and not in the southern part of the State or in other States. They should be able to put the finger on the cause and effect a remedy to support the economy of northern New South Wales by ensuring that supplies are made available. Country areas rely entirely on motor transport. Our farms are mechanised; the work is done by machinery. When the supply of fuel is short industries in these areas cease to operate and there is a resulting effect on the local economies and the employment situation. As I have said, the employment of thousands of people who distribute petrol through depots and service stations, and who are engaged in primary industries and in the great transport industries of our nation is affected by the supply of fuel. Therefore I put the fuel situation to the Government as a very serious matter. It is one that I hope will receive the attention of the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Cabinet Ministers. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Northern Development, who represents the Minister for Agriculture in another place. Is it true that the Government will cease financial assistance for the tuberculosis testing of cattle on 3 1 December this year? Has this valuable program been half completed? If discontinued, will this be a great setback to the eradication of this disease? Will the Minister inform the House of the Government's intention in this important cattle industry problem? 

 -Mr Speaker, I want to speak tonight on a matter concerning the increase in unemployment in Australia. Every day one hears of employees being laid off in many diverse industries. This is brought about, of course, by the tight credit squeeze on the one hand and the tariff situation on the other hand. The tariff situation is the one which is really affecting industries in our country. Retrenchments in the Australian textile industry over the past few months have totalled some 15,000, or 10 per cent of the total work force. Since the announcement of those figures there have been further large retrenchments at both the mills in my electorate- Bradmill at Maitland and Courtaulds at Raymond Terrace- and at many textile mills in Victoria and Tasmania, where hundreds of employees have been put off. Textile industry authorities say that factors pointing to further retrenchments in the industry come under 4 headings: Firstly, the import restraints recently announced on the main Asian suppliers apply only to goods affecting about 5 per cent to 10 per cent of the textile markets, mainly knitwear. The import flood is still affecting other sectors. Secondly, the Australian industry is caught heavily in the liquidity squeeze, with slow payments for what it does produce. Thirdly, stocks are high, the result of heavy ordering of imports earlier this year, partly to build up stocks against any return to higher tariff levels and partly a reaction to the shortage apparent in many lines last summer. Fourthly, textiles are also being affected by the general downturn in demand. Preliminary figures of total imports for August have helped maintain gloom in the industry. 
It is interesting to see as the months go by the increase of imports coming into this country from overseas. In June the increase was of the order of $578.8m, in July $714.6m and in August $756.3m. There is evidence that many letters of credit have gone from the banks to traders to increase these imports further as the months go by. We are going to experience more unemployment in this industry with a great loss of wages and considerable problems for the people who have earned their living in the industry for many years. 
Yes, it is the greatest decentralised industry in Australia, employing some 200,000 people, and it is located in the main country districts of Australia. There has been a dramatic drop in local production of refrigerators, freezers, washing machines and clothes driers and this is threatening the jobs of thousands of Australian workers. Local manufacturers say that the pressures of declining sales and rapidly rising imports are threatening the white goods industry, which employs 10,000 workers. The industry expects to lay off hundreds of workers, indeed thousands, in the immediate future. Imports of refrigerators, driers and freezers coming from countries such as Greece, Yugoslavia, Japan and Brazil are now almost equal to our local production and Australian manufacturers are losing a huge slice of the market. Profits are marginal in this industry and unless the flow of these goods coming into this country is stopped there will be great problems in this sector of industry. 
Every day in the newspapers we see that some industry has closed down. It is not in one particular industry, it is in all industries that they are receiving severe competition from goods coming mainly from cheap labour countries. The Berlei company is a decentralised company in the Wollongong area, the area represented by last week's Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Connor).  That company has laid off 96 employees at Wollongong because of the lack of orders due to increased imports. The Government is playing down the crisis and the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has not shown great consideration for the position. On 2 October he claimed that the general level of unemployment was not serious because it was not causing undue hardship. Goodness me, this is utter rubbish, because it is causing hardship. The Minister said this at a prices conference. He said that the rise in unemployment had followed a boom period which was unusually high. We must convince men in the Cabinet like the Minister for Overseas 
Trade that it is a crisis, that it is a serious situation, and is causing loss of confidence in the business sector right throughout our land and in our country towns. In my own electorate of Paterson, in the city of Maitland we now have something like 1,300 people unemployed and this figure is increasing at the rate of approximately 20 per cent a month. Singleton, Mus.wellbrook, Scone, Quirindi, Denman, Meriwa and Coolah are all experiencing considerable unemployment. 
And in the electorate of the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  Unemployment is causing local people great concern. Shire councils in New South Wales have had their Commonwealth Aids Roads grants cut down. They have been given grants from the Grants Commission, we know, but it is robbing Peter to pay Paul. There are many shire councils in Australia, particularly in New South Wales, experiencing financial troubles and indeed laying off staff at the present time. They find that the money from the Grants Commission- which by the way has not gone through this Parliament yet- will not fill the gap caused by the loss of the CAR grants. I have received telegrams today from shire councils in my area expressing great concern over this. I know that Mainline Corporation Ltd, Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd, Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Pty Ltd and the Northumberland Insurance Co. Ltd have gone to the wall. This has brought about a loss of confidence in the commercial world and it will be interesting in the future to see if some other commercial enterprises go the same way. 
I urge the Government to act on this tariff problem immediately. It is no good having quantitative agreements with these overseas countries. We have got to be more positive than that. We have got to reintroduce the tariff and give our manufacturers in Australia some protection. Why the Government ever interfered with an industry which was going along on a sound economic basis employing thousands of Australians in a satisfactory manner one would never know. Whilst it might give some cheap goods to some people in this country, it is giving many families great concern because their breadwinner has been put out of employment and the family unit is going to suffer. It is a serious situation and wants immediate attention. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Northern Development. Is it a fact that thousands of tonnes of brisket beef are being rendered down by operators owing to depressed market conditions? Is this a valuable protein food? In view of the distressed condition of the meat industry will the Minister approach the Government immediately with a view to purchasing this meat for providing aid to underdeveloped countries? Would that assist the Australian meat industry and at the same time help our foreign aid policies? 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
Motion (by Mr Nicholls) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of Education 
Proposed expenditure, $275,522,000. 
It is coincidental that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  has spoken about the meat industry, some aspects of which I intend to take up. Since this Government came into office it has introduced 2 Budgets and brought down legislation which have really declared war on our primary producers. In the first year it slugged our great primary industries to the extent of over $300m. It did this at a time when our wool, meat and wheat were difficult to produce and when we had unfavourable markets. This is difficult to understand because, apart from supplying local markets, our great primary industries provided over 50 per cent of our export income. I have here the latest figures supplied by the statistical section of the Parliamentary Library which show that our grains, our pastoral products and our dairy and farmyard products accounted for over 50 per cent of our total export income of $6,905m. Great though our mining industries are and great though the development of our mining industries is, our wool, wheat and meat are still far and away the greatest export earners for Australia, and the Government should not lose sight of that fact. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  often states how important it is to increase our primary exports but he does not introduce legislation to enable this to be done. He does nothing to assist in this field. Over the years we have developed a huge meat export industry and when this Government came to power in 1972 we immediately witnessed an onslaught on this valuable export meat industry. We had 3 revaluations. In the first 6 months there was one by the mini-Cabinet comprising the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  and we had two in the next 6 months. In addition there was levied an export tax of lc per lb and a levy of 6c per lb for the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis. These charges have had a great effect on costs and have assisted in causing our immediate problem of being priced out of the American market. I have some most interesting figures here which show the downturn in the Australian meat export markets and here the four main countries to which we export- United States of America, Japan, Canada and Great Britaincome to mind. I will quote the figures for the first 6 months in 1973 and for the first 6 months in 1974. To the United States of America in the first 6 months in 1973 we exported 130,818 tonnes of beef and veal. In the same period in 1974 we exported 96,769 tonnes. 
It is a big drop. To the United Kingdom in the first half of 1973 we exported 52,577 tonnes and in the same period in 1974 the figure was 14,87 1 tonnes. That is a big drop also. To Canada in the first half of 1973 we exported 13,003 tonnes and for the same period in 1974 it was down to 7,370 tonnes. Exports of beef and veal to Japan in the first half of 1973 totalled 55,870 tonnes and in the first half of 1974 they dropped to 20,672 tonnes. 
Less than half. Those are the figures for the first 6 months of 1973 compared with the same period in 1974. The latest figures reveal a further downturn in exports of our beef and veal. The cattle industry in Australia is in urgent need of finance, as the honourable member for Mackellar has said. We would say that at least $200m carry-on assistance to the cattle producers of this country will be required. About 1.75 million fewer head of cattle will be killed this year because of the export downturn. If the market had not collapsed to such an extent these cattle would have brought in something like $200m to producers. For producers who depend entirely on cattle this situation creates very serious liquidity problems. In Australia 13,000 farmers and graziers depend entirely on cattle for their livelihood. The Australian National Cattlemen's Council estimates that many producers will suffer up to a 50 per cent drop in their gross farm income even before meeting a 20 to 25 per cent increase in their production costs. Calculations in some specific regions show that producers are getting a price for their meat that is little more than half the cost of producing. 
The great danger in all this is that producers will be forced to sell off their basic breeding stock. We should be looking at this matter in a very serious vein to see that our breeding stock is not sold but is maintained and that those farmers who are holding this breeding stock are assisted financially. The industry is not asking for special treatment but merely for the Government to see that funds are available through the normal sources at ordinary commercial interest rates. It must be recognised, of course, that any action to make large sums available will have some slight inflationary effect. It must be weighed up against the very serious long term consequences that would flow from the sacrifice of very valuable breeding stock to help producers meet what seems likely to be only a short term liquidity problem. 
The Government should give serious consideration to suspending the charges now imposed upon the industry for export inspection services and the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. It is believed that the industry would be prepared to consider this matter again perhaps in a different form when the market situation returns to normal. At present these charges are proving a very heavy burden for a seriously depressed industry to bear. The Government will be collecting far more from the industry this year than it needs to finance these operations, so it would be reasonable for the Government to suspend the charges for the time being at least and look at the whole question again later. 
Two of the most urgent needs are an all out effort to reopen Australia's major beef market and in the meantime provision of finance to carry producers through the crisis period. No doubt the market situation is extremely difficult and there is little prospect of a quick recovery. As one who is connected with the meat industry and who meets people and representatives of various trading firms and exporters of beef, I can say that these people are of the opinion that it will take some 18 months for the market to pick up. A crash in the beef industry would be bigger than any of the other failures that have taken place over the years. We are very fortunate that we have had good seasons and the farmers and graziers have been able to hold their stocks, because we would have a real calamity in this country should drought conditions take over when we are holding 3 1 million cattle as we are at present. 
-The purpose of this Bill is to authorise payments of $56,345,000 to local governing bodies in Australia in 1974-75. It is noted that 806 local governing bodies throughout the country will benefit by the passing of this Bill and, with the present position of local government, the sooner the money is appropriated the better. During the past few weeks there has not been a local governing body in the Paterson electorate that has not contacted me to express concern about its dire financial position and to ask when the money allocated by the Grants Commission would be made available by the Government. So it is good to know that the Bill which we are debating here today will be passed quickly and should alleviate the problems being experienced by many of these local governing councils. However, many shire councils throughout Australia have been cut down on their Commonwealth Aid Roads grant money and are experiencing financial difficulties, and the grants that are being made to them by the Grants Commission and by the Government will not make up for the loss of funds from the CAR grants, and this is a great pity. 
My own association with local government has been over a 31 -year period, so I have been able to see the great change that has taken place in this sphere of government over a long time- one could say from the horse and buggy days, with requirements only for the repair of footpaths and roads and items of that nature, to the present time when local government is required to provide all modern amenities with an outmoded method of financing. There are many instances where local governing bodies have possibly over-stretched their resources and have endeavoured to do too much with too little; but most modern local governing bodies are required to provide services such as libraries and child minding centres and recreational facilities like sporting ovals and swimming baths; in many instances they undertake the operation of meat abbatoirs. They are part and parcel of electricity reticulation authorities, gas reticulation authorities and weed eradication bodies. You name it, local government is expected to play its part in it. 
With the increased costs and the greater needs of local governing bodies it is only reasonable that they should receive an adequate part of the country's finances. I have always been in favour of local governing authorities receiving assistance from the Australian Government of the day, but I have some reservations. With the great experience, expertise and know-how of the various local government departments in the States, it would have been more economical, more efficient and in many ways much better for the Grants Commission to have made this money available to these departments, which have the know-how and expertise, and which could have then made it available to the local governing bodies in their respective States. A big commission has been built up here to deal with these grants when the Government could have made the money available to the States, which already have the set-up which is required to distribute the funds. There have been instances recently where town and shire clerks have again had to supply to the Australian Government further information in regard to the Grants Commission. If this had been handled by the local government departments in the States, which already had this information, the payments could have been expedited and the money made available much more quickly than has been the case under the Grants Commission. The finances of local government authorities have certainly been tested to the full. Local government's problem has not been one of loan moneys; there has been sufficient loan money available to local government throughout Australia. What has not been available is revenue funds. Loan moneys are very nice when you get them, but they have got to be serviced over the years. The capital has got to be paid back and the interest has to be paid, and this involves local government in increased costs and in problems in repaying loan moneys. What local government wants is to have revenue funds made available to it. As I have said, I feel sure that there would have been a great saving in costs had the money been channelled through the State local government departments. 
I am very pleased to see that  Mr Justice  ElseMitchell has been appointed as  Chairman  of the Grants Commission. This appointment could result in changes in methodology within the Commission.  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell has spent a lifetime of investigation into the finances of local government, particularly in New South Wales. I have discussed this matter with him on quite a few occasions and he was of the opinion that it was essential that Australian Government money should be made available to local government to help it overcome its financial difficulties. After discussion with members of the Commission the view can be expressed that the short time span available for the formulation of grants for 1974-75 resulted in many short cuts being taken, and one can readily see why this was so. However, many lessons have been learnt and these will be taken into account in the future. The operation of the Commission in this field, of course, is regarded as evolutionary and the first attempt has been very much a trial attempt. I think that in fairness we must say that this would be so, because it is the first grant to be made by the Australian Grants Commission. There will be teething problems in this field. 
Guidelines, of course, and methodology are developing further and future recommendations may be expected to take this into account. The Commission gives no guarantees that changes in guidelines or in methodology will be reflected in increased grants in the future. I feel that this is a wise precaution. I believe also that the quality of the submissions had no adverse effects on the level of the grants that were recommended, and this should put shire council clerks at ease. The Commission has informed us that it is anxious to continue to receive submissions from councils and that it will undertake to inspect problem areas to correct data deficiencies and supplement information received. The Commission wishes to be informed in writing of any queries or observations in respect of the first grants or lack of grant well in advance of the next hearings which, I understand, are due to commence shortly. Many councils have expressed the view that a base grant should form part of the recommendations so that each council would receive some amount. Unless the Government is prepared to issue such instructions to the Commission this would not be a possibility, and honourable members would readily see this to be so. 
Although the Commission makes working papers available to State governments it is not prepared at this stage to make working papers available to local government bodies. In my own electorate of Paterson there are 16 purely local government councils and most of them have received grants from the Grants Commission. Most of them are in extreme financial difficulties. The shire clerk of the Coolah Shire Council, which is in my electorate, was here today and he expressed great concern about the fact that this council will have to lay off employees unless this grant money is made readily available to him. 
An amount of $58,000 has been made available to that shire. If this Bill goes through promptly that appropriation should be made by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  early in December. These amounts which are to be made available to these councils should help them over their problems and difficulties. It is noted that weed eradication authorities, reticulation authorities, abattoir processing plants and gas distributing authorities do not come under the Grants Commission for assistance, and I think that this is a fair thing. They are trading undertakings in the main and no grant should be made to them. They should be endeavouring to put their own houses in order and run then- own undertakings on enonomic lines, which they can do. 
I have noted that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said in his second reading speech that the Commission will continue to rely heavily on the co-operation of councils in its work. The Minister continues: 
Its methods require that comprehensive and up to date financial and statistical information be submitted by them as a basis for its assessments. There is also the need to have a first-hand appreciation of the problems of Councils and, in the course of its second round of public hearings, which have already commenced, Commissioners will be making direct inspections in all regions. The nature of the program will also provide the Commission with opportunities to keep the needs of Councils under continuing review. 
I notice also that in the Minister's second reading speech great reliance is placed on the formation of regional councils. I would agree with this and also agree with the Minister that the formation of these regional councils in the formulative stages has been quite successful. I was afraid that when they were first formed parochial attitudes of the constituent councils would show themselves very forcibly. But in the main these regional councils have appeared to work extremely well. Those councils which have received grants are, in the main, satisfied with the grants they have received. 
I heartily support the Bill. I have condemned it in one aspect, and that is that I feel- I reiterate this- that the money could have been made available to the local government departments in the States which have the expertise and the know-how so that they could allocate it according to the information that they have. But I know that the Grants Commission, having been set up here in Canberra, will continue to function, and as it gains more knowledge of the local governing bodies and their requirements throughout Australia it will be able to handle the grants in a more equitable and more efficient manner. I support the Bill. 
-The Livestock Slaughter Levy Bill 1974 and the Livestock Slaughter Levy Collection Bill 1974 have the support of the Opposition. Briefly, the Bills extend the operation of the livestock slaughter levy from 1 June 1975 to 30 June 1977. The funds collected provide finance to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for scientific research in connection with beef, mutton and lamb processing. It is paradoxical that we are presently debating this legislation when the meat industry is undergoing its greatest crisis since the depression. Honourable members will be aware that prices, particularly for cattle, are at extremely low levels and, in terms of comparative money values, lower than they were during the depression. It is against this background that I think comment should be made. 
The present position of the beef industry is extremely disturbing, not only from the viewpoint of the beef industry but also from the viewpoint of the nation. The total collapse of the beef industry would pose a grave economic crisis not only for the rural sector of the national economy but also for the total national economy. Honourable members on this side of the House believe that the industry must not be allowed to collapse. The collection of funds under these Bills could develop interesting avenues of research, results of which could improve significantly the marketability of Australian meat, both domestically and internationally. Most of the funds raised by this levy are expended by the CSIRO at its Cannon Hill research station in Brisbane. The work being undertaken there is developing new areas of knowledge in meat processing which are being passed on to processors and improving the quality of the final product from our abattoirs. Most of us engaged in the abattoir business in Australia have special quality processors at the meat works who, if they have difficulties, can communicate with the people at Cannon Hill who have the final authority in this matter. 
From a reference to the annual report of the Australian Meat Research Committee it can be seen that the projects being undertaken with the money raised by these Bills are contributing significantly to improving consumer appeal of meat to consumers. For instance, significant research has recently been undertaken into the effect of feedstuffs on meat quality and taste. An expansion of the findings from this report could lead to better forms of management practice which would ensure that producers could avoid producing for slaughter cattle with undesirable consumer flavours. Other investigations which are taking place include: More effective methods of waste disposals from abattoirs, particularly in relation to boned digestion of gut materials from slaughtered animals to produce high quality fertiliser; studies in reducing bacterial contamination of hot boned beef; studies into the refrigeration technology of freezing carcasses; the best methods of conditioning mutton by hanging after slaughter; and, studies into producing well marbled beef for which premium prices are paid. The CSIRO is to be congratulated on this work which I fully believe will lead to significant and potentially great changes in the industry. 
However, it would be remiss of me not to refer again to the present position of the beef industry. From these Bills approximately $90,000 to $100,000 will be raised from the meat processors. Although the processors pay the levy directly, it is really the meat producers who pay for it in terms of the price they receive for their cattle. Thus, it is important to examine their financial position. The present position of the meat industry is parlous. There is an urgent need . for the industry to be provided with carry on finance, particularly in view of the depressed outlook for world trade in beef. The level of finance I am talking about is estimated conservatively to be approximately $50m. An amount of $200m has been mentioned by other people in the industry. But I would say conservatively that an amount of $50m would be required. This finance could be supplied from the Rural Credit Department of the Reserve Bank of Australia. I know that the Government is currently holding talks on the provision of finance. But I understand that it has ruled out the possibility of making funds available from the Reserve Bank. Instead, it appears to pursuing the argument that the finance should be arranged in a basket of funds drawn from the trading banks and the brokers. The shortcomings of this proposal, as opposed to the Reserve Bank avenue of finance, are the high interest rates that would be faced and the fact that the availability of finance from the trading banks and the brokers is severely restricted because of the rising indebtedness of the rural sector caused by the general decline in commodity prices over a wide spectrum of the rural economy. 
The recent failure of the talks with the Japanese Prime Minister and the lack of indication that the Americans will reopen their beef markets to us points to an extremely difficult period facing the meat industry in the short term. I have no doubt personally that the medium and long term prospect for the industry is good. However, I believe that in the short term the Government must take action to help the industry meet its current problems. One of the most valuable ways the Government could help the industry would be for it to suspend the other levies on the growers which the Labor Government increased last year. The suspension of such levies would not mean the cancellation of the research programs financed under a different Act. The Government itself could take up the short fall caused by the suspension of growers' contributions until the industry overcame its problems. The Opposition supports original research into all aspects of the industry. However, it feels that at this point in the meat industry's history the Government should consider suspending the levy and making up the short fall itself. Such a suspension would allow the industry to have funds which are presently deducted at the time of slaughtering. It would, to put it bluntly, improve to some degree the liquidity of the industry. Such an improvement is urgently needed and I think the Government would see the wisdom of such a step. 
The other point I wish to raise with regard to the legislation is that I firmly believe that the results of the research which have flowed from similar Bills in previous years could be used by the Government in the development of a food aid program involving meat products. There is no doubt that if Australia could give an increasing proportion of its food aid in meat and meat products the position of the meat industry would be improved. At the present time, we have a situation in this country in which brisket beef is being rendered down as meat meal. This brisket beef could be frozen and exported to those underprivileged countries in its frozen form. It would provide a valuable protein food for their peoples. The Government should look at this proposition because we could help ourselves and help these underprivileged countries at the same time. The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  recently returned from Rome after promising a record amount in food aid to the developing countries. Studies that have been undertaken by the CSIRO into the processing of meat have meant that there is widening knowledge of the best methods of treating meat for a wide range of markets. This knowledge should be used by the Government so as to allow it to incorporate meat in our food aid program. I therefore call for urgent talks between the Government and the CSIRO on what practical forms of food aid involving meat can be undertaken immediately. Such an undertaking would be welcomed by the industry. I heard today in the lobbies that there is a possibility of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  getting together on this important subject which will, as I have said, benefit Australia and the underprivileged countries. 
I appreciate that there are substantial problems in arguing the case of meat as food aid. However, the research at Cannon Hill could overcome many of these problems. In addition, I would urge the Government during the 214 years of the research program to which these Bills give effect to look at new avenues of processing meat. As you would well know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  Cannon Hill is the headquarters of the Queensland Meat Industry Authority on the Brisbane River. Such methods could lead to substantial cost saving within the industry. Much of the production cost problems which have confronted the industry in the past 18 months have been at the processing end where wage rates and slaughtering charges have risen out of hand. I think there is a need to develop methods of cattle slaughtering and meat processing which will reduce these charges wherever possible. 
I also recommend that serious study be given to the processing of meat into forms for which there is an untapped consumer potential. For instance, in the United States of America an important market is opening up for biltong style processed meat. It is basically being sold as a candy and American processors are amazed at the consumer acceptance of it. This is something that should be explored, as well as further research into freeze-drying of meat and dehydration of meat. One of the great problems that we are facing with respect to the meat industry is the high cost of storage of meat. Investigations of alternative methods of storage and processing which do not involve expensive refrigeration will significantly reduce this problem and I urge that it be more widely investigated. 
In conclusion I reiterate that the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. However, we believe that the Government must take urgent action to reduce the problems facing the meat industry and to improve consumer acceptability of meat and at the same time consider the suspension of levies that growers have to pay in order to improve the liquidity position of the industry, with the Government taking over the growers' component of the contribution until the situation in the meat industry has improved. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
I wish to raise tonight rumours concerning the abolition of the Travelling Post Office attached to the rail services in New South Wales. Employees of the TPO have been advised that this service will cease as from February 1975. This service has for more than 70 years given a daily mail delivery to post offices in the Sydney suburban and country areas of New South Wales. The recent fuel shortage experienced by the Public Transport Commission will give some indication as to what delays in mail deliveries can be expected. Delays of up to 14 days were common and that crisis lasted for a few weeks only. If allowed to develop this situation could last for many years and cost the people of Australia a massive amount of taxpayers' money to find an alternative service. 
It would appear that the Public Transport Commission, which has been savagely cutting services in New South Wales in recent months and which has been made by public opinion to restore a number of these services, is responsible to some degree for this situation. But the PostmasterGeneral's Department is by no means without fault in this matter as it is the authority which is responsible for the renewal of contracts for this service with the New South Wales Railways. It has been found that the Travelling Post Office service is one of the cheapest means of transportation of mails in this country. The provision of an amount of money that will be of advantage to both the Public Transport Commission and the Postmaster-General's Department should be given the fullest consideration by the highest authorities in both the PTC and the PMG's Department before this worthwhile service is allowed to become non-existent. 
This development is to be deplored as, over the years, it has been found that the TPO is one of the most economic means of transporting mails in this country. It is a most reliable service, providing country people with a most reliable system of having mail delivered in the city the following day. In the outback parts of New South Wales and, I presume in other Australian States, the TPO mail service is the only mail service that many people living on outback properties and along the railway line receive. A daily service is provided by the TPO. It is a great service to them and to our nation. This service should not be allowed to deteriorate and to be dropped, as is indicated by the employees of the Department. 
The TPO service is the backbone of efficient delivery of mail from country areas. In times of industrial strife, as I have already mentioned, mails are delivered to and from country areas of 
New South Wales and interstate. The withdrawal of such a service would be disastrous. The Public Transport Commission is in favour of its withdrawal and the PMG Department, as has already been mentioned, must make up its mind whether it wants to continue this service. We members of the Australian Country Party on this side of the House wish to see this service maintained. Over the past few years we have seen too many services taken away from country people throughout Australia. Other services to these people have been disrupted. The PMG 's Department is the one responsible for the renewal of mail contracts. The elimination of the TPO service would be a retrograde step and a further severe downgrading of postal services in this country. I hope that the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  in the other place takes cognisance of this fact and what I have brought forward here tonight. It is presumed that February next is the deadline. It is now 20 November. So, we should muster our forces and impress upon the powers that be just how important this service is to the people of Australia. 
Yes, of course. 
-I desire to- 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-In the time that is available to me tonight I wish to bring to the notice of the Parliament and the Government a serious problem which exists in the Singleton district in my electorate. I am pleased that the 
Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is at the table because portion of this matter comes within his administration. It concerns the cartage of coal by road from the Wambo mine and the Buchanan Lemington mine at Warkworth, which is just outside Singleton. This coal is carted through the main street of the town and down the New England Highway to a coal dump at Branxton railway station. Then many of these trucks go beyond that point to Hexham and on to Newcastle. Most of these huge trucks carry 30 tons of coal and more. At present they are doing something like 50 full trips a day through the town. When one includes their return trips, that means 100 trips a day. This is extremely dangerous. John Street, Singleton, is a very busy thoroughfare which carries not only district traffic but through traffic from Sydney on the Putty road. It is dangerous from a traffic point of view to pedestrians, particularly to school children. 
The use of this road by coal trucks is having a very damaging effect upon the John Street roadway, and deterioration in this area is taking place at a very rapid rate. Coal dust is entering the buildings which front John Street. The business premises have a very difficult coal dust problem not only in their premises but on the goods which they sell and display. This coal is for the export market. Recently the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  informed this House and the Australian people that the Government had invested $3. 7m in the Wambo mine and had made an immediate loan of $700,000. This was done through the Petroleum and Minerals Authority which was set up by this Government. It has given the Australian Government a 40 per cent interest in this mine. The other mine is the Lemington colliery which is conducted by Buchanan Borehole Collieries Pty Ltd. Four thousand acres in the Warkworth area have been taken over on lease by 2 very large mining interests. I will not name them tonight. They intend to start operations as soon as possible. This will double the traffic which already uses the road. 
The way to overcome this problem is to provide a by-pass road around Singleton, around the Army camp, coming out on to the New England Highway at Whittingham. This will be a fairly expensive job. Only 4 miles of road are involved. I suggest that it might be a temporary expedient. This huge development of coal production in the area will probably warrant the construction of a railway line in the years that lie ahead. Coal is a valuable export earner. It will increase very considerably in value in the near future. 
Only last week the Minister for Transport agreed to meet a deputation from the Singleton Municipal Council and the Patrick Plains Shire Council to look at the proposition concerning the road. Unfortunately, because of the airline strike the deputation was unable to come to Canberra but I know that the Minister is prepared to meet this deputation at a suitable time in the near future. I am suggesting that the Government should provide funds to build this road and also to give further consideration to the establishment of a railway line in the Warkworth area. I know that the Minister for Transport is sympathetiche has indicated this in his letter- and I know also that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  will come into the picture because of the coal being exported from the area. 
This is a very hot question in the Singleton district. The 7,500 people who live there are extremely concerned at the dangerous situation which exists and which is increasing day by day. They have asked me as the Federal member for the area to do what I can to help. Therefore I have drawn it to the attention of the Government which I trust in its wisdom will see its way clear to provide this road and then, at a future date, to look at the possibility of constructing a railway line from the Warkworth area to link up with the main northern line at Whittingham. 
-The Handicapped Persons Assistance Bill, which has the full support of my colleagues in this Parliament, is really a Bill to repeal the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act. It consolidates and expands the programs of assistance to voluntary organisations that have assumed responsibility for the welfare of handicapped people. The people who form such organisations are providing a magnificent service for handicapped persons. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  on quite a few occasions during his second reading speech expressed praise and appreciation for the work of these voluntary agencies. He said: 
There is a very special role for them to play for there are many people whose needs are best served by these organisations. Although the Australian Government provides for the general economic welfare of the disabled, it is the voluntary organisations that are able to help, in a way not possible for a government department, in the personal day-to-day care of many mentally or physically handicapped people. 
It is good to hear such praise being given to these organisations throughout Australia. 
In my own electorate of Paterson I have a personal interest in several of these very fine institutions. I feel that there is not a member on either side of this House who would not desire to assist in providing welfare for handicapped people. With assistance and encouragement it is just wonderful how these people can fit into the community and make a useful contribution even to trade and commerce. I refer to the Mai- Wei Industries sheltered workshop at Maitland in my electorate where handicapped persons are taught to make and to restore furniture of all kinds, to repair and to make toys, to make tags and a host of other useful activities. Attached to this handicapped persons' institution is the MaiWel handicapped children 's school. It is wonderful to visit this school and to see the dedication of the teachers and the way in which they encourage handicapped children in various methods of learning. 
It is also good to visit the sheltered workshops and to see the dedicated work which is being done there. One sees appreciation on the faces of the handicapped persons who are working under such conditions. They have dedicated tutors helping them on their way. At Muswellbrook in my electorate there is a handicapped children's school. It has lovely conditions and has the full support of the whole community. I note the Minister's appreciation. It is pleasing to see communities not only in country areas but also in cities supporting these handicapped persons' sheltered workshops, homes and schools. Without public contribution and assistance these institutions would not progress and they would not provide the services which they do today. The people working there are dedicated to their job. When we were in government both the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act were introduced and implemented. We support the action of the present Government in amalgamating both measures in the Handicapped Persons Assistance Bill. It is of great importance to note that the number of persons employed in sheltered workshops in Australia is almost 10,000. From observations made travelling about this great country of ours there is no doubt that these figures will increase as the years go by and greater assistance from the Government will be needed. 
Present production from the sheltered workshops is running at $ 1 6m which is quite a considerable contribution to trade and commerce. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  cited this figure and he indicated that there was a deficiency. One would expect a deficiency in this field. I do not think anybody on either side of the House would quibble at a deficiency occurring in these institutions for the handicapped. It is no wonder that governments appreciate the need for further financial assistance in this field. The Bill provides for the needs of handicapped children and handicapped adults who do not require constant medical attention but who, nevertheless, need special facilities and encouragement to take their rightful place in the community. When one visits these institutions and expresses encouragement to the people working in them it is wonderful to see the expression on their faces and to see how much they appreciate that citizens go there and offer encouragement. It means so much to these people. 
It is noted that the subsidy for the establishment of sheltered workshops, training control for handicapped children and hostels for children and adults has doubled from $2 to $4 for every $1 raised by voluntary organisations. The doubling of the subsidy by the Government should further encourage local organisations to get behind this movement and to provide further amenities and facilities for handicapped persons both in the sheltered workshops and in the schools for handicapped children. It is pleasing to note that in the Bill the benefit for handicapped children has been increased from $3 to $3.50 a day and also that consideration will be given to these children being paid this amount when they are not attending the school but are at home over the weekend with their parents. I have been brief in speaking on the Bill but it has our full support. As I have said, I do not think there is a member on either side of the House who is not impressed with the help and service which handicapped persons are receiving from organisations in this country. I support the Bill. 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: Did the Minister and the Government announce a financial investment in Wambo coal mine at Warkworth in the Paterson electorate to the extent of $3.7m, plus a $700,000 loan? Was this the same proposition as was put forward by Australian Anglo American Ltd, which contract was submitted to the Minister for approval? Did the Minister then decide to take over this contract? Is it a fact that Wambo Mines has not been advised officially of the Government's intention? Has Australian Anglo American not been advised that its proposition, as submitted, has been rejected? Will the Minister lay down future guidelines so that mining interests do not stand the risk of having submissions sabotaged by the Petroleum and Minerals Authority? 
-The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his second reading speech made it clear that the purpose of this Bill is to extend the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act 1972-1973 until 31 December 1975. He also very clearly indicated that it is the Government's intention to incorporate its proposals into new legislation, but he set out the reasons why this has not been possible. No doubt after December 1975 we will see a new Bill along the lines of the Government's proposals. 
-December 1974. As at 30 June 1973 there were 404 branches of overseas companies operating in Australia and there were 2,123 Australian subsidiaries of overseas companies (excluding sub-subsidiaries of the Australian companies operating in Australia. This indicates very clearly the important part that overseas capital is playing in the development of Australia and in the trade of this country. We have to have foreign investment in Australia to develop our great mining, petroleum and pastoral industries. The present Government has certainly not encouraged overseas capital in these fields. Let us take the petroleum industry. When the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party were in government there were 1 9 off-shore drilling rigs operating in Australia. At the present time there are only two. The reason is that the Government has discouraged overseas knowhow, overseas expertise and overseas capital, which is risk capital, in our petroleum industry. It is most important to encourage overseas risk capital in this industry and to improve our production of crude oil in this country. At the present time we are producing 70 per cent of our petroleum needs from Bass Strait, Barrow Island and Moonie in Queensland, but these finds are not being increased. They are decreasing. So it is extremely important that we encourage overseas capital in this field to give us more petroleum production in this country, to save foreign exchange and to help us economically. 
The same thing applies to the mining industry in this country. The present Government has discouraged overseas capital in this field. It has laid down no guidelines, and the mining companies do not know where they stand from the point of view of capital to develop the mines and from the point of view of marketing the minerals which they produce. The same situation pertains to our great pastoral industry. As I have mentioned, the Government has not encouraged overseas companies to come into this great country of ours. We must have overseas capital, but it should not be allowed to take over our great industries in Australia. There is plenty of overseas capital available on a minority share basis if it receives encouragement. This Government has realised the great mistake it has made. It has turned about face and has found that it must encourage the investment of overseas capital here. 
For instance, on his recent overseas trip the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said in the United States of America that the Australian Government now welcomed foreign investment. This is a complete change of policy. He reacted strongly to suggestions that this apparent about face by the Government indicated that its original policy on foreign investment had failed. He said that economic conditions had changed in the past 2 years and that different conditions had to be met by different measures. Speaking at a Press conference in Washington after a hectic day of almost hourly talks with a wide range of United States Government officials in the capital, the Minister for Overseas Trade said when questioned about an apparent change in the Australian Government 's policy on foreign investment: 'That is a loaded question. We are not changing policy. The economic situation has changed. ' In the past few weeks there has been a complete reversal of this Government's attitude to foreign capital coming into Australia. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  took over in 1972 the barriers against money coming into our country were strengthened. Overseas companies had to deposit 33  Vi  per cent of their capital with the Reserve Bank for 2 years, interest free. The proposals which needed foreign money were carefully screened, and the impression was put about that Australia did not need overseas money. What a change there has been! We find that overseas investment in this country dwindled to such an extent that the 33  lA  per cent statutory deposit with the Reserve Bank was brought down to 25 per cent. Then it was changed to 5 per cent, and now it has disappeared altogether. The deposit requirement has gone. 
Recently, on his overseas trip, the Minister for Overseas Trade reassured private investment corporations that Australia would welcome their money and that 'profit' was no longer a dirty word in this country. I was interested to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  ask today: 'What money has  Dr Cairns  achieved for this country on his visit to the United States and to other areas?' The  Deputy  Prime Minister has made no statement as to whether he was successful in obtaining foreign capital for Australia. This position should be cleared up and a statement should be made so that we know whether his overseas visit was successful. Both the Prime Minister and the Treasurer have made soothing statements along the same lines about the encouraging of overseas capital into Australia. Australian industry is seriously short of capital. It is clear that the private sector will not be able to expand- and thus the economy will not be able to survive- without substantial investment funds. Only the most optimistic and naive nationalists think that internal capital generation will provide anything but a small proportion of our requirements. From the remarks of the Minister for Overseas Trade it should be obvious to industrial and banking leaders overseas that the 
Government does not now subscribe to that view. 
Australia received a flood of foreign capital in October following the 12 per cent devaluation which took place in late September. No doubt the devaluation was clearly the main reason for the sharply increased rate of inflow from $10m in September to $230m in October. Possibly the September and October figures together even out the influence of devaluation on capital flows. But there is no doubt that this Government has found in the 2 years it has been in office that it cannot do without overseas capital to develop our petroleum, mining, pastoral and manufacturing industries in this country. But these overseas people, having been discouraged in the first 1 8 to 20 months of the Labor Government, will be reticent about re-investing funds in Australia. Therefore, it behoves the Government to do all it possibly can to attract overseas capital to develop our great industries in Australia. I say: Do not let overseas capital take over in this country but do not discourage it. As I said earlier in this speech, there is plenty of overseas capital ready to come to Australia for a minority shareholding in our great enterprises. 
-I support the Bill for an Act to authorise the giving of guarantees on behalf of Australia in respect of loans made for the purposes of structural adjustment in industry. At the outset, I should say that this Bill has been made necessary by the maladministration of the economy by the present Government. There would be no need whatsoever for Bills of this nature to be presented to this House if the Government had acted wisely and had managed the economy efficiently. There was no need to make a 25 per cent tariff cut right across the board which has created such chaos in the manufacturing industries of this country. It is interesting to read the comments of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  in his second reading speech. He said that the Bill is: 
To help progress towards the community's social and economic goals, the Government sees it as desirable in appropriate cases to promote and make easier the process of structural change in industry. 
For the reasons that I have mentioned, this structural change in industry should not be necessary. When we look at the reasons for the problem being created, we find that there has been a very sharp increase in imports into this country. They are increasing all the time. Profits are being squeezed by rising wages and costs and, of course, by the activities of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Interest rates are another problem which are causing industry great concern. There is no doubt that in the near future interest rates will certainly increase and finance will become very hard to obtain. Domestic and export demand have been slackening right across the country. This Government has made no real attack on inflation which is eating out the heart of our economy. Those are the reasons which have brought about the necessity for legislation of this kind. 
There has been a fall in profitability with a consequent fall in capacity to invest and capacity to employ people. There is to be a reduction in the rate of company tax. But a great deal more must be done if the manufacturing sector of industry in this country is to get back on its feet. 
All companies in all sectors have been told that they need to comply with the requirement that they pay their tax in quarterly instalments. This requirement is putting a very severe liquidity problem on many companies. The suggestion that deferment of quarterly tax payments is not now necessary because of the assistance to business liquidity from the proposed  Vh  per cent tax cut is totally wrong. It will not rescue companies on the brink of closure or assist others to maintain present production and employment. The urgent need of a great many companies is to have money in the bank right now so that wages and salaries and supplier accounts can be paid. 
The dramatic increase in working capital is now necessary in order for companies to do the same amount of business, because the rapid escalation of wages, salaries and other costs, the steady lengthening of debtor payments and the erosion of profits have left many companies in a situation in which it is a struggle simply to achieve a cash flow which will meet their liabilities. This will be intensified in the next 2 months when holiday pay and loadings are due. The problem is one of time and the time to help is right now. Many companies right across the land will find it extremely difficult to meet their wage commitments at this Christmas time. The money now going on quarterly tax payments for many was the main hope of remaining solvent. For many, it would have enabled them to maintain present production and employment levels which otherwise would have to be cut back. The proposed 2! per cent company tax reduction, while greatly welcomed, will do little or nothing towards overcoming the immediate liquidity problems. The official stance that deferment of quarterly tax payments can be applied for if a company has not the money likewise does nothing to assist the company which has the money but which needs that money to keep business going. 
In order to assist companies to maintain their operations and to curb the employment rundown the Australian Industries Development Corporation has recommended to the Government a return to the previous annual tax payments at least until the present crisis is over. This organisation urges strongly that an immediate announcement be made so that companies will know their position. Of course, the Government must do something about the damage being done to industry, as I mentioned earlier, because of its 25 per cent tariff cut across the board. That tariff cut has certainly failed to do what it was supposed to do. It was supposed to keep down prices. This has not happened. Prices are just as high as ever they were. All it has done has been to damage Australian industry and put many thousands of good Australians out of work. There must be more encouragement for export. There must be more encouragement for investment in industry and industry must be able to get finance on just terms. The Bill we are debating tonight is designed to assist industries by way of adjustment loan guarantees by the Government. As I have said earlier in this speech, there would have been no need for such legislation to be brought forward had sensible action been taken in the first place and not the irresponsible 25 per cent tariff cut which has thrown so many Australians out of work. 
The tragedy is that whatever the Government does there is really no sign that it intends to do anything more than the meagre amount which it has done already. The outlook for the immediate future is by no means encouraging. It is estimated by economic experts that in the first quarter of next year inflation will be running as high as 25 per cent in this country. There is no sign at the moment of increasing domestic demand. World demand will remain slack. Liquidity will remain a problem and interest rates are unlikely to fall. As a matter of fact, interest rates in the business sector could increase considerably in the future. The picture is a depressing one. 
I have tried to draw attention to these things to indicate that had our economy been properly managed in the first instance, assistance by the Government in the manufacturing field would not have been necessary. The Government now has to knuckle down to the job of trying to patch up as best it can the mess that it has created and carry manufacturing industry through the coming tough times with the least amount of economic and social fallout. Industry in this country is at the cross roads. A combination of circumstances has brought manufacturing industry virtually to the cross roads. The way straight ahead towards continuing growth of a viable manufacturing sector cannot at this point of time be said to be open. If present policies continue many sectors of industry will turn back or withdraw from domestic activity. There is already a strong turn to importing and to off-shore manufacturing. This means that many of our manufacturers, particularly those established close to the area that I represent, have closed down their industries. They have gone over to Asian countries to have their goods manufactured and have brought them back to Australia for sale here with the tragic loss of the employment in those areas. Companies taking these roads do so with the greatest reluctance. But they must take them for survival. In fact, most of such companies will be more profitable and the loss will accrue to the Australian people through growing unemployment and the closing of avenues for the application of higher skills. 
Owing to the Government 's policy in regard to tariffs, in my electorate- in the city of Maitlandthe great mills of Bradmill Industries Ltd at present are employing just over 600 people whereas 12 months ago they employed 1,300 people. As I say, this action has been brought about by the tariff reduction. Clothing factories in my electorate are on the verge of closing down for the same reason. We have clothing manufacturers in the nearby city of Newcastle having to do the same thing. Policy need is urgent. This situation makes the establishment of comprehensive positive central policies for manufacturing industries a matter of the greatest urgency. If the Australian economy were much larger, the economic climate-setting approach previously referred to could well be the appropriate policy for the Government. It could perhaps be left to market forces to determine whether an industry should survive or not, but the facts of life are that the greater part of Australian manufacturing industry needs protection against imports or some other form of assistance if it is to survive and have some assurance of continuity, just as is done in the most highly developed countries. Highly developed countries overseas that many of us have had the privilege of visiting have high protection for their manufacturing industries. This being so, there is a need for some process of selection so that the industry structure built up largely under protection will be the most worthwhile from the national point of view. The way to do this is to establish the facts and, applying them to some frame of reference, identify the industries that are most worth while. The way not to do it is to destroy industries, hoping but not knowing that something better will take thenplace. 
It can be said that the tariff policy adopted by the Tariff Board, now the Industries Assistance Commission, is an attempt to establish a basis for selectivity, but it is not acceptable because it is based on guesswork and it applies the second approach mentioned. It destroys the approach of hoping for the best. It now appears to have been adopted by the Government and, with the proposed addition of a structural adjustments board and a training scheme, both to operate in its wake, this has been referred to by the Government as its industry restructuring policy. Australia at present has no positive central government policies for manufacturing development. These assistances are all very right, but the Government has no across the board policies for manufacturing industries in this country. The need for them is urgent, and it is gratifying that at last a move towards establishing such policies has been taken by the creation of the committee within the LAC. It is imperative in the national interest that it completes its work with the utmost despatch.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this legislation will no doubt be of assistance to industry, but it would not have been necessary if the economy of this country had been properly managed in the first instance. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government's contribution to cancer research been reduced for 1974-75. 
If so, is this causing great concern to medical men conducting research. 
Does this dreaded disease claim 17 per cent of deaths taking place in Australia. 
If the position is as stated, will he immediately investigate this situation and make every effort to secure additional funds for the increased research so necessary in this field. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Is it a fact that considerable delays are still taking place in payments to retrenched employees in country industries adversely affected by tariff decisions of the Government? Is delay caused by lack of administration, with inadequate staff and office facilities? Are considerable delays taking place in accepting approved applicants under the National Employment and Training Scheme? Is this causing great financial problems to such applicants? Will the Minister take immediate steps to rectify these problems? 
I am surprised that the honourable member for Kingston should take a point of order on that aspect because every  speaker  who has taken part in this debate today- not only the supporters of the Government but also members of the Opposition- has mentioned Medibank. So I take it that I can do the same. 
I feel that there are 3 reasons why there should not be a change from the present system of hospital and medical care. The first reason is that there has been no public demand from the people of this country for a change in the present system, which, as I have said before, covers 90 per cent of the people. It is worth remembering that more than 50 million medical services are provided to the Australian public each year by doctors in private practice. I understand that the number of complaints is remarkably small. Even if the number were large the Hayden health scheme would not provide the remedy. In opinion polls which have been conducted the majority of the Australians interviewed have shown very clearly that they prefer the present system of voluntary health insurance to that provided for in the Bill which we are debating. There has been no public demand for the changes envisaged in the health system at present in Australia. 
The second reason is that we of the Opposition object to a monolithic National Health Commission being established. We believe that there is no advantage in such a proposition. The third reason, which is a very good one, is that patients value their right under the present system in Australia in most circumstances to choose the doctor they prefer. I will admit that the Hayden plan allows for a free choice outside the hospital area, but I will not accept the claim that the proposed scheme will work in this manner inside the hospital area. Under it doctors will be paid on a salary or sessional basis for work in standard wards and therefore will be available only when rostered for duty rather than when required by a particular patient. Added to that is the fact that most people will be able to alford only the standard ward accommodation provided under the scheme. The combination of those 2 factors will mean a loss of the right to choose a doctor in most circumstances. Certainly there are times at present when the right of choice is not freely available. I think honourable members readily appreciate that. In particular that occurs in times of emergency. I do not think that many patients would quibble about taking the best that is offering at the time in those circumstances. However, there is no reason why there should be an increase in the area in which there will not be a freedom of choice. There is no doubt that the introduction of a nationalised scheme, as envisaged by the Government, will lead to that state of affairs. 
What about the quality of the health care provided? That is a most important factor. I must make it quite clear that there can be no doubt that the quality of the health care provided is closely allied to the delivery and implementation of the health care services. An outstanding example at the present moment of a country in which the quality of the health care provided is being badly undermined by the introduction of a nationalised form of medicine is the United Kingdom. One has only to talk to people who come from that country to learn that they do not want to have anything to do with nationalised medicine. They are disappointed when they come to Australia and find that this Government plans to bring in nationalised medicine. In the United Kingdom there has been a steady deterioration in the delivery of health care in the hospitals, and there have been continuous problems in the area of primary care outside the hospitals as far as the general practitioner and private specialist areas are concerned. Today in Great Britain there is the sad situation in which hospitals are run down physically. Their consultants have virtually gone on strike and, according to the last reports, general practitioners were in the process of submitting to the British Medical Association their undated but signed resignations from the national health service. We do not want that situation to develop in Australia. 
If the remuneration of general practitioners is once again frozen on the grounds that all other workers in the health industry have received salary increases and that there is not enough money left in the global pool to give legitimate fee increases to the doctors in this present inflationary period, resignations from the doctors will be forthcoming. The quality of health care must suffer under such circumstances. The position in the United Kingdom is so serious that the resident doctors at the royal medical colleges recently joined with the British medical faculties in warning that there was a real danger of standards declining to the point where recovery would be impossible within the foreseeable future. In Australia the quality of health care would inevitably be depressed as the result of the closing of the system which occurs in nationalised medicine. I point to the long periods which elapse before chronic cases can be admitted to hospitals in the United Kingdom. This causes no end of problems. We do not wish this state of affairs to operate in Australia under any circumstances. 
I turn now to the Government's advertising program for Medibank. I, along with the people of Australia and other members of the Opposition have been amazed at the blatant advertising concerning Medibank which has been undertaken by the Minister for Social Security and the Government in all our national newspapers. It is being paid for by the Australian taxpayers. The Medibank advertisements are certainly not true. They are misleading and are likely to create chaos in Australian health services. The advertisements admit that hospital care can be available under the scheme only if the State governments agree. Yet the advertisements say that people will have to make no contributions and that there will be no books to keep. In most States, people who require hospital treatment after 1 July are likely to have huge bills to pay unless they maintain their existing membership of hospital benefit funds. In any case, the scheme purports to cover only public ward care. The great majority of Australians prefer intermediate or private ward accommodation, so additional private insurance would be needed to cover the extra cost of hospitalisation. No mention is made of this in the advertisements. 
The advertisements are likely to cause many people to abandon membership of voluntary health insurance funds before 1 July, and this could lead to a chaotic situation and cause great hardship. The advertisements state that Medibank will be a more efficient and simpler health insurance scheme. This claim can have no factual basis before the scheme starts. If the health insurance scheme is as efficient as the scheme under which the Department of Social Security is paying unemployment benefits, it will soon be christened 'Muddlybank'. The extra money that the Government will have to raise to pay for the health insurance scheme is equal to a 7 per cent or 8 per cent rise in income tax. In the present state of the economy, the nation just cannot afford this system. Based upon reliable figures produced by consultant actuaries, it is estimated that the full year national cost in 1975-76 of both the hospital and medical sides of the Hayden plan will be $ 1,680m. Taking into account the fact that present Commonwealth benefits would no longer be paid and that most health costs would no longer be tax deductible, this still would mean an increase of about $750m in Government expenditure. If this sum were met from personal income tax, a 7 per cent or 8 per cent increase in income tax would be required to raise the money. This health insurance scheme will cost the nation far more than the Government indicates it will cost in the figures that have already been cited by the Minister. 
I am interested only in securing the best scheme in the most economic way for the Australian people. I am interested not in a socialised scheme, or a nationalised scheme, but in a scheme that keeps free enterprise going in Australia. In the few minutes that are left to me, I should like to refer to the Opposition's policy in this field. We recognise that the States face grave financial difficulties in developing their hospital and health services, because of the unwillingness of the present Government to increase Commonwealth support in line with inflation. The present Opposition, if in government, would provide an immediate and large injection of funds into the State health systems. The Commonwealth Government today contributes only $5 a day towards the bed costs of pensioner medical service patients who are provided with free treatment in public wards. Originally the Commonwealth contribution represented a substantial proportion of the bed costs of pensioner patients. This is no longer the case. Hospital bed costs now range to above $50 a day. The States now bear the brunt of the burden of providing free hospital treatment for pensioners. This has placed an intolerable strain on scarce State resources, particularly in times of high inflation. 
The Opposition recognises the pressing need for more State resources to be made available for the development of hospital and health services. The Commonwealth Government has the constitutional power to provide medical and hospital services for pensioners, and with it the responsibility to make a significant contribution towards the hospital care of pensioners. This responsibility should be exercised without seeking to take over financial control and management of State hospitals. A Liberal-Country Party government would increase the proportion of the Commonwealth contribution towards the daily bed costs of pensioners from 10 per cent to 50 per cent. On present costs this would result in an increase of the Commonwealth contribution from $5 a day to at least $25 a day. When in government, we will also enter into urgent negotiations with the States and the voluntary health insurance funds on a number of other matters. These include improving the present inadequately subsidised health benefits scheme for low income people; extending medical benefits to cover hospital outpatients; increasing the $2 a day bed subsidy for insured patients which has been unaltered since 1963; extending hospital and medical benefits to include all psychiatric patients; and improving ambulance cost sharing arrangements. We are conscious that special arrangements will have to be made with individual States where particular circumstances exist, such as Queensland, so that no one is disadvantaged financially. All of the measures which we would introduce would be part of the continuing reform of the health insurance system, which will ensure comprehensive coverage of the entire community while maintaining freedom of choice and a private system, not a socialised, nationalised scheme which financially is airy-fairy and could cost this country millions of dollars more than the present Government has estimated. 

 Dr GUN (Kingston). (3.36)- I want to introduce a novel turn into this debate. I want to talk about the Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I point out to the honourable member for Kingston that if he had read the second reading speech made by the Minister for Social Security he would know that the Minister said: 
The Bill before the House is designed to provide for an orderly transition from the present health insurance scheme to Medibank. 
Therefore, I think that my ruling in disallowing the point of order taken by the honourable member for Kingston in the course of the speech made by the honourable member for Paterson was correct. I suggest that the subject of Medibank is within the ambit of the Bill. 
I ask the Minister for Northern Development: When does the Government intend to assist effectively cattle producers in Australia to overcome the greatest financial crisis this industry has ever experienced? Is at least $150m required at low interest rates to save this situation? Does the Minister know that the interest rate of 1  Vi  per cent on the $20m made available through the Commonwealth Development Bank is too high under the present pressed conditions and that producers do not even make applications because it is impossible to service such loans? Will the Minister immediately take action to provide fair and adequate assistance to cattle producers in this country? 
I want to bring to the notice of the House tonight the plight of an industry with which we people living in the country areas are vitally concerned. It is the aviation industry which operates in the distribution of superphosphate on our agricultural lands. This matter was brought to my attention at the end of last week by a firm in my electorate, Pays Air Services Pty Ltd, which operates at Scone. For some 26 years it has employed a number of pilots. They now have been notified by the principal of the firm that their employment will be terminated on and from 14 March. This profession is in a very critical state. In New South Wales 41 pilots have been dismissed so far by employers whose businesses have almost ceased to exist as a result of the collapse of the beef industry, the Federal Government's decision regarding the superphosphate subsidy, a general lack of confidence and the uncertain future for the man on the land. I suppose that if we could count the number of pilots throughout Australia who will lose their jobs in this industry for the reasons that I have given we would find that it would run into many hundreds. 
This profession requires immense training, experience and skill not only for the pilots but also for the allied personnel involved in the industry. Apart from the pilots, the people involved in the industry are the carriers who cart ther superphosphate from the railheads to the various properties and the mechanical loader operators who load the superphosphate into the planes. Many thousands of people who are involved in this industry throughout Australia will be thrown out of work. The industry cannot stand the loss that no doubt it will suffer as a result of the present financial and economic circumstances over which the pilots and their employers have no control. Most of these pilots would have to rely on social service assistance while they seek alternative employment or retrain for some other profession. The financial loss to the pilots will be considerable, not to mention the costs that will be involved in regaining personnel to replace those who have been forced into other fields when the industry recovers from its present disastrous position. 
These pilots are very skilful The spreading of superphosphate in mountainous country is a very skilful operation. The pilots in this industry have tremendous experience, and that is essential. Apparently the present Government has stated that it would cost too much to retrain the pilots displaced in other areas ofthe air industry. There is no doubt that the talents of these experienced pilots would be wasted if they were retrained to be truck drivers, clerks, storemen, etc., as has been suggested. Surely this Government will not allow these skilled pilots, their families and other members of their specialised industry to add to the existing unemployment figures. Surely it will make an effort to salvage this industry before it disintegrates and is beyond assistance and recovery. I commend the position of this important industry to the Government for investigation, with a view to assistance being given to preserve the great expertise and knowhow which has been developed over many years and which is in danger of being lost. It will be a national loss if this takes place. Once again I ask the Government and the Ministers concerned to look at this question because if the industry folds it will be very difficult to re-establish it, and this will mean a great loss to the primary industries and to the export income of Australia. 
-The Australian beef export industry is facing possibly its biggest crisis period in its history. The complete failure of the Federal Government either to understand or to act on the Australian beef crisis is damaging the economy of this nation. It is damaging not only the Australian economy but also our country towns and rural areas which depend on beef production for their survival. We on this side of the House have been urging in this Parliament for action, not talk, from the Government on the beef crisis. This Government has helped other industries, but not the cattle industry which, in past years, has been one of our great export earning industries bringing more than $652m into Australia in 1973. 
It is true that the Government has made available through the Development Bank a mere $20m which is to be provided at commercial rates of interest to primary producers in the cattle industry who are in trouble. The interest rate on this money is 1 1  Vi  per cent. Applications for this loan money have been disappointing. Cattle producers in their present financial plight cannot possibly service such a high rate of interest as 11 per cent. What is required is $100m to be made available by the Reserve Bank to the cattle industry with a holiday period from the repayment of capital and interest of 2 years so that Australian cattle producers can get on their feet and make a contribution to the export income and the economy of Australia. 
This . Government must alert its trade representatives throughout the world to make every effort to improve the sales of Australian beef overseas. It must increase finance to the meat canning industry and use every effort to reenter the American market, the Japanese market and the European Economic Community. It is true that small sales of Australian beef have been made to America and to Japan and that 40 000 tonnes of meat has been sold to the Russian market. But compared with the great quantity of beef in Australia at the moment- there are some 34 million beef cattle on the land- these sales are only small. Cattle producers were encouraged to increase beef breeding because of the valuable export markets. Now there are 34 million beef cattle in this country. The value of this great enterprise must not be allowed to perish through lack of Government understanding. This Government can make hundreds of millions of dollars available to other industries and other enterprises in this country. But it has neglected the beef cattle industry. In the long run it will be to the benefit, nationally and economically, of Australia for the Government to do all that it can to help viable cattle producers get on their feet and on with the job of producing export beef. So, I urge and request the Government to take some notice of these appeals which we on this side of the House are making. 
I have been most concerned also by the fact that canned beef is being imported to Australia. I have made statements to this effect which have been publicised throughout our rural areas. At a time when we are finding it difficult to export our beef, canned beef products should not be allowed into Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! It is now 1 o'clock. In accordance with the Standing Orders, the debate is interrupted, and I put the question: "That grievances be noted '. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Those members of the House of Representatives who are interested in local government must have been pleased this week to receive the Press release by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  to the effect that a special investigation is to be made into the problems of local government in Australia. This move has been supported by the Minister for Local Government in New South Wales,  Sir Charles  Cutler. Over the years many inquiries into the financing of local government have been held. They have been held by the various State governments and indeed there have been royal commissions into the financing of local government, but up to date there has been no real change in the method of financing local government. Rates are still fixed on the unimproved capital value of land and even the last royal commission which was presided over by  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell did not really come up with anything new in this field. 
The costs of local government today are extremely high. The wages of the administrative staff of councils, the materials which are used and transport costs have made it very difficult indeed for local government to carry on without imposing very high rates on the owners of land. Today, right throughout Australia ratepayers in shire and municipal council areas are screaming about the high rates that they have to pay in order to keep their local governing body in action. I know that the Federal Government has entered this field. Local government has been the preserve of the State governments but the present Federal Government has entered into this field and has made certain grants to local government authorities. The State governments make grants. There is a State government Grants Commission and there is a Federal Government Grants Commission. The Federal Government through the Department of Urban and Regional 
Development is also making grants and through the regional councils, but even though assistance of this nature is being given to local government it still has not been able to reduce the rate structure. As a matter of fact, it is making it very difficult for shire clerks and town clerks to work out their financial agenda and their financial statements because they never know when these grants are going to be made. The only way in which they can prepare proper estimates is by knowing the amount of finance that will be made available at a given time. So they experience extreme difficulty in budgeting, even when these grants are made to them by the State and Federal governments. I point out also that the grants that are made by the Federal Government are not allowed as a deduction for rates. It is made very clear to local government that when a Federal Government grant is made under the Grants Commission it is made on the condition that it is not applied against rates. So there is no assistance in this respect in the alleviation of the rates burden. 
The Federal Government takes millions of dollars out of the local government areas of Australia. I feel, together with my colleagues and other local government supporters, that the only way in which local government will receive any alleviation of the high rate structure is to receive a share of the taxation revenue of this country. That has to be made available to local government if it is to overcome the problem. I do not think that this money should be made available direct by the Australian Government. I think that it should be channelled through the departments of local government in the States. The various departments of local government in the States know best the needs and requirements of the various shires and municipalities under their control. They are the ones that should make the allocations from the grants made by the Federal Government. That would also permit the distribution of these funds to local government to be made in an economic manner because there would be no need for the Federal Government to have a tremendous staff working out what moneys should be made available to local government. As I have indicated, that could be done through the States. They know the requirements of the shires and municipal councils and they are the best ones to make the funds available. I feel strongly that the only way in which to assist to alleviate the abnormal rates that are being charged by local government to ratepayers is for the Federal Government to make money available to local government. 
People thrughout Australia are finding it extremely difficult to meet their shire and municipal rate bill and local government throughout the Commonwealth is experiencing great financial problems. That is why I have submitted this suggestion to the Government for consideration. I think that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development is doing a splendid job. I think that he has the interests of local government at heart but I do feel that this is the only way in which to overcome this problem. I hope that some action will be taken along the lines I have mentioned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer and Deputy Prime Minister. Have only sketchy reports been made of the Minister's recent visit to Arab countries? Was he successful in obtaining firm orders for Australian beef, wheat and other commodities? Was he able to attract petro dollars for investment in Australia to help develop our resources? Can the Minister give definite and specific details to this House and to the people of Australia of any success achieved? 
-This afternoon we have listened in this House to some extremely interesting speeches on the Appropriation Bills. We heard a very fine speech from the honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  the former Leader of the Opposition and a former Treasurer of this country. He made a very valuable contribution to the debate. Because he was a successful Treasurer, it is to be hoped that some notice will be taken of the remarks which he made. No doubt they will be given prominence in the Press. Let us hope that responsible citizens in this country will read them with interest and give full support to what he said. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  made great play of the fact that the people who sit on the Opposition side are very rich people- wool barons, oil barons, wealthy pastoralists and the privileged. What has that to do with Australia's financial situation? Many honourable members who sit on the Government side of the House are not short of a dollar. Indeed, if some of them were investigated, it would be found that some are very wealthy people. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration, for whom I have high regard, mentioned employment and what the Government was doing for the unemployed. Who is responsible for the 300 000 unemployed in Australia at the present time? None other than the present Government. The Minister eulogised the schemes which he, as Minister, has introduced to assist people who are unemployed- the Regional Employment Development scheme and the National Employment and Training scheme. He referred to supplementary assistance for those unfortunate people who have lost their jobs in the various industries which have been seriously affected by the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut. I applaud the Minister for introducing these schemes, but let us never forget that these schemes would be unnecessary if the economy of this country had been handled in a proper manner. 
I cite a case in my own electorate of Paterson. This time last year a textile industry- Bradmillemployed 1300 people; it now employs under 600 people. What a terrible thing to happen to a fine industry which has been developed over many decades. Knowhow and expertise have been lost and men have lost their jobs because this Government took away the tariff protection. I, together with other citizens, were prepared to pay for the product which the industry produced and the people employed in the industry were paid on a good Australian wage basis. They were happy and the employers were happy, but the industry suffered because cheap textiles were being brought in from Asian countries. I will not name those countries but honourable members know the ones I mean. In some instances the labour employed was being paid at a rate of $12 per month. I cannot understand an Australian Labor Government stooping to actions such as this. It is evident that it did not do its homework because its actions have created chaos throughout Australia and created unprecedented unemployment. When we were in Government, I heard the present Minister for Labor and Immigration enlarging upon the unemployment figures. If unemployment was running at 80 000, in his estimate it was running at 140 000. Fancy him here today trying to put the blame on us for unemployment in this country. We were a responsible Government and we aimed for full employment. Until the last few days of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, full employment was the order of the day. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said in his contribution to this debate that if the Opposition became the government of Australia it would cut down benefits for nursing homes and child care, and would cut pensions for age and invalid pensioners. What a lot of rubbish when the honourable member for 
Port Adelaide talks in this way. He also said that if we became the government, we would cut down expenditure on education. He said we would cut down on the assistance being given to high schools and primary schools throughout the land. I abhor this. Education, in the main, is the responsibility of the Australian States under the Constitution. What the Federal Government should be doing is channel out funds to the various States of Australia so that they can take a more major part in assisting education in various fields. In the social welfare sphere, the present Government has carried on many of the policies which were instituted by us when we were in government. In the social welfare field, we raised the pension right across the board when it was necessary. There is no doubt about that. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide has talked about this Government allocating $3 50m to boost the wool trade.  Mr Acting Deputy Speaker,  you are a country man so there is no need for me to tell you just what the wool industry has meant to Australia. When we were in government we also bolstered up the wool industry. We purchased 990 000 bales of wool. At one stage it looked as though we had problems but members of the Australian Country Party, supported by their Liberal Party colleagues, had faith in the wool industry. We were able to dispose of that wool at a profit and thus protect our great wool industry which is so valuable not only to our own economy but also from an export point of view. Those are just some remarks about previous speeches that have been made in this debate. 
I have some interesting phototstat copies of articles which have appeared in the Press. On 29 January, the 'Age', which is a reputable newspaper in Victoria, published the following article: 
Clamp on Canberra spending 
The Federal Government last night announced a tough clampdown on further increases in its spending. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said the Government had decided there would be 'a general presumption against' rises in spending. 
In future, all proposals will have to meet strict criteria adopted by Cabinet at its meeting yesterday. 
That article was published on 29 January, but we have found that within 2 months, instead of the Prime Minister clamping down on spending, we are now debating these Appropriation Bills. It is very interesting to see that announcement in the light of what is happening and what we are debating today. An article in the 'Bulletin' of 1 March states: 
A Treasury Paper, presented to Cabinet urging the government to watch its future spending, has warned that government spending for this financial year could be up 42 per cent over last year and that there could be a Budget deficit of more than $2, 500m- a figure Prime Minister Whitlam has already indicated he expects. 
Another newspaper article states: 
Budget deficit: Now is the time for the Government to cut back. 
This is not creating confidence in the Australian business world, and indeed among the ordinary people of this country. The running of a government is like running a business or a private home. If a housewife has a deficit in her house-keeping money and her husband comes home and learns this, there is a row because he knows that that deficit has to be made up somewhere. That is what will happen in Australia. The huge deficit with which we are faced- over $3,000m- has to be made up in the long term. It is all right now in the short term, but in the long term somebody is going to pay for it; somebody is going to be jollywell hurt, and it could be the little people of this country, the poor people, the people whom the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  purports to represent. They are the ones who could be affected seriously if anything goes amiss with our economy. It is running along all right now but let us issue a warning: There is to be a day of reckoning and, my word, we will have problems when that happens. An article castigating the Government for the deficit that exists 9 months after the presentation of its last Budget on 1 7 September last year appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review' on 14 April 1975. The final paragraph of that article read as follows: 

 Dr Cairns refuses to accept the simple logic of inflation and the contribution to it of the government's spending cannot be justified by his assertions of disbelief in orthodox economics. To begin with,  Dr Cairns  is no economist - 
I think he has shown us that- and never has been. Secondly, he has neither the qualities nor the justification of an E. G. Theodore. For, despite the diversity of opinions and policy recommendations among economists and civil servants, all economists of all persuasions, at every point of the political spectrum, agree that a continuation of the present rate of public spending financed not by taxation but by an effective use of the printing press can only be disastrously high inflation and, the corollary, eventually a disastrously high rate of unemployment. 
This is not an article which would engender confidence in the people of this nation. Appropriation Bill No. 5 provides for an expenditure of $344.3m. On examining the figures in the appropriation it is seen that $ 10.1m is shown in respect of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and $2 5m in respect of the Darwin cyclone. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said that members of the Opposition were not interested in assisting the people affected by the Darwin cyclone. What rubbish and what nonsense. The then Leader of the Opposition, who spoke in this debate this afternoon, was one of the first men to go to Darwin with the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Treasurer '  (Dr Cairns).  Indeed, they were the first 2 responsible people from Canberra to arrive in Darwin. He made an assessment, along with the Treasurer, of the situation. A Liberal-Country Party Government certainly would have assisted the people of Darwin in their sad and sorry plight and to re-establish themselves, so it is utter nonsense for the honourable member to talk in that way. 
Appropriation Bill No. 5 attributes an amount of $22. 4m to the purchase of ships, materials and equipment and $70m to special assistance to facilitate transfer of the function of defence to Papua New Guinea. In Appropriation Bill No. 6 the figure in respect of defence service homes is $15m and PMG cost increases $127m. This amazes us on this side of the House, particularly those of us from the country, who are faced with huge increases right across the board in telephone rentals, and in our little post office box fees. The cost of a post office box has increased to $ 12 whereas it used to be $2. People in the country areas of my electorate of Paterson have informed me this week that their mailbag fee has now gone up to $16. It has gone from $1.10 12 years ago to $16 now. Goodness gracious me, what is happening in our Postmaster-General's Department? No doubt a lot of country people will be denied a private mailbag because they have to cut down on expenses, and $ 16 for the collection and delivery of a country mailbag is absolutely absurd. Returning to Appropriation Bill No. 6, an amount of $26.4m is shown for payment to South Australia for the acquisition of nonmetropolitan railways and $13m for National Capital Development Commission capital works and services. Those are the major appropriation in those 2 Bills. 
On looking at the current state of the Australian Government's Budget, it is found that after 9 months the deficit is of the order of $3,30 lm. The original estimates for the 1974-75 Budget on 17 September 1974 were for an overall deficit of $570m. On domestic transaction a surplus of $23m was expected. However, subsequently large new expenditure appropriations and cuts in tax rates have necessitated a revision of the Budget estimates. The original Budget which was brought down by the Government has been completely changed. It has been stop and go. The Government brought in a lot of measures which it found were unpopular and were affecting people, so it did away with them and reintroduced the system that we had when in government. This has happened in quite a lot of instances and, of course, it has thrown the Budget out. The Government has chosen to finance its spending increase of 45 per cent only partially by increases in taxation and other current receipts, budgeted at 23 per cent. The latter increase is probably roughly in line with inflation in private incomes, so the proportion of incomes taken in taxation will remain about the same as in 1973-74. In the past, Australian Governments have usually financed their Budget deficits fully by borrowing the money within Australia. However, in 1974-75 the Government has financed its deficit so far- remember that at 31 March the deficit was over $3,000m- mainly by short term borrowings, $ 1,681m of which has been in Treasury notes. It has also financed its deficit by running down its cash balances by $1 ,394m, which amounts to the printing of banknotes, which has been mentioned by the honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  and by other speakers from this side of the House in this debate. 
I have blown them all out. Perhaps later in the year the Government will attempt to finance its deficit properly by raising a long term loan. However, it may have difficulty in attracting enough private funds for the loan without raising interest rates, which would run against its current stance of trying to allow an easier flow of money to private industry. My word, private industry is not very confident of this present Government and it will be delighted, when we go to the polls next time, to see the Liberal and Country Parties back in government and giving this country the services and requirements that the nation needs. 
Government spending financed by cash balances or borrowing from the banking system means a net increase in the money supply. The Government spends more money without reducing anyone else's holdings of money, which breeds inflation. No attempt has been made by this Government to arrest inflation- no attempt at all. Indeed, the Treasurer has been requested by bis Cabinet colleagues- two or three of them, it was announced in the Press recently and in speeches in this House- to cut down on expenditure. But what has been done? He thinks that money does not matter; that it grows on trees. So it goes on, with the rate of inflation increasing and with the rate of unemployment increasing. Unfortunately, unless some confidence is restored, we will see more unemployment in Australiaand God forbid! We on this side of the House want to see good Australians in good employment. If the banks buy government bonds in exchange for cash they need not reduce their lending to the private sector because the bonds count as part of their liquid reserves, just as cash does. 
I will not have time to run through the economic problems that stem from the large Budget deficit. It is a pity, but never mind. The expenditure increase in the 1974-75 Budget and the prospective deficit are of unprecedented size. Never in the history of government in this nation have we seen a deficit as large as it is now, despite taking inflation into consideration. It is inevitably causing considerable problems and changes for the Australian economy. The most obvious consequences are an inflationary increase in the money supply and dislocation in private industry. We on the Opposition side of the House stand for private industry. Those on the Government side are text book academic socialists, and the sooner we get them out of government and get ourselves into government the better. 
-The House has agreed to deal with this legislation in a cognate debate which will cover the Pig Slaughter Levy Bill, the Pig Slaughter Levy Collection Bill, the Pig Industry Research Bill and the Pig Meat Promotion Bill. We have just heard from the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party and honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  a most interesting speech on this industry and on the effects that the Bills will have on the industry and on pig producers of this country. 
As he has said, it is true that at the present time the pig industry is one of our most viable rural industries. Therefore, we support any legislation which will improve and increase this industry. It is true, too, as has been pointed out by the honourable member, that under this legislation the farmers are contributing this levy and the Government is spending the farmers' money. 
It is interesting to note the latest figures regarding the pig industry which I have been able to obtain. They refer to the 1972-73 financial year. We find that the total levy collected in 1972-73 amounted to $227,000. It is also interesting to note how this money was disbursed. It was disbursed by making payments to the various States. They received $100,000 for investigation into the pig industry and the various facets of it. Universities throughout Australia which carry out research in the industry received $78,000. An amount of $2,000 was provided for studentships for research into the industry and miscellaneous expenditure totalled $1,000. The Government paid half the promotion figure and half the levy. It is also interesting to note the priorities under which these funds were allocated. They were: Carcass grading, genetic improvement, marketing, disease investigation, nutrition and the disposal of effluent. 
I propose to look at the previous Acts to see what they provided and what changes are made in the legislation which we are debating this evening. The Pig Industry Research Committee was set up in 1971 under the Pig Industry Research Act to carry out scientific, technical or economic research into the pig industry. The Committee includes representatives from the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation, the Australian Agricultural Council and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, and also a representative from a university and from the department. The functions of the Committee are to make recommendations to the Minister on the spending of moneys standing to the credit of the Pig Industry Research Trust Account out of which payments for research are made, and also on the rate of levy payable by pig owners on the slaughter of pigs at abattoirs. The expenses of the Committee are paid for out of the Trust Account. 
The Pig Slaughter Levy Act of 1971 provides for the payment by the owners of pigs slaughtered in abattoirs for human consumption of a levy of up to 1 0c a pig. The rate of levy is fixed by regulations after recommendations by the Research Committee and may not exceed the rate recommended, although it may be lower than that rate. The current rate, which was fixed by the previous administration, is 5c a pig. The Pig Slaughter Levy Collection Act of 1971 provides for the payment of levy to abattoir owners by pig owners. The abattoir owner may refuse to slaughter pigs unless the levy is paid. Payments to abattoir owners discharges the liability of the pig owner to Australia. Penalties are provided for non-payment of the levy by a specified time. All payments of the levy and penalties are payable into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. They are then paid into the Research Trust Account. In addition, an amount equal to one-half of the expenditure from the Trust Account is payable into the Research Trust Account for research and for the expenses of the Committee, provided that this is not greater than the amount paid as levy by the pig owners. The cost of research and of running the Committee is thus borne equally by the Australian Government and the pig industry. I cited that figure earlier. 
Turning to the Pig Meat Promotion Bill 1975, the new legislation is needed to set up a pig meat promotion advisory committee. The committee is to consist of 2 representatives of the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation, a departmental representative and one person chosen for his marketing experience. All members are to be appointed by the Minister for a 3-year term. They will then be eligible for re-appointment. The Federation is to nominate to the Minister the representatives of its body to be appointed. The  chairman  of the committee, as pointed out by the honourable member for New England, will be the departmental representative. Each member will be able to nominate a  deputy  who may attend meetings in his place. The  chairman  will preside at meetings. The majority vote will prevail. The  chairman  will have a deliberate vote and, if necessary, a casting vote. 
The functions of the Committee are to make recommendations to the Minister about the expenditure of funds for promotion and the amount of levy to be levied on pig owners to be spent on promotional purposes. This is the most important function. It is most important that these members should have a great knowledge of the industry. There is to be a pig meat promotion trust account, moneys from which are to be expended on promotion and on the expenses of running that promotion committee. The financing of the new trust account will be from moneys paid by pig producers as a new component in the levy under the Pig Slaughter Levy Act. No additional funds are to be provided by the Australian Government. This is a great pity. Under this new legislation the funds are to be provided entirely by the pig producers. The increased levy will be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund and the proportion relevant to promotion will be paid into the promotion trust account. The money to be spent on promotion must be expended with the approval of the Minister. A similar requirement exists under the Pig Industry Research Act 1971 in relation to moneys spent for the purposes of research. 
Agreements may be entered into by Australia with the approval of the Minister or of an authorised public servant for the carrying out of promotion. A similar provision in the Pig Industry Research Act of 1971 provides for agreements for the carrying out of research. In the Pig Industry Research Act of 1971 the definition of 'research' is not wide enough to cover most aspects of promotion, but it does include the study and dissemination of information on markets or potential markets for pig meat. This is now covered by the definition of 'promotion' in the Bill. No amendment has been made to the Pig Industry Research Act of 1971 to limit the definition of research to exclude any aspect more suitably treated as promotion. As no moneys may be expended out of either account without the permission of the Minister, it would seem that no duplication of effort is likely to arise. 
Clause 14 of the Pig Meat Promotion Bill provides that remuneration of a member is to be covered by a determination of the Remuneration Tribunal under the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-74. Clause 14 is to have effect subject to that Act. Until a determination is in force remuneration is to be as prescribed. Clause 14(3) provides that this provision shall operate subject to the provisions of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1974 thus covering possible disallowance of a determination by either House of the Parliament and ensuring that the existing rate of remuneration would continue in such an event. This may appear to be inconsistent with clause 6 (2) of the Bill which provides that, in relation to remuneration for a member, clause 6(1), which deals with the payment of moneys out of the Promotion Trust Account, shall operate notwithstanding the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1974. Clause 6(2) is needed because the Consolidated Revenue Fund is appropriated by clause 5 of the Bill to enable the proportion of the levy relating to promotion to be paid into the Promotion Trust Account. 
It would appear that without clause 6 (2) the section in the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1974 which provides that salaries determined by the Tribunal are paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which is appropriated accordingly, would also operate and there would be a double appropriation for remuneration of members. The other provisions of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1974 do, however, apply as I have mentioned. 
The 3 other Bills are required mainly because of consequential amendments involving the setting up of the Promotion Advisory Committee and the Promotion Trust Account. The Pig Slaughter Levy Bill 1975 amends the Pig Slaughter Levy Act 1971. The main amendment is to section 4 which fixes the rate of levy. Up to 1 July 1 975 the old rate of 5c per pig is to continue. Thereafter the levy is to consist of 2 components. The first provides for up to 10c per pig for research purposes as recommended by the Research Committee and fixed by regulation. The Minister in his second reading speech on the Bill said that the operative rate of 5c per pig will continue from 1 July 1975. The second component provides for up to 5c per pig for promotion purposes as recommended by the Promotion Committee and fixed by regulation. As with the research component the Committee's recommendation may not be exceeded although a lower rate may be prescribed. The Minister in his second reading speech claimed that the operative rate fixed will be 5c per pig. As the Committee has not yet been established it is impossible for any recommendation from the Committee to have been made fixing the promotion component of the levy at 5c, the maximum rate. Until a recommendation has been made no statements about the operative rate can be made with certainty. The Bill also amends the definition section of the Act to provide for the fact that there are now 2 relevant committees, and makes a drafting amendment to section 8. 
In the Pig Slaughter Levy Collection Bill 1975 all the amendments are of a drafting nature to deal with the change of name of the relevant Department and the change from the expression 'the Commonwealth' to 'Australia'. I turn to the Pig Industry Research Bill 1975. The main amendment to the Pig Industry Research Act 1971 is to section 5 which provides for payments out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund into the Research Trust Account. Hitherto an amount equal to all payments of levy was paid into that account. Now, only the proportion of the levy paid for research is paid into that account, the remainder being paid into the Promotion Trust Account. This is to commence when the new arrangements come into operation in 1 July 1975. Section 1 4 of the Act is re-enacted to provide that remuneration of members is to continue at the existing rate but will be covered by a determination of the Remuneration Tribunal when it is made. Similar provisions in the Pig Meat Promotion Bill ensure that appropriations of these amounts are made under the Pig Industry Research Act, but in other respects the remuneration provisions are subject to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1 973- 1 974. 
The other amendments are of a drafting nature only. 
The Opposition supports the Bills but, as mentioned before, we are concerned that the Government is not making any additional contribution under this legislation. All funds will come from the pig producers and I have no doubt that the pig producers in this country will be disappointed. They are in a viable industry which is making a valuable contribution to meat production in this country and to our export markets. They know and we know that it is essential that research be carried out in this industry in the fields I mentioned previously in my speech and particularly in regard to disease. Pigs are subject to contamination with various diseases and it is extremely important that we should not have any exotic diseases come into our country from overseas. So it is essential that adequate funds be made available for carrying out extensive research at all levels in the industry. 
In my electorate of Paterson there are many piggeries and several of them have 3500 to 4000 breeding sows. They are providing meat for export and for the home market. The pig industry in the north and north-west of New South Wales fluctuates not only in respect of prices obtained for the end product but also by reason of the extent of the wheat harvest. We find that in the north and north-west if we have a bumper wheat harvest many wheat growers prefer to put a fair amount of their grain into the production of pig meat. 
While the Opposition supports the Bills it is dissappointed that no contribution is being made to this levy by the Government. We feel that it is such an important industry and that it is so important to carry out research into the various fields I have mentioned that the Government should make some contribution. 
-Various Parliaments throughout Australia in both the State and Federal spheres have done their best over the years to protect the right of people to vote at elections. However, it is felt that the proposal by this Government to eliminate country polling booths which have not averaged over 50 votes per booth for the past 3 years, is a very serious matter for country people throughout Australia because if this proposal is implemented, and I have no doubt that it will be, many people will be disfranchised. I know that many honourable members in this House who represent country electorates have received notification of the elimination of certain polling booths in their areas. The previous regulation provided for an average of 30 voters over a period of 3 years to constitute an area where a polling booth would be established. The great problem is that many voters in inaccessible areas in the country where the polling booths are to be eliminated could be disfranchised. 
In my electorate of Paterson it is proposed to eliminate 19 polling booths. Of those 19 polling booths, 15 of them at the last Federal election showed an increase in voters which brought the number to over 50. First on the list is Dalwood at which 51 people voted at the last election. Dalwood is a vineyard area which is growing. It is in a river situation and could be subject to flooding. At the last election 5 1 voters attended that booth, an increase of 10 per cent over previous years. Howes Valley had 43 voters at the last election. Those who know the geography of New South Wales know that Howes Valley is in a very isolated area between Windsor and Singleton, 45 miles from Singleton and 36 miles from the nearest polling booth at Milbrudale. It is dreadful that the elimination of a polling booth at Howes Valley is contemplated. At Laguna 54 people voted at the last Federal election. This polling booth should not be eliminated. At Killoe in the Merriwa area there were 55 votes cast at the last elections. In this area there is a creek called Bow Creek, and if there is a storm there is no possibility of the votes getting from the Killoe area into the neighbouring town of Merriwa. Rouchel Brook in the Muswellbrook area had 38 voters at the last election. It is situated in a mountainous area which is surrounded by high streams and it needs only a cloud burst or something like that to disfranchise the people in that area. Castle Rock near Muswellbrook had 42 voters, and McCullys Gap and Muscle Creek each had 40 voters. In the Paterson sub-division, Stanhope, situated right on the Hunter River, had 37 voters. If the Hunter River floods, the people are cut off so they too could be disfranchised. In the Scone sub-division, the Thomthwaite polling booth had 49 voters and it needs only a similar happening in that area for the people to be disfranchised. At Carrowbrook in the Singleton sub-division there were 33 voters. To eliminate Carrowbrook could mean that 33 good Australian citizens who would have to travel to town over 19 river crossings were disfranchised. 
I have already covered that. That is a problem with these mountainous areas. The polling booth at Glennies Creek in the Singleton sub-division had 43 voters and this area is in a similar situation. Maison Dieu and Mitchells Flat have similar problems. Some 743 voters are involved and I feel that the Government's proposal is an attempt to disfranchise National Country Party voters throughout our nation. As a member of the National Country Party of Australia I, along with my colleagues, protest strongly about this action. I heard this afternoon that the Birdsville polling booth, right in the heart of Australia where the real Aus.tralians live, right in the outback, is to be eliminated. That is a shocking indictment of the people who are supposed to be looking after the voting system of this country. 
I am not worried about Sydney. The people there can look after themselves. 
I am concerned about the problems which country people have to face in order to exercise their franchise which has been so valued by them over the years and means so much to them. I am asking that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who administers the voting procedure in the Australian political sphere, treat this matter sympathetically because people in country areas Uke to cast their vote in the same way as do those in the city and they should not be prevented from voting by the elimination of polling booths such as those I have mentioned here. My colleagues in the National Country Party are experiencing exactly the same treatment in their electorates. I ask the Minister to be sympathetic towards our objections which we will make to the various divisional returning officers. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I rise in this debate to oppose the legislation. I am surprised that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who was born and reared at Currabubula in the country- although as a young man he left that country district and went into the 3 square miles of Grayndler alluvial gold- now wants to eliminate from this House members of the National Country Party of Australia. This Electoral Re-distribution (New South Wales) Bill is a gerrymander. Under it the seat of Riverina disappears and the seat of Hume is heavily loaded against the National Country Party. The Paterson electorate also is seriously affected by the proposed redistribution. Honourable members can see that the Government's proposal seeks retribution for the loss of the seat of Riverina at the last elections and not a redistribution. 
Section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act states clearly that community of interest and means of communication should be taken into account when there is a redistribution. In the redistribution of New South Wales these 2 important provisions have been completely neglected by the Distribution Commissioners who have made the redistribution on a population basis only. Since 1968 the number of elec: tors in my electorate of Paterson has increased by 10 000 and that number is increasing at the rate of 200 a month. The electorate as it now stands meets the requirements of the Government's Electoral Re-distribution Bill which provides for a 10 per cent variation of the quota either way. There are 62 763 voters in the proposed electorate and, given the 10 per cent variation either way, the present Paterson electorate meets the requirements of the redistribution. As long as the electorate of Paterson had over 57 000 electors it would have complied with the present electoral arrangements, which allow for a 10 per cent tolerance either way. 
My submission in this instance is that to place the city of Cessnock and Bellbird in my electorate, as is proposed in the redistribution, is not to take into consideration the community of interest and lack of communication provisions of the legislation. Country people are disadvantaged electorally. It is absolutely impossible to understand why the city of Maitland, for instance, has been split in two. It is a city that has been in the electorate of Paterson since its formation. To cut a city like that in half is certainly to make it extremely difficult because there is a community of interest between the people of East Maitland and Maitland itself. The inclusion of the subdivisions of Gunnedah and Coonabarabran in the north-western section of New South Wales with the Hunter Valley indicates that there has been a complete failure to take into account the lack of communication and community of interest provisions. 
This redistribution is a gerrymander as far as the Country Party is concerned. There is no doubt that it will certainly disadvantage members of the Country Party. It would appear that it is the desire of the Government to increase the population on the seaboard of this country. At present 75 per cent of the population of Australia is situated in the seaboard cities of Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth. This redistribution certainly will increase the movement of the population towards the seaboard. Only one consideration has been taken into account in this redistribution, that is, the desire to ensure that the population on the seaboard is increased and that industrial or Labor oriented areas are included in rural or country districts. I make no apologies to anyone for making that statement. The Distribution Commissioners in New South Wales were asked to divide the State into 45 electorates with an average population of 62 765 electors each. They have given me more than that number in my electorate of Paterson. I have been given a 0.93 per cent increase. Yet, as I stated earlier in my speech, with a 10 per cent tolerance an electorate of 57 000-odd voters would comply with the Bill. 
I am not worried. I have no worries politically. I have none whatsoever. I will stand up and fight and I will win. But the proposition put forward by the Distribution Commissioners through the Government is certainly a gerrymander; there are no two ways about it. Country interests have been completely disregarded, as have the important provisions of the Act concerning the community of interest and the means of communication. So I am against the proposed redistribution of the electorates in New South Wales. I cannot understand why the Minister for Services and Property, who was formerly from a country area, wants to eliminate the Country Party. As a matter of fact the whole attack by honourable members on the Government side of the chamber in the debate on this legislation has been against the Country Party. The Country Party must be a thorn in their side for them to pick it out for such improper treatment. 
They hate the Country Party and country people. Together with our Liberal Party colleagues, we are certainly not in favour of the proposed redistributions and we will fight them tooth and nail. I have mentioned the electorates that will be affected by the implementation of the proposed redistribution in New South Wales. It would mean the elimination of the electorate of Riverina, as an act of retribution, and the loading of the electorates of Hume and Paterson. If that is not a gerrymander I would like to know what is. One would have to be very naive politically not to perceive that it is a gerrymander. I am a former member of State Parliament in this country. The seat I held in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly was eliminated 10 months after I was elected to it. I am now faced with a similar proposition. The Commissioners apparently had that in mind. 
That is what has been done. I am therefore vehemently opposed to this legislation and will fight it tooth and nail. 
Has the Attorney-General been correctly reported in the Sydney Press to the effect that he strongly supports lower tariffs? Is it true that lower tariffs introduced in 1973 by the Government have created over 120 000 unemployed in the textile and clothing industries alone? Is this more than one-third of Australia's registered unemployed? Has this policy been a disaster for the textile industries, seriously affecting both employers and employees? How does the Minister reconcile his statements that lower tariffs are in Australia's interests, when this great industry with other local manufacturing industries is in a state of economic chaos? 
-As the previous speakers have said, this Bill provides for two main changes in the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974. The first is the provision of an additional $450,000 to be spent on flood mitigation works in Brisbane in the 1974-75 financial year. In the second reading speech of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  it was indicated that further funds will be made available in future years as the work proceeds. Of course this has to be with parliamentary approval. This is the first major Australian Government contribution to urban flood mitigation. Although this may be a small beginning we feel that it is extremely urgent that urban flood mitigation should receive considerable assistance because over the years urban flooding has caused considerable losses throughout the length and breadth of Australia. 
It has been said by some people that the additional allocation in the legislation will mean an increase in the already large Government Budget deficit which may be considered undesirable in the current inflationary situation. But I would agree with other honourable members that this program is of such importance that this sum should not be regarded as too great in the circumstances. The indication given in the second reading speech that more funds will be provided in future years means that the Queensland Government can commit itself to long term flood mitigation projects, but as the amount of future assistance is unspecified it may face problems in drawing up a long term flood mitigation program. By providing assistance for flood mitigation works the Government will be helping to reduce losses from future floods and hence part of the burden of public disaster relief which it might otherwise have to bear. 
Over the years the Paterson electorate, which I represent in this House, has seen some very disastrous flooding in the towns of Muswellbrook and Singleton and in the City of Maitland. I have no doubt that this Bill will pave the way in the future for urban finance for flood mitigation in these towns that I have mentioned and indeed in many other towns right throughout the length and breadth of Australia. So it is a measure which, in the main, we support. 
It is interesting to note that in the United States of America the Government has taken a different approach by subsidising flood insurance for people living in identified floodprone areas, tied to incentives to encourage land use policies which would limit building in floodprone areas or allow only elevated flood-proof construction. If communities which have been identified as flood-prone by the Government did not satisfy the building requirements, the residents would be ineligible to buy flood insurance at the subsidised rate, that is, US$0.25 per $100 or 0.25 per cent, with the Government paying about 90 per cent of the actual cost. Neither would they be eligible for disaster relief should a flood occur. A stronger incentive over the long run is that residents in flood-prone areas would be unable to obtain any federal or federally-assisted loans for new construction or mortgages on existing buildings unless they had flood insurance. 
At present, flood insurance cover in Australia is generally unavailable or, where it is available, only at very high cost from private insurers. However, the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation will be undertaking natural disaster insurance, possibly in the near future, and there is no doubt that we need natural disaster insurance cover in this great country of ours.* The United States example shows that future government assistance for flood mitigation may be unnecessary if incentives are tied to government flood insurance to encourage more responsible use of flood plains. It is something that could be looked at here. 
* See personal explanation, page 3436. 
The second part of this Bill provides for a more flexible approach to the terms of loans made by the Government to the States, and for the terms to be defined in the financial agreements made with each State on each project rather than in the general legislation providing the financial assistance. Of course, under the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 loans had to be repaid within a period of 30 years except in the case of loans for sewerage projects which were over 40 years. The change provided for by the Bill will permit the Government to defer repayment of loans if the relevant projects fail to generate sufficient income to meet the repayments when they fall due. I notice that in the Bill specific reference is made to the Albury-Wodonga regional development scheme in which the Australian Government is co-operating with the New South Wales and Victorian Governments. Many of us on both sides of this House are not completely in favour of this type of development because it could dampen the enthusiasm of those local governments which are anxious to develop their own areas. Be that as it may, the AlburyWodonga complex is under way and everyone would want to see it become a success. 
By allowing changes in the terms of loans to be made directly in the financial agreements with the States, the Government will be able to give individual consideration to the circumstances of projects in each State. This will refer not only to the Albury-Wodonga complex but also to any other projects of a similar nature throughout Australia. I have no doubt that if this complex is successful there will be others, such as the scheme for the Orange-Bathurst area. However, the proposed changes would not be necessary if the Government considered that the projects for which it was providing financial assistance would be viable and able to earn sufficient income for the loans to be repaid within the time specified. The proposal to change the Act would imply that there are some doubts about the viability of projects in terms of generating money returns as opposed to providing social benefits. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-In the time available to me tonight I wish to bring up the plight of the textile industry in this country. In the past 10 months, the Australian Government has taken some kind of action to stem the crippling flow of imports of textiles, including apparel. Nevertheless, the industry has still a long way to go before it can look forward with any certainty to profitable operation. In many cases, the high level of imports will still be possible despite quota arrangements approved by the Government. Consequently many sectors of the industry are faced with uncertainty as to the future demand by the retail trade for Australian made goods. 
The industry is one of Australia's largest in terms of employment and capital investment. It is Australia's largest decentralised industry. Along with the apparel section, it employs upwards of 200 000 persons. It has an important influence on many other industries. It is a vital factor in the employment of women. There is a very high percentage of women employed in the textile and clothing industries in this country. In some sectors it is highly capital intensive; in others, it is labour intensive but labour intensity is rapidly declining because of the fall in demand for textiles of Australian manufacture. 
I wish to speak about broad woven textile fabrics. Most countries right throughout the world import about 10 per cent of their consumption of fabrics whereas Australia imported 79 per cent of its consumption of broad woven fabrics in 1973-74. 1 have some figures here which I will site for that year which demonstrates the effect that imported textiles are having on this great industry in our country. Of the total market supplies of broad woven fabrics, 79 per cent were imported, 69 per cent were imported duty free, 10 per cent of imports were dutiable and 2 1 per cent were Australian made. Of total imports last year, 87 per cent were duty free. I turn to the total market supplies of broad woven fabrics, Australian made as against imported, identified by fibre type and origin of supply. 
In respect of wool fabrics, 20.49 million square metres were Australian made and 2.26 million square metres were imported. In respect of cotton fabrics, 49.43 million square metres was Australian made and 463.13 million square metres were imported. In respect of man-made fibre fabrics, 62.61 million square metres were Australian made and 95.54 million were imported. Those figures are certainly alarming. The duty free imports of these fabrics were as follows: Wool fabrics, 210 000 square metres; cotton fabrics, 392.63 million square metres; man-made fibre fabrics, 53.31 million square metres. The total quantity of duty free fibres imported into Australia was 446.15 million square metres. Total supplies of fabrics were: Duty free, 446.15 million square metres: Duty paid, 65.2 1 million square metres; Australian made, 132.53 million square metres. That gives a grant total of 643.89 million square metres. 
So honourable members can see from these figures that the textile industry in this country is having a very difficult time in competing with imported fabrics which often are made by a labour force earning $A12 a month. We have 300 000 people unemployed in Australia and more than 120 000 of that number are from the textile industry. In other words, one-third of the unemployed people in this country have been made unemployed by the action of this Government in reducing tariffs across-the-board and in allowing these cheap imports into Australia. This has affected our own manufacturers. In my electorate of Paterson, the great Bradmill factory at Rutherford which, 18 months ago employed 1350 people, today employs under 600 people. The employment figures for the Courtauld factory at Raymond Terrace are also down. A similar situation applies to the Bond's factory at Cessnock in the electorate of Hunter. The employment figures of many other manufacturers are down. In the city of Maitland, 2 clothing manufacturers have recently closed down altogether, adding to the unemployment situation in the textile industry and creating great problems not only for those who are unemployed but also for the Government in keeping up the schemes which provide sustenance payments. When these sustenance payments run out there will be a very serious financial situation in any area where textiles are manufactured and where textile industry employees have been put off. 
These schemes which are operated by the  Government  are quite all right, but they would be totally unnecessary if this particular industry had been investigated, if homework had been done on it, before the 25 per cent acrosstheboard tariff reduction was introduced. I know that these quotas that have been agreed to by the importing countries have assisted in a small way, but the only way to stop this flood of textiles into Australia from cheap labour countries is to reimpose tariffs. From looking at newspaper articles and from listening to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in this chamber, it would appear to me that the textile industry can expect very little assistance from this Government. The industry will be allowed to wither on the vine. I heard it reliably stated tonight by an eminent person in the textile industry that one of the reasons why the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard)  resigned from this Parliament was because of the great problems that he was experiencing with unemployment in the textile mills in the Bass electorate. Let us have some sane approach by the Government towards assisting this great industry in this country, which has been built up by pioneers over decades, to provide Australians with good quality textiles. We were prepared to pay the prices asked for these textiles. The employees in -these mills were quite happy. They were drawing decent wages and working under decent conditions, but someone in the Government did not do his homework. If he had, surely the Government would never have introduced this 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut and put thousands of decent Australian men and women out of work. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. Having read the transcript of Hansard of 2 June I would point out that in my speech on the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Bill I made mention of the need for a national disaster fund. However, I used the words 'Australian Government Insurance Corporation' when I intended to say national disaster fund. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that many thousands of young Australians are drawing full unemployment benefits and living in our coastal areas? Has the number of young people living in the areas mentioned and seeking social security benefits doubled in the past 7 months? What action does the Government intend to take to make sure that these people can be gainfully employed or work for the social security assistance being given to them, thus making a contribution for the benefit of the nation? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. Canned beef is being imported into Australia from the Argentine, Brazil and France as evidenced by these visual canned exhibits purchased in Brisbane on 30 July 1975 and readily available through other outlets in Australia. Does the availability of imported beef products reflect the Government's total disregard for the problems of cattle producers? Will the Minister take up the matter with the Minister for Agriculture to ensure that imports of canned beef into Australia cease immediately? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  As a broad comment, the Budget tends to aggravate cost inflation while giving little definite, positive stimulus to employment. When we have a look at unemployment we find that this Government has done very little to arrest it. When the Liberal-Country Party coalition was in government at the end of 1972 unemployment in Australia was running at approximately 90 000 persons. What do we find today? Under this Government we find that it is running at 300 000 persons. In December 1972 it was running at the rate of 1.77 per cent of the work force and now in June 1975 it is 5 per cent of the work force. That is a great deterioration in the employment situation in this country since the Labor Government has come onto the treasury bench here at Canberra. 
This Budget will aggravate demand pressures in a few special cases. For example, the Government's demand for middle range research, administrative and planning personnel will continue at a high and slightly increased level while there are already numerous unfilled vacancies of this nature. This tends to bid up salaries offered for people with qualifications and experience even vaguely relevant to the advertised jobs, which in turn forces private enterprise to pay more to retain people. The salary pressure may also spread through relativities to other classes and to other types of workers. This is a dangerous situation which must not be overlooked. But I am afraid, looking at the Budget, it appears that it certainly has been overlooked. 
The increases in certain indirect taxes will aggravate the forces of cost inflation, which is the current problem in the Australian economy. Increases in excise taxes on beer, spirits, tobacco products and crude oil will be largely passed on by retailers in higher consumer prices after present stocks are worked off. This by itself will directly worsen inflation as measured by changes in the consumer price index. The increased postal and telephone charges will also add to the CPI in the December quarter 1975. Fancy an increase of 80 per cent in the postal rates of this country. No one ever thought that postage in Australia for an ordinary letter would reach the present figure. In the early days of postage it was called penny postage. The rate is now 18c for a letter. I just wonder how the Australian Postal Commission will handle this situation because people will not use the postal system. Unless the Postal Commission gets a huge turnover it could face serious financial problems. The increases are a great disadvantage to people living in country areas who rely on the postal and telegraph service for their very existence. In fact, this whole Budget legislates against the country people of Australia. 
These increases could even have a continuing effect on the wage-price spiral if wage earners receive wage increases based on increases in the raw CPI including the effect of indirect tax increases. If this is the case the CPI increases will flow through wage indexation to wage increases. These, by adding to costs at a time when business profits are already low, will tend to be passed on in higher prices. These will lead back to higher wages through wage indexation and so the spiral could continue, only gradually petering out. 
What has this Government done in the Budget to assist the smaller business people? More than 2000 small businesses have closed in Australia in the past 14 months. Small businesses employ 42 per cent of the work force in Australia. Prior to Budget day the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  said that they must help private enterprise and that the essence of the Budget would be to assist the small businessman. This Budget is a tragedy for the small businessman. By small businesses I mean undertakings with 100 employees or fewer. The Prime Minister and the Treasurer have broken the promises that they made prior to this Budget. I am very much afraid that there will be many small businesses and private enterprises throughout our nation which will go out in the months that lie ahead of us. I am very sorry indeed to have to make a statement of that nature in this wonderful country. 
The Government's view is that price increases due to indirect tax increases should be excluded from the calculation of the CPI figures for wage indexation purposes. However, this view, although sensible on economic grounds, might not be accepted by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or major trade unions. The Budget strategy has been to avoid an increase in the share of total spending taken by the Government sector. The planned real increase in Government spending of less than 5 per cent is likely to absorb only a minor part of the resources currently not employed and the remaining unemployed resources will be left available for the private sector to pick up if it so wishes. However, since private confidence remains depressed and the Budget gave little in the way of positive financial incentives to private business the private sector will not recover sufficiently in 1975-76 to take up much of the slack. Accordingly, unemployment will remain high. 
Government supporters talk about business confidence. Honourable members on the Government side who have spoken in this debate have made great play of the fact that the savings bank balances in Australia and bank balances generally are at an all-time high and that the people are not spending their money. This is true, because the people have no confidence in the present Labor Administration here at Canberrano confidence at all. That is why they have their money still in the banks. They believe that that is the best place for it. In fact the statements attached to the Budget Speech and the Treasury's underlying assumptions agree with the idea that unemployment will scarcely be diminished by June 1976. They suggest that employment will increase by 1 per cent. However, if one assumes a natural growth in the available . labour force of 1 per cent to 2 per cent- that is with school leavers, etc.- the outlook for a decline in unemployment is dim. Registered unemployment in June 1975 represented 4.5 per cent of the work force, as I mentioned earlier in this speech. 
The only extra financial incentives given in the Budget are a further cut of 2.5 per cent in company tax, given at a time when company profits are down- this 2.5 per cent cut across the board really means very little to private companies in Australia- a continuation of the double depreciation allowance and cuts in marginal rates of personal income tax. The latter cuts are less impressive after likely inflationary increases in incomes are taken into account. Increases in postal charges and other excise taxes will operate counter to cuts in personal income tax. 
This Government has set out openly to socialise many industries. It believes in socialism and it is its policy to socialise industry, production, distribution and exchange. Recently in this House we have seen introduced legislation which openly envisages the socialisation of transport, minerals and energy, insurance and many other facets of business in Australia. It is interesting to consider the achievements of the socialist Government in Great Britain, a country which I recently had the pleasure of visiting. That Government has socialised industry. It nationalised the private steel making industry. 
That industry is presently losing f stg5m a week. The electricity industry is losing f stg257m annually, the gas industry stg42m annually, the Post Office stg300m annually and British Railways stgl50m annually. Prior to nationalisation those industries under private control were returning profits to the people who had invested in them. Today in Canberra we have a government which seeks to socialise industries. I suggest that under socialisation results similar to those in Great Britain would be achieved. God forbid that this Government's socialisation program should go unheeded in Australia. 
No attempt has been made in the Budget to arrest inflation. All we hear is that inflation is the same throughout the world, that all western democracies have inflation problems. They certainly do, but nothing like the rate of inflation that this Government has achieved in Australia. In its 2 years 9 months of government the rate of inflation has increased from 4.5 per cent in December 1972 to 17 per cent in June 1975. Australia has the third highest rate of inflation of all the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. As I said, no attempt has been made by the Government to arrest inflation and, unfortunately, we will see inflation increase further. Under this Government overdraft interest rates have increased from-7.75 per cent in December 1972 to 1 1.5 per cent in 1975. Truly Australia's economy has been mismanaged under Labor. 
What has happened in the minerals and energy field? The Budget proposes an export tax on coal- $6 a tonne on coking coal and $2 a tonne on steaming coal. In the instance of steaming coal this $2 a tonne is the margin of profit of the companies that mine and market it. Fancy crippling an industry which has been a bright light in the development of Australia, a bright light in our economy and a bright light in our export income. The Hunter Valley, in my electorate, is one of the biggest coal mining areas of New South Wales if not of Australia. It has open cut mining and underground mining. A huge export business has been built up. With the imposition of the proposed export tax this industry could be in trouble with consequent effects on employment. 
The position of Treasurer has been changed three times during this Government's 2 years 9 months in office. The change of Treasurership and change of fiscal policy certainly have not given the people of this nation the confidence they want before they start to spend their money. Such confidence is necessary before there can be the production of consumer goods that is necessary. Unless confidence is restored to the people we can expect problems, such as I have mentioned throughout this speech, to continue. 
Let us consider some of the economies proposed in the Budget and evident in the Government's defence policy. I refer to cadet units in schools, not only in the great public schools but also in high schools throughout our nation. The Government has discontinued financial assistance for the provision of cadet schooling. I venture to suggest that many honourable members in this House are receiving strong representations from school cadets, from their parents, from the Returned Services League and from Army chiefs concerning this matter. Cadet units have provided a service which has been of wonderful benefit to Australia and to the young men who have participated in the scheme. School units have provided many of our Army, Air Force and Navy personnel. 
One matter which has worried me considerably is the throwing about of money in a rather reckless manner because of lack of administration. Under the Regional Employment Development scheme the Government made money available to areas for the employment of people who had been displaced because of the removal of tariffs from imported textiles and clothing. In many areas the RED scheme was wonderfully supervised, but in other instances it was not supervised and money was wasted. The National Employment and Training scheme was designed to retrain people who had been displaced from their previous employment because of the Government's tariff policy, but in many instances it took three or four months to get any satisfaction, not from the Government but from those who were administering the NEAT scheme. I feel, along with other honourable members on this side of the House, that considerable sums were expended that would not have been spent had the administration been right up to the knocker or first class as it should have been. 
The sustenance payment made to men and women who lost their jobs as a result of the Government's tariff policy was often delayed for three or four months and this caused considerable hardship. It would have been better not to have entered into this scheme unless it were to be adminsitered properly. Of course there are other instances where administration and handling of monetary affairs have been poor. Recently not far from my electorate of Paterson the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs office at Moree ran up a telephone bill of $ 1 8,600. We have nothing against Aborigines, who are part of our Australia, but there should be administration to ensure that money is not wasted along the lines I have mentioned. I have much pleasure indeed on behalf of my Party in supporting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition and I commend it to the House. 
I join my colleagues the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  and the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  in expressing some opinion on this clause which relates to transactions which are said to be in the national interest, that is, transactions which are not in accordance with sound commercial principles under which the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation is directed to operate. The provisions in clause 13 make commercial accountability of the Corporation quite meaningless. The clause is wide enough to permit the Corporation, at the Minister's direction, to engage in any transaction. This is one of the features in this legislation with which we in the Opposition are not happy. Why bring in all these unnecessary powers if they are not going to be used? This clause makes a mockery of all the other provisions of the Bill which purport to impose qualifications on the powers of the Corporation. In effect, it permits the Corporation to import into Australia goods already manufactured in Australia. 
-Last November in this House I brought up a matter concerning the travelling post office in New South Wales and the strong rumours that were circulating at that time that this service was to be discontinued. The Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  was asked to continue the service and delegates, officers of the postal union, arrived at Parliament House to take up the matter with the Minister. The Postmaster-General informed the delegates and myself that he was prepared to carry on the service provided the New South Wales Government continued with the mail vans on the trains. So 2 governments were involved in this matter of the travelling post office- the Federal Government and the State Government of New South Wales. When the New South Wales Government was approached it indicated that it required increased payments for the continuation of this service on its rail system. 
This important matter has now come to a head. The mail officers' ban on travelling post offices at present has cut off mail deliveries in New South Wales to about 200 country towns. The officers are protesting against a proposal by the New South Wales Public Transport Commission to abolish travelling post offices from 19 September. The travelling post offices are commissionowned vans which are attached to trains and travel daily to the remote parts of New South Wales. They are manned by 108 mail officers who sort the mail as they travel and leave it at country stations. The New South Wales Minister for Transport, the Honourable Wal Fife, has said that he will discontinue the service on 19 September unless the Australian Government pays for new vans to replace the present ones, most of which are about 50 years old. New South Wales is the only State in Australia with a travelling post office service and it has been operating there since 1870. Last night the State Executive of the Amalgamated Postal and Telecommunications Union rejected a proposal that sorters at the Sydney Mail Exchange should stop letters going out, in sympathy with the travelling post office. 
It has been ascertained that the TPO service is one of the cheapest and surest means for the transportation of mails in New South Wales. Country people in the far western and far-flung parts of the State use the TPO considerably and it will be a very serious blow to them if this service is discontinued. People living in far-flung areas will be seriously disadvantaged by the cessation of the service. The Postmaster-General is requested to approach again the New South Wales Government through its Minister for Transport to see whether the present impasse can be solved. There is no doubt, as I mentioned earlier, that the 2 governments which are involved do not seem to be getting anywhere on the retention of this important service. I feel that it is of such importance that every effort should be made to continue it and to see whether the 2 governments can come together and keep such a valuable postal service in operation in New South Wales for the benefit of the people living in the country areas who receive this efficient and reliable service. It seems a great pity that some decision cannot be made to keep the service going. I commend it to the attention of the PostmasterGeneral and trust that in the few days left before 19 September arrangements of a satisfactory nature can be made to continue the service. 
-The Budget proposals introduced by the Government on Tuesday, 19 August 1975, included, inter alia as regards income tax, the replacement of certain concessional deducations by rebate of tax. The principal items of concessional expenses now rebatable, beginning in the income year which commenced on 1 July 1975- instead of being deductions in determining the taxable income which was the case for the year of income ended 30 June 1975 and for prior years of income- are as follows: Rates and land tax on taxpayer's principal residence- a limit of $300; life insurance premiums and superannuation fund contributions- a limit of $1,200; and medical expenses- no limit. The rebate of tax in respect of all rebatable concessional expenses is the greater of $540 or 40 per cent of the total amount of rebatable items. Thus, even though a taxpayer may have no rebatable concessional expenses, he is entitled to a concessional rebate of $540. The 40 per cent rebate begins to operate where the concessional expenses exceed $1,350. Where a taxpayer has substantial rebatable expenses, his taxable income is increased by the amount of such rebatable expenses, and this can result in a substantially higher tax liability than would have applied under the previous concessional deducations system. 
I instance the case of a person who spends most of his time in an iron lung. He has advised me that his concessional deductions, comprising mostly salaries paid to qualified nurses, for the year ended 30 June 1975 totalled approximately $10,000. He estimates that about the same amount or more will be incurred for the current year ending 30 June 1976. He has a net income, before concessional expenses, from property, of approximately $20,000. He advises me that he cannot recover any of these expenses from the Medical Benefits Fund or from Medibank as from 1 July 1975.1n respect of the year of income ended 30 June 1975 his tax position was as follows: Net income from property, mostly rentals- $20,000; less concessional deductions, principally nurses' salaries- $10,000; taxable income-$ 10,000; tax on $10,000-$2,780; add 10 per cent surcharge on property income included in taxable income- $278; tax payable on 1974-75 taxable income-$3,058. 
Now that the 10 per cent surcharge on property income has been eliminated, his tax for the year ending 30 June 1976 under the present system, and assuming no change in the rates of tax, would be $2,780. However, under 'the most sweeping reforms of the tax system ever made', as they were hailed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  his tax position for the year of income ending 30 June 1976, assuming that the rebate system becomes law, will be as follows: Net income from property, as before -$20,000; tax on $20,000-$7,960; less 40 per cent rebate on $10,000 concessional expenses- $4,000; tax payable on 1975-76 taxable income-$3,960. The sweeping reform of the tax system will increase this unfortunate taxpayer's income tax liability by $902 or approximately 29te per cent, taking into account the 10 per cent property surcharge, or by $1,180 or approximately 42 Vi per cent, not taking into account the abandoned 10 per cent surcharge on property income. 'Sweeping reform' in this case should really read 'sweeping punishment'. 
Perhaps the case illustrated is not as isolated as one may think. Paying 39.6 per cent tax on a net income of $10,000-made up of $20,000 income less concessional expenses of $10,000- is in my opinion a savage impost. Out of the $20,000 income, this unfortunate taxpayer is left with only $6,040 after tax. I recommend that this matter be investigated by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  and by the Government as it appears to be a very severe tax to have to pay and as there are many more instances of a similar nature. 
I ask the Minister for Minerals and Energy: Is the $6 tax per ton on coking coal and $2 per ton on steaming coal particularly severe on coal mines in New South Wales? Is the Minister aware of the narrow margins within which mine proprietors are working even with increased export prices? Will he undertake to review the tax and report the implications to this House and his colleagues with a view to its cancellation if the effects are as disastrous as the industry fears? 
It has been very disappointing to us on this side of the chamber to see so little being given to primary producers who provide the bulk of export income for Australia and who should be assisted and encouraged to keep up production in the various fields. In the Budget very little help was given to the agricultural sector. It is true that a  2Vi  per cent reduction in tax has been given to companies. But with the poor returns being received by companies this will be of little assistance indeed to primary producers. An allowance for double depreciation on purchase of new plant and equipment has been continued beyond 30 June 1 975. Of course this is a pOliCY which was adopted and introduced by the Liberal-Country Party government before the advent of the Labor Government. 
No superphosphate bounty has been approved despite a favourable report from the Industries Assistance Commission. We believe that in the interests of primary production that assistance by way of a bounty is essential for primary industries. Millions of acres of this country require superphosphate, and the benefit in production from its use is tremendous. This applies to crops and pastures, to vegetable growers at Maitland in the Paterson electorate, to sheep producers, to cattle producers and to the grain producers. The increased production from the superphosphate bounty brings a resultant inflow to the Commonwealth Treasury. 
The publication of a list of major superphosphate users has little real relevance to the debate on the restoration of the superphosphate bounty. The published list carries with it the imputation that only large growers benefit from the bounty. This is misleading. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics reveals that in 1973 the average use of superphosphate in the sheep and cattle industries, which also includes most wheat growers, was from 35 to 40 tons per property. Producers named in the document tabled in Parliament comprise less than half of one per cent of all producers in the industry. What a ridiculous situation. In fact the superphosphate bounty has assisted the vast majority of producers in Australia who are organised as family farm units. The year 1973 was typical in that it represented above average levels of income which enabled producers to catch up on fertiliser expenditure deferred from earlier periods of low income. The bounty should be restored as recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission. Why the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  will not agree to its restoration is beyond us. As I stated earlier it will bring greater revenue into the Treasury. 
The Government has defrauded the dairy industry of $ 1 9.2m which the Government said it would allocate this year. Meat is being imported while the Australian beef industry struggles. Potatoes worth $6m have been imported at a time when farmers have had marketing problems. These potatoes have been imported from Canada, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom and America. Having a further look at the dairy industry assistance statement we find that the $ 19.2m provided in the Budget for this industry was in fact part of $28m allocated last year. This $ 19.2m is already committed, so in fact the industry will get nothing from the Budget. These instances clearly indicate that the man on the land has received nothing from this Government. Our great cattle industry through lack of Government help is being allowed to wither on the vine. 
It is true that the Budget allocated $ 19.6m to match the States dollar for dollar in the 4 per cent interest field through the rural banks and in the various States. The Commonwealth Development Bank provided $20m to primary producers at 1 1 per cent. This is the normal bank rate of interest but the cattle industry is in such a perilous position that it cannot possibly service an interest rate of 1 1 per cent. A further $8m has been made available. The cattle industry in this country wants at least $100m to $150m to assist the producers to get back on their feet. The Minister for Northern Australia  (Dr Patterson)  has said that he has faith in the cattle industry, so have we, but it must not be allowed to wither on the vine. The industry in the future will become a large export earner and the industry must be helped over a difficult period. Our export problems have been in the European Economic Community and Japan. Our country people have been hit hard in the Budget by increased telephone, postage, petroleum and distillate charges. People living in the country areas of Australia depend entirely on communications and transport. These savage increases which have been applied through the Budget will severely increase the costs and inconvenience people living in the great country areas of Australia. We on this side of the House know what benefit the primary producers are to Australia 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. ( Quorum formed) 

Department of Minerals and Energy 
Proposed expenditure, $5 1,245,000. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. When the Government introduced the Regional Employment Development scheme to relieve unemployment, did the rules provide for payment of wage increases and increased costs of materials during the progress of projects? Have many organisations and local government councils lodged claims for these increased costs and has payment been refused by the Government? Is this a repudiation by the Government which is causing severe financial problems for such bodies? Will the Minister take up this urgent problem with the Minister for Labor and Immigration in another place to see that the promises made by the Government are honoured? 
-In the estimates for the Department of Overseas Trade $58,871,000 has been allowed for 1975-76 as against an expenditure of $29,020,304 in 1974-75. It is interesting to see the figures in connection with the Commissioner Trade Service which has been slightly increased to $10,487,000, but the big increase is in respect of the Export Development Grants Board for which the sum appropriated is $27.5m. I wish to speak about the loss of our market in Great Britain as a result of that country's joining the European Economic Community. This has had a very serious effect on the sale of our primary products in that area and has been a severe blow to our export income. We must look to other markets to take up this loss with respect to our primary products previously sold to Great Britain. Meat has been the biggest single commodity on which we have lost out. The downturn in the Japanese buying of beef has been the main reason for the calamitous situation in the cattle and beef industry in this country. 
We must use every device at all levels to increase our beef trade with other countries. Surely the oil producing countries, the Arab countries- Saudi Arabia and other such countriesmust be surveyed for possible achievements in the export of our meat. We must use every sales effort to promote the sale of our great primary products in that area. We must also make every effort to sell our primary products to the Eastern bloc countries. Our political persuasion may be different from that of those countries but, if they can pay for our primary products, let us sell to them. I have in mind Yugoslavia, Romania, Hungary, Poland, Austria, Czechoslovakia and, of course, Russia. 
Over the years we have carried out trade with these countries in a minor way. It is felt that if we make every effort to sell our products to countries in that region we will be successful. We have recently sold to the U.S.S.R. a parcel of 40 000 tons of beef. It was at 22c a kilo only. Nevertheless, it helped us to get rid of some of the surplus beef that we have in this country. I am very sad to say that only 35 000 tons was shipped. This was as a result of the failure of the wharfies to play ball and the ship having to leave 5000 tons short. That was a disaster. 
The Australian Wheat Board has been very successful indeed. It is to be congratulated on the sales results that it is producing. In February this year the Board sold $120m worth of wheat to China, the wheat to be shipped between April this year and March 1976. The deal was made in Melbourne and Canberra with the China National Cereals, Oil and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation and payment is to be made with interest within 12 months of shipment. This is a market on which Australia has always sold wheat, and whilst the present Government makes great play of the claim that more wheat has been sold to China while it has been in office, that claim is a fallacy because when the Liberal and Country Parties were in government huge sales of wheat were made to China, particularly in our last year of office, 1972. China will always buy our wheat when the price and quality are right and when we have stocks to sell. Russia has purchased 1 million tons of wheat, 750 000 tons initially and a further 250 000 tons the other day. I do not think our opposition to the Overseas Trading Corporation Bill would have any effect at all on our trade with China and Russia. We have always done business with these countries on a satisfactory basis and through private enterprise. 
I want to talk a little about the coal industry which is vital to my electorate and which had made a great contribution to the economic development of this country. It has become one of our great exports with big markets in Japan for our coking coal for steel mills. Recently the Government placed an export tax on coal and this has created a serious situation. It placed an export tax of $6 a ton on coking coal and $2 a ton on steaming coal. The mining companies and mining interests in the Hunter Valley have advised me that this tax could have a serious effect on the export of our coal, that it could price us out of some markets. Japanese buyers as recently as last week indicated that this was so. This tax has stopped further development of our industry. It has placed a clamp on further investment for the time being, for the further development of mines that are being developed now and on the development of new mines in the future. The $2 a ton export tax on steaming coal is in many instances more than the profit that mining companies are making out of this class of coal and it is causing great concern in the industry and in my electorate of Paterson where there is tremendous mining development from the City of Maitland over the Great Dividing Range out as far as Gunnedah. 
In the few minutes left to me I would like to speak about the Australian export of manufactured goods. The Australian Manufacturers Export Council has suggested that the Government reconsider as a matter of urgency the reintroduction of a growth export incentive in addition to the existing market development grants scheme. Recently in Sydney discussions focused on the New Zealand devaluation and its likely impact on Australian exporters. The Council is of the opinion that the New Zealand devaluation will seriously affect the export of Australian manufactures not only to New Zealand but also to third world countries. New Zealand companies are in the enviable position of not only receiving an effective price advantage over international competitors through the devaluation but also obtaining from their government generous assistance through recently extended export incentives. New Zealand is Australia's most important overseas market for manufactured products and Australia plays a significant part in supplying New Zealand with manufactured products. It is imperative that our Government urgently reconsider the reintroduction of a growth export incentive as an addition to the existing market development grants scheme. Although figures for Australian manufactured exports remain high they reflect only an historical situation. The good flow of overseas orders in the pipeline 6 months ago is dwindling to a relative trickle and we can expect a serious drop in future overseas earnings in the vital manufacturing sector. The Government has been warned continuously of the deleterious effects on employment of a downturn in manufactured exports and this is now in evidence. We must give additional help to exporters through restored incentives. 
It is noted that the estimates for the Department of tourism and Recreation provide for a proposed expenditure of $15,040,000 as compared with $11,043,316 for 1974-75. Tourism is an important export earner for Australia, and it is in Australia's interests to make every effort to increase the number of overseas visitors coming here. I am indebted to the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who took part in this debate a short time ago for advising that 10 per cent of the work force is employed in this industry. They are employed in the fields of hotels, motels, tourist coaches, tourist travel companies, car rentals and many others. Tourism is of great importance to this country. I trust that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  will be able to secure more funds to give impetus to this most important industry. It is also in our interests to see that recreational faculties are improved in order to benefit the health of the nation. I congratulate the Minister, who has a very distinguished record as a sportsman, on his efforts in this field. 
Last year Australia received 532 683 visitors from overseas. Foreign exchange earnings from tourism amounted to $184m. This was a rise of 27 per cent over the previous year, but when inflation is taken into consideration it comes down to about 7 per cent. Australian travellers overseas spent $357m, and our deficit on travel account was $173m. This is a serious situation. We must make every effort through the Australian Trade Commissioner Service and the State tourist bureaus to attract more visitors from overseas and to arrest this situation. A substantial and continuing decline has occurred in respect of the United States of America market. A drop has taken place also in the number of visitors to Australia from the United Kingdom and other European countries. 
As a visitor to the United States some months ago, it was evident to me that most people contacted in that country were very interested indeed in visiting Australia. The downturn in the number of United States tourists is most serious for the industry in Australia. We should be making every effort to secure more visitors from the United States. Many tourists companies rely on big turnover from tourists from the United States. A falling off in those tourist numbers is of great concern to the industry. It is reliably stated that American visitors spend at the rate of $353 a person. In those circumstances, it has been pleasing to learn that a mission of 40 representatives of organisations in the Australian tourist industry are visiting the United States to make the biggest drive to attract overseas tourists to Australia. I have no doubt that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, who is at the table, will be able to tell the Committee whether that delegation is in the United States at present and of any success that it is achieving. 
New Zealand also provides a big tourist traffic to Australia. In 1974 a total of 164 900 New Zealand tourists arrived in Australia. However, a big decline has taken place in New Zealand tourist numbers and the devaluation of the New Zealand dollar will probably inhibit further growth of this important tourist market. As one who has visited many overseas countries, my feeling is that more use could be made of our various established officers including our ambassadors, our consuls, our trade commissioners and the various State Agents-General. Perhaps the Minister and the Australian Tourist Commission are satisfied with the assistance already being given in this field. Nevertheless, from my own observations, my feeling is that more could be done through these avenues. I suggest that the Minister should check up on this aspect of tourist activities to see whether an improvement can be achieved. 
Australia has much to offer tourists. We have a magnificent coastline, glorious beaches and scenery unsurpassed. We have, for instance, the magnificent strip of northern country on our eastern seaboard, including the Gold Coast and the Great Barrier Reef. In our inland areas we have much to show tourists including our rural industries and our mining ventures. Various State governments have set up regional tourist associations. These are making a splendid contribution to the industry. However, with increasing costs, these associations are finding it extremely difficult to carry on their important activities. Financed by the various State governments, with funds from local government and with assistance from business people, these regional councils are finding it extremely difficult to meet their normal commitments such as the provision of tourism officers, tourist brochures, keeping open regional offices for the dissemination of tourist information, arranging coach tours and performing general tourism work. I commend these bodies to the attention of the Minister. If these State organisations should fail as the result of lack of financial assistance, this would be a blow to the industry. Massive funds are not required but sufficient funds are necessary to keep the system going. 
I know that as late as February 1974 the Minister for Tourism and Recreation indicated that legislation to control travel agents would be put before this Parliament. In a Press release, in February 1974, this intention was referred to. It stated: 
The Minister for Tourism and Recreation,  Mr Frank  Stewart, said today that since the recent collapse of Centralian Tours there had been speculation in the Press about the provision and timing of the proposed Travel Agents Bill. 
That legislation has been on the notice paper for some considerable time in this Parliament. Indeed, a few months ago, the stage was reached when the 2 relevant Bills were first and second on the daily program of business. Since that time the legislation has been relegated and, looking at our current program, I find that the 2 Bills are Nos 2 1 and 22 in the list of business. 
Many people travelling overseas have had great problems when travel agents and tourist companies have become insolvent. Great financial problems have been created for those people. It is most important that the travel agents legislation should be passed by this chamber. I ask the Minister to make every effort to impress upon his Cabinet colleagues and those responsible for the program of legislation before the Parliament the need for that legislation to be brought forward. I support the estimates for the Minister's Department. I know that he must have a most difficult task in obtaining allocations for tourism and recreational facilities. We on this side of the Committee will support the estimates because we know that these are of great importance to our nation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What sessional fee is being paid to doctors in Canberra for hospital service under Medibank. 
What sessional fee was offered to doctors in New South Wales under Medibank. 
What is the total cost of National Health Insurance, and how much of this is the cost of administration. 
What is the cost of dispensing in Government Health Centres. 
Is it a fact that one was closed because of excessive costs, and that the other is, or was, costing at least SO per cent more per prescription to operate than is being paid to chemists for the same service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) ls it a fact that 140 tick officers have been sacked. 
If so, does this mean that tick protection on the Queensland/New South Wales border is inadequate. 
What is the exact position with regard to tick inspectors in this particular area. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration in another place. I ask: Has the living away allowance for apprentices been of great assistance in helping these important industry employees? Has this allowance been eliminated? If not, is it the Government's intention to do away with this assistance? Would the Minister please inform the House and industry so as to clarify the position on this matter? 
I should like to . speak briefly to clause 1 of the Travel Agents Bill 1975. 1 am very pleased indeed that this Bill has at last reached the debating stage. It has been on the program on many occasions, only to be deleted for what was apparently thought by the Government to be more important legislation. The travel agent industry in this country is a big industry with some 1500 travel agents. It is worth $400m to the nation, so it is very important. As a member representing in this Parliament a huge country electorate I know that there are many travel agents throughout the Paterson electorate who make a contribution to the industry. They are pleased that this Bill has been brought forward. They are pleased in the main with the clauses of the Bill. I hope that the Bill will pass through this House and become law because it will protect both the travel agents and the clients of the travel agents. As the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  said, we have had instances of clients going overseas and being stranded destitute there because of the failure, financially, of the travel firm back home. This Bill will take care of that matter and will be a protection for both the travel agents in this industry and those using the services of those agents. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry who represents the Minister responsible for statistical returns in another place. I ask: Has the Australian Bureau of Statistics sent out forms to selected primary producers for completion? Do these forms contain much personal information when completed by the recipients? In view of the personal information revealed recently in Parliament concerning some users of superphosphate is it possible for the Minister to give an assurance that other primary producers will not be receiving the same treatment? If this assurance is not forthcoming it appears at the moment that some persons will be prepared to risk prosecution rather than complete the form. Will the Minister inform the House on this matter and clarify the situation? 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the dual meat inspection service  COstly  and increasing the price of meat products. 
Have any conferences taken place recently between the States and the Australian Government to bring in a single system of inspection. 
If not, will the Minister confer with the various States on this important subject to see if a single inspection service can be introduced for meat inspection in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
When the Government introduced the RED Scheme, did the rules provide for payment of wage and material increases during the progress of projects. 
If so, have many organisations lodged claims for these increased costs and been refused payment. 
If payment has been refused, is this a repudiation by the Government and has it caused severe problems for many societies and local governing bodies. 
Will the Minister ensure that the promises made are honoured. 
-I move: 
That  Mr Lucock,  the honourable member for Lyne, be appointed  Chairman  of Committees of this House. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Did the former Labor Government's tariff policy seriously affect the decentralised textile industry in Australia? Is the Minister aware that as a result of that policy the great Courtaulds (Aust.) Ltd works at Raymond Terrace will cease operations in early March? Did this concern employ 1600 people? Does it at present employ fewer than 600 people who have received notices terminating their employment? Will the Minister immediately investigate the situation to see whether it is possible to give assistance to keep the works operating? 
I congratulate the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  on moving the motion that the Address-in-Reply be agreed to and the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  on seconding it. Both made splendid speeches and it is evident that they have a splendid contribution to make in the debates that will take place during their term of office. I was amazed to hear the speech of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  in regard to electoral matters. He did not mention the fact that many members of the Australian Labor Party- not too many of them occupy seats in this Parliament todayrepresent 3 square miles of country. I compare that with the electorate of Maranoa which spans 200 000 square miles, and the electorate of Kennedy with an area of 250 000 square miles. People living in the great country areas of this nation are entitled to parliamentary representation just as much as the people living in a city electorate of 3 square miles. The honourable member should look at the Commonwealth Electoral Act. He will find that population is not the only factor that decides the electoral boundaries. Community of interests, means of communication and population are the criteria on which electoral boundaries are drawn, not population alone. If this nation is to develop country people must have parliamentary representation. 
The Address by  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral at the opening of the Thirtieth Australian Parliament made it quite clear that the policy of the Liberal-National Country Party Government is to bring inflation under control so that jobs will again be available for all who want to work. Control of inflation is, and must be, the Government's first consideration. Unless inflation is brought under control there will be no adequate employment opportunities and no soundly based return to prosperity. The rate of inflation achieved by the previous Government set an all-time record for Australia. When the former Government took over in 1973 the inflation rate was 5 per cent and when they lost the election on 13 December last the inflation rate was 17 per cent. It is all right for members of the Opposition to say that inflation was world-wide, but nowhere in the world was there achieved such a high rate of inflation as that achieved by the former Labor Government in Australia. 
We all must work to bring the inflation rate down and put the economy of this nation on a sound basis. The honourable gentleman might go and get his horse. 
The Government's 40 per cent investment allowance will be a stimulant to business and to the private sector. However, I ask that Cabinet further consider the proposition that the first $1,000 worth of items of a capital nature purchased under this investment allowance provision should attract some consideration. There is no doubt that the 40 per cent investment allowance will mean a great pick-up in our secondary industries in Australia. The investment allowance will benefit lorry manufacturers in our transport industry and the manufacturers of all types of industrial machinery. However, there are many small businessmen who would want to purchase for their businesses items of a capital nature worth $1,000 or a little more. If we are to help small businesses we should work towards ensuring that purchases involving an amount of $1,000 attract the investment allowance. There are many thousands of small businesses which would benefit from this allowance and they in turn would help the various manufacturing industries. We should ensure that these people are not deprived of assistance under the 40 per cent investment allowance provision. I feel sure that in view of the objections that have come forward from small businesses through representations made by members of Parliament urgent consideration will be given to reversing the investment allowance policy. I ask the members of Cabinet to have a look at this suggestion because I believe it will stimulate the economy as well as encouraging bigger purchases of a capital nature. 
The former Labor Government's policy in the mining and the petroleum fields has been disastrous for Australia. When we lost power in 1972 there were 19 oil drilling rigs off our coast. When Labor lost office in December there were about 2 oil drilling rigs. Labor's policy in this field pushed expertise and valuable capital overseas. The mining and petroleum industries are risk industries. If overseas interests are prepared to invest overseas capital in the mining and petroleum industries and are prepared to take the risks then we should not refuse to accept it because we do not want to lose their capital nor their expertise. The mining and petroleum companies exploring for products in Australia did not know from day to day what the Government's policy would be. 
As I have mentioned, oil drilling rigs have been removed from the Australian fields and mining companies with their expertise have left Australia during the 3 years of Labor administration. Exploration in these fields by mining and petroleum companies reached a very low ebb indeed. Australia is a very fortunate country in that as a result of the efforts of former Liberal Party Governments, we produce 70 per cent of our petroleum needs today. But during the next 10 years unless we discover other petroleum deposits in Australia this percentage will be considerably smaller and we will have to import more petroleum products from the Middle East, from Iraq and Iran with a subsequent loss of valuable exchange at great cost to the nation. So it is important that we get on with the job of petroleum exploration in this country. 
The present Government's specific objectives in this area include the use of foreign capital, especially capital accompanied by technology and expertise as an integral component of Australia's economic development, and maximum Australian ownership and control of natural resources with 50 per cent Australian equity participation in new projects and ventures. There is to be prohibition on foreign investment in specific sectors of the economy and supervision of foreign companies, according to the Government's guidelines. There will be an assessment of foreign investment, including takeovers, by a foreign investment review board. The objectives include the prevention of tax avoidance by foreign companies in Australia. These are policies which will assure the people of Australia control and ownership of our natural resources and at the same time provide for capital and expertise from overseas which are so necessary in the development of our mineral and petroleum resources. As I have mentioned already, under the previous Government overseas companies interested in these fields did not know from day to day what the policy would be. As a consequence we lost overseas capital and expertise. They are starting to come back now to assist the Australian Government in the development of our resources- our valuable mineral and petroleum deposits. Already companies in the search for petroleum in Australia have speeded up their drilling program and allocated more funds for this specific purpose. WoodsideBurmah Oil NL, for instance, is spending more funds in its quest for oil in this country and, with other exploration companies, will spend considerably more capital in the next few years. 
Already the Minister for National Resources, the  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country,  Mr Anthony,  has pushed forward the development of North- West Shelf natural gas by a few more notches, but much more negotiation will be needed before the $ 1,000m scheme takes definite shape.  Mr Anthony  said recently in his speech to the Japan-Australia Society in Tokyo that the Australian Government would allow the export of reasonable quantities of liquefied natural gas on a commercial basis. So there is confidence in this mineral and petroleum exploration field- something that was lacking in the last 3 years and it will restore these great industries to their rightful place in the Australian way of life 
I want to talk now about local government. The previous Government, through its Grants Commission, made available to local governments throughout Australia grants for assistance to certain local projects. That was commendable and I know that local governments appreciated it. But our Government's policy of providing a share of the general taxation revenue will be of far greater value because it will enable the shire or town clerks- the local government clerks- to include this taxation revenue in their estimates. Whilst the grants system of the previous Government was valuable, the grants would arrive willy-nilly throughout the year and local government clerks did not know when they were going to receive them. So the grants were not included in the estimates and were of little value to the ratepayers. I do not have to tell those assembled here the great problems of local government today. These are evidenced by the high rates that the ratepayers are asked to pay. So a share of the general taxation pool of our country will be of great benefit to local government throughout Australia. This system must be far more satisfactory than the previous one of intermittent grants. It should enable a reduction in rates throughout this very important section of government. 
The former Government's disastrous wholesale tariff reductions in the textile industry has had a very serious effect on the greatest decentralised industry in Australia. One of the big firms in this industry, Courtaulds Hilton Ltd, situated at Raymond Terrace, in the electorate of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  who occupies the chair, has a workforce which lives mainly in my electorate of Paterson. This wonderful industry had a workforce of some 1600 people several years ago. This has been reduced to less than 600 and now, owing primarily to the disastrous tariff policy enunciated by the former Government, the company has decided to close its works early next month and has given notice to its 600 employees. I am delighted to say that the honourable member for Lyne and I made representations today to our Ministers, who will be meeting executives of this company in Canberra next week. Let us hope that the final closure of this company can be averted. Only this week I asked a question in this House concerning the problem being experienced by Courtaulds and asked the Government to take cognisance of this fact. 
I am not really enamoured with the AlburyWodonga and Bathurst-Orange set-ups. I feel that we should be giving more attention to companies like Courtaulds and making every effort to prevent them from closing. They have been established over the years. They made a great contribution to the industrial and employment situation of Australia. I feel that, rather than opening up new centres, we should be maintaining those that have proved their ability and capacity to manufacture first class articles with Australian labour. 
The floods in northern New South Wales have caused considerable havoc. In my electorate of Paterson on the black soil Liverpool Plains tremendous flooding has taken place with a great loss of sorghum crops and fencing. Down the Hunter River, which is in the bottom portion of the Paterson electorate, there has been severe flooding. Several weeks ago at a place called Woodville I met farmers who had lost their entire crops of watermelons, rock melons, pumpkins, potatoes, maize and lucerne. Representations have been made to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasury  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to see what assistance can be given to those farmers who have lost their entire crops and who are in dire financial straits. I know that this applies to other parts of Australia but these are small farmers who rely entirely on the production of vegetable crops for the metropolitan market. Assistance is vital to these people and I hope that it will be forthcoming. 
It appears that in this wonderful country, because of the cyclones which occur frequently about our coasts and which are the reason for our inland floods, we will have to look at some scheme for assisting people on farms and in country towns adjacent to the rivers, who are experiencing considerable problems. I refer to places such as Mungindi, Moree, Narrabri, Wee Waa, Gunnedah and so on. The present Government will give assistance to the great rural industries of Australia. The last Government absolutely crucified the rural industries of our nation. It thought that because people owned land in country areas they were millionaires and made great profits, but it did not take into account droughts, poor prices for products and other factors. 
Our great cattle industry has been on its knees. One of the reasons for that was the fact that the previous Government revalued the dollar three times and did not allow the export tax on cattle to be lifted. This will now be lifted and it will help cattle producers in this country. It is good to know that the great cattle industry is picking up. The Deputy Prime Minister, The Leader of my Party, who has just returned from Japan had discussions with the Japanese about improving our exports of beef. This will be of great value economically not only to the farmers who produce beef but also to this country. So primary producers can look to the future with confidence in the knowledge that they have a government in Canberra that recognises the great importance of our wheat, wool, meat, sugar and other allied primary industries which mean so much to the economy of Australia. We had extreme difficulty impressing upon the former Labor Government the importance of these great rural industries to this country and the importance of our great mining industry and petroleum projects. 
We must make every effort to expand our overseas markets and ascertain the possibility of future entry into new markets. We know that there have been problems with Great Britain entering the European Economic Community. This has had a serious effect on our great cattle and meat industries. We are exporting 80 000 tonnes or 90 000 tonnes less a year. We must not neglect this market altogether. We must watch it because I believe that the time will come when we may be able to enter it. We have to establish new markets in Iraq, Iran and the Middle East where the people are starting to eat meat. This Government, through its Cabinet Ministers, will see that overseas markets are fully investigated and that everything possible is done to market these valuable Australian products. 
During his speech the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  said that confidence had not been restored in the business community. It is quite evident that he walks about with his eyes and ears closed, because there is confidence in the business community in Australia. As I travel throughout the length and breadth of Australia I see confidence developing in the business community already. That development of confidence will bring employment and prosperity to the nation. Saturday, 13 December, was indeed a most fortunate day for Australia and the people had their say and they put a sane government into power in Canberra. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Is it a fact that high postage costs are causing considerable financial problems for business and the community? Is it also a fact that many firms and private people are delivering accounts and correspondence in local areas and that the Australian Postal Commission is thereby missing considerable business? Is it further a fact that a considerable proportion of correspondence is directed to post office boxes and that this should be less expensive as regards mail sorting? Will the Minister investigate the proposition of having a local delivery rate- a reduced postage fee- for this type of mail? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Jackson Green Paper on manufacturing industry recently been released? If so, is it highly critical of the abattoir and meat processing sections of the meat industry? Are there approximately 100 meatworks operating in Australia, 70 of which hold export licences? Did the committee reporting to  Mr Jackson  inspect only 3 works in Australiaone in Brisbane, one in Victoria and one in New South Wales? Does the Green Paper suggest great changes in the abattoir side of the industry? Is the Australian Exporters Federal Council concerned with the findings of the report as damaging to the meat industry? Is it true that over the past 8 years over $ 100m has been spent in Australia on updating our abattoir and meat processing sections? Are our meatworks regarded internationally as being efficient and up-to-date? In view of the adverse nature of the report will the Minister thoroughly examine the Green Paper and take the necessary steps to correct the adverse assessment which has been made? 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that the Australian Postal Commission has increased private mail bag fees for country mail services throughout Australia to $30 a bag? Was this service fee increased to $15 last year and was it previously $4? Are many country people cancelling their private mail bag services owing to this exorbitant and iniquitous increased fee? Will the Minister investigate the charge with a view to having it reduced to a reasonable level? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, on notice: 
Has the Travelling Post Office Service in New South Wales been extended to February 1976. 
If so, does the Government intend to provide this most valuable service beyond that date. 
Can he say whether country people in New South Wales are extremely anxious that this service be maintained at all costs. 
Will he clarify the position in relation to the Service in New South Wales. 
I rise tonight to bring to the notice of the House the Jackson report on manufacturing industry, particularly as it refers to the meat industry in this country. Half the rural produce of Australia goes to manufacturing. But some of the factories  which process it are outdated and inefficient and do not give the service that suppliers could reasonably expect. As a result,  Mr Gordon  Jackson concludes, the rural sector is being poorly served by manufacturing industry as it operates today.  Mr Jackson  was  chairman  of the committee the Australian Government appointed to advise on policies for the development of manufacturing industry.  Mr Jackson,  who is general manager and a director of CSR Ltd, which has large interests in sugar, cattle and sheep, says that the Green Paper on manufacturing is as relevant as the saleyards to people who depend on rural industry for a living. 
Using the meat industry as an example of how country people are receiving a bad deal from manufacturing industry,  Mr Jackson  said the auctioneer's hammer in the saleyards might end a rural activity, but it also was the beginning of a manufacturing activity. A Press article issued on 7 January stated: 'The efficiency of the industry which takes over when the cattle are driven out of the saleyards is extremely important to the man who produces the cattle- just as important to him in the long run as efficiency of production on his own property, '  Mr Jackson  said. 'The meat processing industry was one of seven manufacturing sectors examined by the committee, and we found much that needed improving. 'Some plants had built-in reluctance to improve or make changes because of the seasonal nature of the work. Some had been built early in the century. In some cases doors to cold rooms were so small that only one man at a time could enter. Some plants had considered increasing the size of doors to enable forklifts to be used, but had decided against because of cost and lack of incentive and foresight. 'Conditions for people who worked in the plants left much to be desired. Accidents at the rate of ISO per day were not untypical of large abattoirs. They ranged from minor cuts to serious damage to tendons and amputation of fingers. 'First aid facilities were often inadequate. 'The men and women workers were also exposed to certain diseases transmissable from animals to humans. These zoonotic diseases include bovine brucellosis, Q fever and lepto spirosis. In recent years about 5 per cent to 6 per cent of adult breeding cattle slaughtered in New South Wales have positively reacted to the test for bovine brucellosis. The number of humans who have caught the disease is not known but the effects include fever and muscle spasms and on rare occasions sterility. 'The industry is fragmented and characterised by a wide variation in the size and scale of individual units. Many operate below optimum levels. 'Manufacturing industry needs to be changed to serve the country as it should. A great deal of change is needed, because the Green Paper emphasis is on what the country expects from manufacturing rather than the other way around. The policies suggested for manufacturing would be a positive help to farmers- with their costs, as well as their incomes. Tariff's would be reduced gradually, but inexorably; prices for such things as tractors and farm machinery would thereby be reduced. 'The Green Paper suggests how processing industries might be upgraded and made more efficient, more internationally competitive and more export-oriented so that they could serve their suppliers far better than they do now. 'The trend to lower tariffs would logically be associated with a trend towards a lower international value of the Australian dollar, which would mean higher prices on the farm for primary exports. 'The Green Paper calls for less concentration of industry in the main cities as a means of improving the quality of work life, and for more employment opportunities for young people in the country centres. ' 

 Mr Jackson said industry organisation of primary production was far ahead of manufacturing. 'The State departments of agriculture have been developed much further than the departments concerned with secondary industry,' he said. 'We suggest a stronger organisation in each State, and new organisations which would broadly correspond to the Australian Agricultural Council and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, as well as councils for each major sector of manufacturing industry. ' 

 Mr Jackson urged country people to interest themselves in the Green Paper proposals and the policies which might flow from them, and to encourage representatives of organisations to which they might belong, to ensure that they had a voice in the formulation of policies which would be adopted and implemented in the future. 
Those remarks made by  Mr Jackson  in the Green Paper are very damaging indeed to the meat industry of Australia and could affect seriously the exports of meat from many of our country abattoirs. I understand that the person responsible for making the report inspected only 3 meatworks- one in Brisbane, one in Melbourne and one in Sydney. We have approximately 100 meatworks in Australia and 70 of them are export meatworks. 
The Jackson report also mentions that capital expenditure on works in Australia was $107,678 in 1973; $1,197,547 in 1974; $346,081 in 1975; and $1,330,000 in 1976. 1 do not know where he obtained those figures because in the last 8 years over $100m has been spent in Australian abattoirs on capital works. That has had to be done because of United States Department of Agriculture meat regulations. That department sent its own inspectors to this country to see that our meatworks were brought up to date.  Mr Jackson  might be a very able man in the business world, being an executive of CSR Limited, but I feel that he has relied far too much on reports from other people to include in his report on manufacturing industry. The Federal Meatworks Association is very concerned with the inaccuracies in the report. It has taken up the matter and written to  Mr Jackson  but he has skipped around the answers to the questions they have asked. I hope that some action will be taken to acquaint him with the real position of meatworks in Australia. 
They are up to date; they are amongst the finest in the world, and  Mr Jackson  should be told that. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Is the Postal Commission commencing a campaign to close country mail services for economic reasons. 
If so, will this policy cause considerable inconvenience and problems for citizens living on out of town rural properties. 
Will great delays take place in receipt and delivery of important mail to these people. 
Will he explain the intention of the Postal Commission, and advise when this policy is likely to be implemented. 
I direct my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade. It has been reported that Japan is anxious to purchase Australian uranium and that an early meeting with uranium producers is being sought by that country. Can the Minister state the Government 's policy on the export of uranium to Japan and where the meeting with Japanese officials will take place? Are supplies of uranium in this country required for power generating and industry purposes? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
When will the School Cadet Training Scheme be reintroduced. 
Will it be on the same lines as previously. 
When will an official announcement be made as to the date of commencement and details of the Scheme. 
-One of the worst pieces of legislation to be introduced into this place has been legislation which divided the then Postmaster-General's portfolio into the 
Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Postal Commission. Members of the National Country Party of Australia spoke against this division at the time the legislation was before the House. Of course.the division was a  fait accompli  and we all now know the results. The 18c charge to post a letter in Australia represents the highest rate of postage in the world. 
As I travel throughout my electorate I am informed by postmasters in the towns and villages that the quantity of mail has fallen by from 17 per cent to 20 per cent. They fear that if this trend continues they will lose their jobs. The present postage rate is a tremendous load for small businesses and people living in country districts and the cities to carry. As I said, Australia has the highest postage rate of any country. Yet we are putting up with this situation. We are not expressing considerable opposition in this place to this high rate. I believe that we should be using everything in our power to influence the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to get on to the Postal Commission to see what can be done. 
Other impositions are placed on us every few weeks. Just recently the fee for mail bags used on country runs has increased from $15 to $30. The charge used to be $4. But in 1974 it rose to $15. The Postal Commission the other day issued instructions that mail bags used in the country mail bag service will cost $30. People living in the farflung areas of Australia are having this burden placed on them. I note that in Tasmania the cost of a country mail bag is of the order of $60. 
We on this side of the House are asking the Minister to get on to the Postal Commission to see whether this iniquitous fee, which is out of all proportion, can be reduced. Mail bags used in country mail services are owned by individuals who also provide the locks for the bags. The service provides a great means of mail delivery. Many country people will cease to use the service if this fee is to continue. People in country areas are being isolated by the delays that are taking place in mail services. Mail has taken three, four and five days to be delivered from country areas of New South Wales to the city. Indeed, in the cities it is taking two or three days for mail to be delivered into the suburbs. The cost of postage of periodicals and papers throughout Australia is exorbitant, and local newspapers and the printers of journals are very concerned with the problems they face in that field. We have heard recently that the ordinary letter rate might be increased to 23 cents, and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications should be informed that we expect him to see that some sanity is brought to bear on the Postal Commission. As businessmen we realise that goods have to be sold in quantity, but apparently the Postal Commission does not believe that. It believes that all it has to do is to keep putting up the prices. It is losing a great quantity of business and people are using mail courier services. IPEC, Comet and others are reaping the benefits of the exorbitant postal fees because people are sending mail through those services and that represents a loss to the Commission. 
The Australian Telecommunications Commission produced a net profit of $67. lm in its first 6 months of operation. That is the biggest profit ever disclosed by any business or corporation in this country and indicates that the price of some of the telecommunication services should be reduced. Telephone calls have gone up from 5 cents to 9 cents, trunk line fees right across the nation have been increased, and telephone rentals have been inceased by $27. It would appear that if the Commission can produce a profit of $67. lm then it ought to be able to reduce the cost of the services it provides. In both country areas and in the cities people who have lodged applications for telephone services are being told that it could take 2 years or more to provide them. One of the district telecommunications centres in my area informed me today that it has 1015 applications for telephones and the district telephone engineer says that there is a shortage of cable. A shortage of cable means that there is a shortage of funds to buy cable. I understand that plenty of cable is available from the manufacturers but the problem lies in the allocation of funds to buy new cable to give people telephone connections. 
I believe that the Telecommunications Commission ought to be looking at these factors and giving the people of Australia the sort of telephone services to which they are entitled. In certain country areas subscribers to exchanges situated 20 miles or 30 miles away from a main town are being charged for trunk line calls to that town, the town where they transact their business and get their goods and groceries and necessities of life. In some instances the exchanges have from 17 to 27 subscribers, which is only a small ring to telephone locally, yet when they telephone to the main town they are charged a trunk line rate. I think that that system needs to be looked at and revised by Telecom. There has been considerable comment in the Press on this matter, and in the  Age  of 8 March an article headed 'Telecom profit: call for probe' stated: 
The Victorian Employers Federation yesterday called for a public inquiry into the operation of the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
It went on to say that Telecom had announced a profit of $67. lm and that it was estimated that if that rate of profit continued the Commission would have made a profit of $ 160m at the end of 12 months trading. As a businessman, I say that needs to be looked at. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications should look at the operation of the Commission and ensure that better services, more facilities and more telephones are made available to applicants. Business cannot be transacted without a telephone, and I have had the experience, as no doubt other members of the National Country Party have, of small businessmen communicating with me and saying that they want a telephone but are being denied a connection for the reasons that I have given. The Minister should get on to Telecom and ensure that its great profit is used to provide more telephone connections and better services at cheaper rates to business people and to the Australian community generally. 
-As I was saying,  Mr Speaker,  export markets could be affected seriously with a resultant effect on the viability of the cattle industry, on the producers connected with the industry, and on the economy generally. The economic effects of both brucellosis and tuberculosis can be placed into 3 main areas: Human health, farm productivity and threatened loss of export markets. We know only too well the stringent regulations which the United States Department of Agriculture placed on our abattoirs that were exporting beef to the United States of America. We know that we had to spend millions of dollars in updating our works and our cattle processing plants to see that disease-free meat was exported to the United States and, indeed, to other markets. 
Brucellosis in humans in mainly an occupational disease affecting veterinarians, farmers, meatworkers and others who are in frequent close contact with infected cattle. It is interesting to note that the number of cases in humans reported in recent years has been relatively small. As was mentioned by a previous  speaker  tonight, they numbered about 70 but there would be many more cases not notified. Twelve cases were found to be due to infected milk, IS cases involved meatworkers, and others working in infected premises were infected mainly for reasons unknown We have to protect our great export beef industry. If we are going to protect it we have to see that our meat is disease proof. All our markets in the United States of America, Japan and Canada desire these precautions to be taken. I feel that this Livestock Slaughter Levy Amendment BUI will aid considerably the eradication of tuberculosis and brucellosis. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
BUI read a second time. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. When legislation was brought down, dividing the Postmaster-General's Department into 2 separate sections, namely, the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission, were the 2 basic reasons given for it the improvement of service and greater efficiency? As neither of these 2 factors appears to have eventuated will the Minister consider further examination of the position? Will he also convey to the executives of these commissions that they still have a responsibility to this Parliament? 
I rise to support the 2 Bills that are being debated- the Livestock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill and the Livestock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Bill. The national brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign was commenced in 1970. At that time the Commonwealth Government's contribution was by way of direct grants to the various States out of Consolidated Revenue. The previous Government introduced the meat export charge legislation which, in the case of exports of beef and veal, raised 0.6c per lb for recoupment of the Commonwealth Government's contribution to this campaign. As honourable members know, that legislation was rescinded by this Government some little time ago to help the Australian beef exporters and producers to get back into the overseas markets, because in many instances they had been priced out of those markets by the actions of the previous Government. 
The purpose of these 2 Bills is to provide for the introduction of a further component to the livestock levy of $1 per head of cattle slaughtered on and after 1 July this year and to establish a National Cattle Disease Eradication Trust Account into which moneys raised through the additional slaughter levy imposed by the Livestock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill 1976 will be paid. The only national cattle disease eradication campaign at present in operation is for brucellosis and tuberculosis. It has been stressed that the brucellosis and tuberculosis campaign is the only one that will be financed in this way. When we look at the Bill we find that, wisely, provision has been made to take care of other diseases that could occur in our cattle industry. Wider powers have been given to finance eradication of other cattle diseases should they occur. This is extremely important, because in our great cattle industry there are other exotic diseases which could occur in the herds. 
Brucellosis is a highly contagious disease causing abortion in cattle. This disease reduces productivity in the beef and dairy industries and is transmittable to humans. Evidence clearly shows that if brucellosis is not eradicated from Australian cattle there is a danger that imports of Australian beef and dairy products could be banned in other countries. Loss of those markets by beef and dairy producers could cause serious disruption to our economy. It could cause the producers of this country to face serious financial difficulties- more serious than they are facing at the present time with depressed prices and many of them being forced off their properties. Over the last 2 years the cattle industry has been in a very serious economic state. I think all members of this House realise that we have come from a very affluent situation 3 or 4 years ago to the point where cattle producers are finding it extremely difficult to carry on. 
The eradication of brucellosis involves vaccination followed by test and slaughter programs. Tuberculosis causes wasting and death in cattle and is transmissible to humans. Its economic consequences are similar to those of brucellosis. Export markets could be seriously affected with a resultant effect on the viability of our great cattle industry. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I ask: Has the Government had the New Zealand natural disaster insurance scheme checked out? Has this scheme been operating in New Zealand since 1944 and is it known as the Earthquake and War Damage Act? Is the premium a very minimal amount and has the scheme faced up to many disasters, such as earthquakes, storms, floods, fires, land slip damage and so on? Has it met those disasters financially and does it have a large credit surplus in its funds at the present time? Can the Treasurer inform the House whether this scheme could be operated successfully in Australia to cover such disasters as the Darwin cyclone, the Tasmanian fires, the Brisbane flood and many other floods throughout the nation? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Have many representations been made for an increase in the allowance deductible for taxation purposes in respect of council and water rates. 
Is the present allowable tax deduction limit of $300 unreal under present rating and valuation systems. 
Can he say whether this is causing concern and problems to ratepayers. 
Will he investigate the situation with a view to making the limit for taxation purposes more in line with realistic figures. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What amount of foreign aid is being given by the Australian Government and which countries are being assisted. 
What sum is being made available in cash, and what is the amount of food product assistance. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has a recent survey indicated that mail deliveries arc too slow. 
Is it a fact that 24 per cent of the people recently interviewed found postal services totally inadequate. 
Is New South Wales still behind on the percentage of mail delivered on time. 
-I ask the Minister for Health: Is there a very serious shortage of influenza vaccine throughout Australia? Is this shortage very severe in the city of Maitland, the fifth largest city in New South Wales? Can the Minister inform the House of the position with regard to the supply of flu vaccine? When is it likely to become readily available? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that approximately 17.2 per cent of the deaths in Australia are caused by cancer. 
If so, is this matter causing him considerable concern. 
Has the Government cut down on its funding for the provision of adequate cancer research. 
What is the present position with regard to Government financial assistance in this most important field. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has limited private practice under Medibank caused radiotherapists to resign from hospitals. 
If so, has this action made it difficult to attract radiologists into hospital work, and is this causing great concern as radiotherapists use radiation to treat cancer and other diseases, and radiologists use X-ray to diagnose a condition. 
If the position is as stated, will he urgently investigate the situation with a view to overcoming this serious medical problem. 
asked the Minister Representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) What research is being carried out at the present time into solar energy. 
What funds are being made available by the Government for this research. 
What progress is being made in the development of this source of energy. 
I support this Bill for an Act to amend the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act of 1 974. 1 am fortunate to be following the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  who spent some time working in the Department of Trade and Industry and who has had considerable experience with this particular matter. We are fortunate to have him in this chamber to give an exposition of the workings of this organisation during his sojourn in that Department. 
I am sure he will be. The business of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation, known as EFIC, is the encouragement of trade and commerce with other countries. Its operations extend to the provision of various types of insurance to Australian exporters and investors, to the giving of guarantees to banks and other financial institutions and to the making of loans in support of particular classes of transactions. The Corporation is a business undertaking operating on commercial lines. It is required to pay its own way. Figures that I will give shortly will indicate that this has certainly been the case, because it has traded profitably. Its facilities supplement rather than compete with other insurance and banking institutions. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the overseas investment insurance provisions of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act of 1974. The amendments proposed do not involve any change in the Government's policy concerning the overseas investment insurance scheme operated by EFIC. The amendments are essentially of an administrative character and are intended to streamline the administration of the scheme for the benefit of Australian investors in overseas countries. The scheme certainly has been of great benefit to our export industries, not only our great primary industries but also our secondary industries. It has been of benefit wherever there has been the need to insure a risk involved with the export of goods. The Bill includes additional categories of eligible investment in the definition of an 'overseas investment transaction' for the scheme. The Bill permits the provision of insurance for certain overseas investment transactions for which applications have been validly submitted or approved under the repealed Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-73 but which are currently ineligible for insurance cover under the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act 1974. 
The overseas investment insurance scheme has been a useful means of implementing the policy of successive Australian governments of encouraging direct Australian investment in developing countries, particularly those developing countries in our region. The majority of investments insured under the scheme are in developing countries. In recent years the countries of the ASEAN group have been the most important locations for investment cover under this scheme. This point has already been mentioned by previous speakers on this Bill. It is in this area where the greatest risks lie and where the greatest investments have been made. 
It is interesting to point out the historical background to this legislation. The scheme was established in 1965 and it provided insurance cover against non-commercial risks for investments by Australian manufacturers which maintained or expanded markets for Australian exports. Australia was the fourth country in the world to establish such a scheme. The scope of the scheme expanded in 1974 to provide cover for all direct investments overseas which assisted materially in the economic and social development of the host country and which it was in Australia's national interest to insure. 
I now turn to the role of the Corporation. The Corporation has acted merely as the Government's agent for investment insurance until the amendment of the scheme in 1974. 1 mentioned this point a few moments ago. Since then the Corporation, now known as EFIC, has been permitted to underwrite investment insurance along commercial lines on its own account, but with all applications being referred to the Minister for approval. The Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Amendment Bill 1976- the legislation we are now discussing- will change this procedure by allowing the Corporation to insure on its own commercial account within a policy approved by the Minister without the need to seek ministerial approval for each individual transaction. 
I would now like to say something about the type of risks that can be insured by EFIC. The Corporation can insure non-commercial risks such as expropriation, war damage and exchange transfer blockage. The Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Amendment Bill 1976 has provision for the Minister to approve other non-commercial risks to be specified by the Corporation. I now turn to the cover available under EFIC. The period of contracts extends from a minimum of 5 years to a maximum of 15 years. The maximum indemnity cover under this scheme is 90 per cent of any loss that may arise, that is, the investor is required to bear a minimum of 10 per cent of any loss involved. The premium rates are extremely favourable. The standard basic premium rate of 1 per cent- that is $1 per $100 of the value of investment insured- is charged irrespective of the country in which the investment is made. A concessional rate, being 80 per cent of the standard basic premium, is offered in respect of joint venture enterprises between Australian investors and nationals of the host country. 
I think it is only appropriate that at this stage we should look at the business written by this scheme up to date. We find that over 200 policies for investment insurance have been written to date by the Corporation. It is worth noting that 165 of these policies are still current involving a maximum contingent liability of $68.5m; 138 are written on government account and represent a maximum contingent liability of $63.6m; and 27 policies have been written by the Corporation on its own account- that is, since 1 February 1975 when permitted by amendments to the legislationinvolving a maximum contingent liability of $4.9m. About 80 per cent of the total liability is in respect of investments in ASEAN countries. This fact has been emphasised by other honourable members who have taken part in the debate tonight. The ASEAN countries have been the main ones associated with this legislation with investments in Indonesia representing about 50 per cent of the total liability being predominant. 
Let us look at the financial summary of EFIC since it has been established. It has a capital of some $8m, underwriting reserves of $9.4m, advances for export finance loans of $4m and other reserves of $4m making total reserves of $25.4m. The face value of insurance business to March 1976- this is the last date to which figures have been made available- is of the order of $ 1 ,46 1 m involving : contingent liabilities of $ 1,022m to the same period. Claims paid over a 9-month period during 1975-76 amounted to $1.5m of which recoveries amounted to $0.6m. I understand from a member of the department concerned that a loss of some $378,000 was sustained. I might add that when a loss is sustained under this scheme it is of a fairly substantial nature. The premium income over a period of 9 months for 1975-76 was $2.3m. It is pleasing to note that in the 1974-75 period the Corporation made a profit of $ 1.5m. 
The Corporation has done a very good job for Australian exporters since it was established. It has helped overseas countries to purchase our products. It has also helped our exporters in that they know they can insure against any losses which may be involved owing to the factors that I have enumerated. I have much pleasure in supporting the legislation which I believe meets with the acclaim of all members on both sides of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Have investigations been made into the suggestion that a rate be established for local delivery to box numbers; if so, what stage has been reached. 
Have Post Office officials stated that this system could be introduced with considerable savings to businesses and private persons. 
Would this factor increase business to the Postal Commission and stop local personal delivery. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Anti-Tuberculosis Program in Australia will cease on 3 1 December 1976. 
Has the program been of great service in locating, treating, and eradicating this dreaded disease. 
Were 382 000 X-rays carried out in New South Wales during 1 975 and did these result in active tuberculosis sufferers being located and 1400 other abnormalities and 1 49 cases of lung cancer being detected. 
Is tuberculosis a serious and contagious disease leaving little room for complacency from a health point of view. 
Is a relatively small amount of finance required for the anti-tuberculosis program. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware that there has been a shortage of refrigerated cargo space available for the carriage of meat to Japan? Does the Minister realise that this shortage is causing the delay in the filling of important contracts on the Japanese market? Can the Minister give the House any information as to the reasons for the shortage? What is being done to overcome the situation? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has a considerable number of representations been made concerning excessive charges now operating for country mail bag services. 
Have charges been increased considerably to $15 per year for 3 day week services and $60 per year for 5 day week services. 
Has a considerable number of cancellations taken place in mail bag services and are mail contractors faced with additional servicing and delivery work. 
Has the mail bag problem been investigated; if so, can he say if the charges for these services will be reduced to a more reasonable sum. 
-I rise to speak very briefly tonight in the time available to me about canned meat as a foreign aid item. This issue has received considerable attention by the interested canners and by the interested primary producers and meat producers, particularly in regard to providing this commodity for Australia's foreign aid program. I understand that preliminary discussions held between these people and officers of the Department of Primary Industry have revealed that, although Australia has previously indicated to the World Food Program of the Food and Agricultural Organisation in Rome Australia's ability to include canned meat in its pledges, this proposal has been received with an apathetic attitude and that is where the matter stopped. 
Because of the importance of the proposal both to the Australian livestock industry and to the meat canning industry, one of the top executives of the National Meat Canners Association recently visited Rome. In company with Australian embassy officials, that executive had discussions with officials of the World Food Program. This visit proved most successful. The officers indicated that the usage of canned meat could feasibly be increased from 5000 tonnes per annum, to say 15 000 tonnes per annum provided it was included in a program running from 3 years to 5 years. The acceptability of canned meats as an aid commodity item was recognised by the Food and Agricultural Organisation. The type of canned meat most suitable for inclusion in the World Food Program- it could reasonably be assumed that this would apply also to other avenues of aid- is beef luncheon meat with cereal and with a beef content of 70 per cent. In simple terms, on current cost indications, it could be expected that the f.o.b. cost to the Government would be in the vicinity of $lm per 1000 tonnes of product. 
It is appropriate to mention that during the discussions in Rome the point made by the Australian officials and accepted by the World Food Program officials was that canned meat was the only practical way of giving meat as an aid item and that, whilst meat protein costs 4 times as much as wheat protein, meat protein contains 5.7 times as much lycine, one of the essential amino acids, as wheat protein. Therefore a combination of the 2 products represents an excellent nutritional package. Those interested in the industry believe this point to be most significant, bearing in mind the current problems concerning wheat production. 
At a time when there is an over-supply of both cattle and canning capacity, and bearing in mind the recently announced increase in total aid of $49m to $400m per annum, it would appear to be to Australia's advantage to make an increased commitment to supply canned meat under its contributions to all foreign aid programs. It is possible that a stockpiling of product to cover future commitments could be a worthy consideration. The benefits to the Australian meat and livestock industries in general would far outweigh any negative considerations. 
I hope that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  supports this proposition because it could help the depressed cattle producers at the present time and at the same time help the canning industry. I commend this proposition to the attention of the Minister. 
-I rise to support the Budget brought down by the Government. In my parliamentary career I have never known of a Budget brought down by any government in this country that has not been criticised. This Budget, which is designed to control inflation, has been received extremely well across Australia. This afternoon the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who is the shadow Treasurer, waved a lot of papers condemning the Budget. I can just as easily wave a lot of papers praising the Budget. I have no doubt that the Budget will achieve results. They will not come about immediately, but they will certainly come about in the next 6 months. The Budget has my full support and that of my colleagues. 
The Budget outlays in 1976-77 have been estimated to total $24 billion, which represents an increase of 1 1.3 per cent over the actual outlays in 1975-76. The increase in 1975-76 was almost 23 per cent and in the year before that it was 46 per cent. So although the total amount of the Budget has been increased, it has been increased only at the rate of 1 1.3 per cent. The outlays in the last 4 Budgets have been $12 billion, $16 billion, $21 billion and this one of $24 billion. When one looks at the Budget Papers one finds that the main items of expenditure are education $2,204m, which represents an increase of 15.3 per cent on the 1975-76 expenditure; social services $6, 187m, which represents 25 per cent of the total outlay; defence $2, 178m; and payments to the States during 1976-77 of $3,7 16m, which is 21 per cent more than the payments in 1975-76. The expenditure on health is to be $2,908m. Of course, the greatest part of the expenditure in this field is to be on Medibank, which has been estimated to cost $1,61 2m. When it was first mentioned in this House it was to cost something like $309m in its first year of operation and more subsequently. The expenditure is now to be to the order of $1,6 12m. Payments to the States for housing are to total $375m, which represents an increase of $ 10.4m on last year's payments. 
It has been mentioned by various speakers on this side of the chamber that one of the greatest achievements in the social security field has been the introduction of the family allowances scheme. This scheme will be of great benefit to families throughout the nation. Indeed, the family life of this country is one of the most important aspects to consider. Encouragement is being given to families. The social security and welfare provisions in the Budget follow the major restructuring and improvement of the family allowances scheme. The rates of the family allowances have been substantially increased, as has been announced, but I think it is worth my while reading repeating them tonight. The rate for the first child is $3.50 a week; for the second child $5 a week; for the third child $6 a week; for the fourth child $6 a week; for the fifth child $7 a week; for the sixth child $7 a week; and for the seventh and later children $7 a week. An allowance of $5 has been provided for children in institutions. Most of us have institutions in our electorate in which children without a mother or father are cared for. This increase will be of assistance to the institutions caring for those children. That the Government is one that has regard for the social welfare of the nation has been proved by the legislation that it intends to bring down and that has been provided for in the Budget. 
Honourable members opposite have endeavoured to criticise the level of unemployment, which is running at a very high rate at the moment. It must be remembered that when we took office from the Australian Labor Party we were faced with increasing unemployment. At the present time 270 286 people are unemployed, which represents 4.4 per cent of the Auistralian work force. We have to make every effort to arrest this increase in unemployment. However, I would challenge those figures. I am in favour of the proposition getting people back to work and of creating job opportunities, but I feel sure that if these figures were properly examined we would find that many of those people who are registered as unemployed in fact have 2 jobs. Indeed, I could give many instances throughout my own area of men working in one industry during the day and working as barmen in various clubs at night. 
That is right. I very much query those figures. I think that if that factor were taken into consideration the figures for unemployment would be considerably lower. The Opposition, in summing up the economic statistics, has painted a picture of gloom. The Treasury sets out quite clearly in its latest paper its summary of the economic statistics. It believes that the only thing that militates against the present economic situation is unemployment. It says that real consumer demand has continued to grow; dwelling approvals increased in June and a further small decline in private approvals was more than offset by a lift in government approvals; the value of non-residential building approvals regained in the June quarter the dollar level of a year ago; private approvals were substantially higher; monetary conditions eased in July and there were record subscriptions to the July loans; the number of unemployed registered increased again in July; and exports reached a new record level in July. So much for the economic situation as it is set out by the Treasury, which is non-political. So the figures can most certainly be relied upon. 
The great rural industries of Australia are having tremendous problems in getting their produce away from the various ports around Australia. That is seriously affecting our great wool industry which, depressed though it is and with prices being as low as they are, had, up to 31 May, brought into this country $846m. Wheat had brought in $838m, and meat had brought in $557m. What do we find? When we try to get these valuable Australian exports away we find that the unions which control the shipping at our various seaports go out on strike. We have to pay demurrage, and we lose markets and lose business because of the action of the unions. Only a week ago a question was addressed to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  concerning the problems being experienced by our agricultural exporters at the various ports. This is what he had to say in reply: . . . since 1 May there have been 83 days lost in Melbourne - 
This is related to the loading of meat only- 1 1 days lost in Brisbane and 30 days lost in Sydney, due to industrial disputes. 
What the trade union leaders who lead these strikes do not seem to understand is that they are threatening the jobs of many of their fellow workers throughout the community. It really is a disgrace that so many stoppages have occurred and have affected the carriage of meat at a time when the meat industry is going through a difficult period. It is essential that the trade union movement in this country gets some sanity amongst its leadership so that we can get on with the job of exporting our great primary products. 
A lot has been said in this debate about the coal levy. I represent an electorate in the Hunter Valley area which is steeped in the coal industry. There are mines right through that valley. When the Labor Government brought in a tax of $6 per tonne on top quality coal and $2 per tonne on lower grade quality coal it put a dampener on the industry in that valley. Some of the mines which were producing the lower type of coal practically went out of business because of the levy of $2 per tonne which was placed on the lower grade coal. The reduction of that levy by this Government to $4.50 per tonne for top quality coal and $ 1 .50 per tonne for lower quality coal has given a boost to the coal mining industry in Australia. The industry brings in a huge revenue to the country as do our great primary industries. Up until 3 1 Maythe date to which the latest figures are availablecoal had brought in to Australia $822m. The reduction in the export levy has given the coal industry a shot in the arm. It will be of benefit to Australia and to the work force. It will provide more employment. It will get rid of a lot of the unemployment which we inherited when we took over from the former government. 
We cannot live without profits. What is wrong with profits? The honourable member likes profits. 
I have read a lot of things, but I believe in profit. The electorate of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  adjoins my electorate. We are good mates. We are both interested in the development of the coal mining industry. Local government will get a shot in the arm despite what opponents say. The sum of $140m will be sent out across Australia to local government. This amount will be distributed by the departments of local government in the various States which best know the needs of the local government councils in those States. This money should be made available to the shire or town clerks prior to their budgetary considerations. This has never happened before. I know that the 
Commonwealth Grants Commission has handed out grants to local government and various State commissions have handed out grants but the local government bodies concerned have never known what amount they were likely to get. Under this system they will know the amount of money they will get. The shire and town clerks will be able to work out their budgets accordingly. 
A while ago I mentioned housing. This is an important matter in this country. I am pleased to see that this Government has made available $375m to the States under the home ownership program. I am a great supporter of the home ownership program because the money is made available by the Federal Government to the States for allocation to low income earners at 5 per cent interest. Any young married couple who are successful in getting a home ownership loan under this scheme have every opportunity of meeting the payments and of becoming home owners. I know the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson),  who is in the Chair, has a new scheme under way. I hope the new scheme will be successful and will help to overcome the housing shortage in this country which the previous Government did nothing about. This year in overseas aid $400m has been allocated. This is a 14.6 per cent increase on the 1975-76 amount. We are receiving criticism from organisations that we are not making sufficient money available under the overseas aid program. We are. The amount has increased by 14.6 per cent and as mentioned in the House by me during the adjournment debate the other night, a considerable portion of these funds should be spent on meat protein. 
-No, never mind about dung meat. This is fair dinkum meat full of protein. This will help us get rid of the large cattle numbers in Australia. 
The Government's policy in regard to the mining industry will revitalise that industry. As a member of the Government members Trade and Resources Committee, I had the pleasure a few weeks ago of visiting the great mining projects in Australia. We visited the enterprises of the Kambalda nickel company and the Alcoa aluminium company. 
As my colleague said, it was an excellent committee. They were a good lot of fellows on it and we learnt a lot on that trip. We learnt that unemployment in Australia could be considerably reduced if our young people would go to Western Australia and work in the mining industry where conditions are excellent. Pay is more than adequate. People usually work for five or six weeks, get a bank balance of $600 or $700 and then clear out. Most of the rnining companies that we visited had a turnover of anything from 120 per cent to 150 per cent per annum. The Government's policy, as announced in the Budget, will certainly give an impetus to the mining industry in this country. Under the former Labor Government, the mining companies never knew where they stood from day to day. But our policy as enunciated in the Budget will be a shot in the arm to the mining industry right across the board. It will affect coal mining, gold mining, aluminium, uranium, bauxite and iron. Our rnining POliCY will be of great benefit to this nation. We were greatly impressed on that tour by the mining companies' acknowledgment of their responsibilities to restore the land to its natural condition after the minerals had been removed. At the Alcoa venture at Pinjara, for instance, we found that as the bauxite was gouged out of the ground bulldozers were filling in the hole. That company had a special division for the planting of trees. So the ecologists have nothing to fear from the mining companies in Australia. They are responsible people who are restoring the earth to its natural state. 
I suppose they would have to kick in to Labor campaign funds, otherwise the unions would strike on them and we would all be in trouble. I refer now to our great rural industries. The cattle industry in Australia is in serious trouble. We know what is going on in Victoria. Unfortunately with the drought there farmers are killing beasts because they have not got the fodder with which to feed them. This is indeed a tragedy. It has been mentioned in this House that possibly some of the cattle now being killed off could be made available to the organisation known as 'For Those Who Have Less'.  Mr Len  Reid who sat in this chamber is the main proponent of this proposition. In answer to a question today, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  undertook to have this matter investigated. This could be a way of getting our cattle out of the country and of helping undernourished nations. 
This Government has also helped the great wool industry of this country. I cited figures earlier in my speech which indicated that although wool has been a depressed commodity -the price has been down- this Government has had faith in wool. Our Minister for Primary 
Industry has been able to raise the floor price from 206c a kilo to 234c a kilo for the 1 976 selling season. As I indicated earlier, even at depressed prices, as at 31 March wool had brought into Australia $846m in export income. So this is an industry that we cannot allow to fail. We have to give it support and our Minister for Primary Industry, backed by the Government, has done just that. It has given faith to Australian woolgrowers. We have also given assistance to the dairy industry. The Minister for Primary Industry, through the Government, has been able to increase the guaranteed price for powdered milk to $300 a ton. It has been a pleasure for me to take part in this debate and to support the Budget. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-I rise tonight to speak about a question asked by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who is in the House tonight. The question related to the export of cattle to the subcontinent of India under the scheme proposed by the organisation known as For Those Who Have Less. It would appear that some clarification is needed in regard to the scheme submitted by  Mr Len  Reid, who is the  chairman  of the organisation. Firstly, only good productive animals will be sent. From the very inception of its gift consignments the organisation has always maintained certain standards of production. Secondly, the farmers would be paid on values pertaining to today's markets for such animals. That would approximate an average of $100 to $120 per head according to breed and age. Transportation and marshalling costs would bring the total amount per animal to $500 landed on the subcontinent. 
It would be the suggestion of the For Those Who Have Less organisation that one charter flight per week be arranged, which would be able to carry approximately 200 head. Owing to climatic conditions that would be desirable only between the months of October and February. Therefore it could be envisaged that during that period some 5000 cattle could be flown in for the cost of $A2.5m. Those cows and heifers would be sent only to farming co-operatives and government farms which have the facilities and farm management to ensure their success. In that regard the organisation would work with the organisation called Action For Food Production, which is a large Indian non-government agency and which has the technical and administrative ability to handle large numbers of animals from Australia. Volunteer staff from the Society would be responsible for marshalling at this end. It would handle the quarantine requirements and so on, and its members personally would supervise the distribution of the cattle at their destination. The organisation has trained livestock specialists who are continually checking out its projects throughout the sub-continent and can ensure the success of such a program. Indeed, I have personally seen these projects in Bangladesh and in the sub-continent countries. There is no doubt that they are well supervised indeed. 
Should some initiative be taken by the Commonwealth Government to send these stock to the Indian sub-continent it would provide an immediate market for the farmer and restore confidence in the dairying industry. The present idea of paying a subsidy of $10 to slaughter an unwanted animal would appear to be a negative approach. By sending some of the more productive cattle to these countries, Australia could well become the leader of an international effort to restore social equality, stability and justice in a hungry world and help to bridge the enormous gap which divides the nations of the world. 
The alternative is that we do nothing- continue to subsidise cattle shoots and leave our more productive cattle, which are surplus to requirements, to die in the paddocks because it is uneconomical for the farmer to feed them. That, of course, does not help anyone. It does not help the farmer who has no outlet for his stock or even one of the 10 000 children who starve to death every day on the sub-continent because they have no milk to drink. This organisation called For Those Who Have Less has received funds from Germany, Canada, America and Ireland to meet the transportation costs on 500 head of cattle to India, which indicates that the people in those countries are more concerned about our surplus cattle than we are in Australia. If we took action along the lines I have just mentioned it would help the cattle producers in this country and at the same time help the starving millions on the sub-continent of India. I commend the suggestion, as presented, to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I direct a question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade. I ask: Did the Minister during his recent visit to Europe raise the question of the ban on imports of Australian beef by the European Economic Community? Is there any sign of the European Economic Community's re-opening its doors to Australian beef? What other markets, if any, show promise for Australian producers? 
-Over the past 3 years there have been many strikes in the petroleum industry on the eastern seaboard paralysing industry and causing undue hardship to everyone in the community. One such strike, which occurred 18 months ago during the school holidays, left many parents and children stranded in country centres. They had great difficulty in getting back to their homes. Transport, industry and the farming community have been seriously affected by these strikesstrikes which seem always to occur at times when the most inconvenience will be caused to industry and members of the public. We have such a strike on our hands at the moment in New South Wales. This week more than 400 production employees walked off the job at 3 oil refineries in Sydney. They are the refinery of Australian Oil Refining Pty Ltd at Kurnell, the Australian Oil Refining Pty Ltd lubricating oil refinery at Kurnell and the Total Refineries Australia Limited refinery at Matraville. AOR produces two-thirds of the petrol used in New South Wales. The other one-third is refined by the Shell Company of Australia at the Clyde refinery. So honourable members can see just what a paralysing effect this strike, which involves the members of the Australian Workers Union, will cause in New South Wales. The dispute concerns State and Federal awards. At the present time, the AWU workers at the refinery work under the State award. The employers are endeavouring to have them covered by a Federal award. There is no need for them to go on strike. Why do not they take the action to industrial arbitration and settle the matter there without causing inconvenience to the public, to industry and to the whole state of New South Wales? 
Before leaving the refineries, the striking operators told the management that the only basis of settlement of the dispute would be for the oil companies to withdraw their application for a Federal award and to agree to a return to State jurisdiction. When will the unions connected with the petroleum industry get some sense and stop this irresponsible strike action which is paralysing industry in New South Wales? Secondary industries, transport industries and primary industries are all seriously affected. It is high time that some responsible people took hold of these unions and gave service to New South Wales to stop the paralysing effect of such strikes. 
Will the Minister for Health inform the House whether any studies are being undertaken into radiological services in Australia? Is the Government concerned about the overall costs of radiological services? 
-I rise to speak in support of the estimates for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs which this year provide for an expenditure of $32,975,000 compared with an actual expenditure of $27,130,458 in the last financial year. When we look at the estimates for the Department we find that the increased expenditure will be incurred mainly with the assisted migration program- passage and associated costs. An appropriation of $1 1,088,000 is being provided for this program this year against an expenditure of $7,283,713 last year. The Government has approved an increase of approximately 20 000 migrants to bring the total intake to 70 000 in the migration program for the 1976-77 financial year. This represents an increase of approximately 40 per cent in the number of migrants coming to Australia. The Government has made it evident that the figure should be flexible so it can be altered in line with economic conditions. 
Figures which I received today from the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library show that in 1973-74 the total number of migrants was 112 712, in 1974-75 it was 89 147, a considerable reduction, and for the 9 months ended March 1976 it was 40 558. It is important and interesting to find out where these migrants come from. Each year the main bulk has come from the United Kingdom and Ireland- 30 per cent to 40 per cent. In the 9 months ended March this year 13 823 of the total of 40 558 migrants were from the United Kingdom and Ireland. The number from Greece was 1188, from the Lebanon 1067, from New Zealand 2186, and from Yugoslavia 1416. I ask for permission to have these figures incorporated in  Hansard.  When the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  was at the table I showed them to him. He agreed to their incorporation in  Hansard. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="101131197610052_62_2.jpg"></graphic>

-The Government is completely opposed to increasing the migrant intake to keep up the number of people coming to Australia. It is unfair and unjust both to migrants and to Australians to bring out large numbers of people when unemployment is at such high levels after 3 years of Labor administration. However, in the long term, to develop Australia, surely there is no case for maintaining indefinitely the excessively low level of migrant intake that there has been this financial year. It takes 6 to 9 months from a change in policy to the reflection of the change in the number of migrant arrivals. We must plan now if it is decided to aim at an increased intake with effect from the last quarter of the present financial year. It must be remembered that there is an annual outflow of 20 000 to 30 000 persons a year from Australia. This seriously affects the net increase in population of this country. Those figures are staggering, but they are true. Between 20 000 and 30 000 people leave this country each year. 
Recently the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  announced that following consultation with the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations a revised list of occupations for persons eligible for migrant entry into Australia had been approved. This approved occupational list is kept under continual review and is revised every 3 months. The unemployment situation varies considerably from State to State. There were shortages of workers in some occupations in Australia and in particular regions. By filling these positions through migration additional jobs could be created. Occupations in which there was an oversupply situation were deleted from the list. This indicates quite clearly that there is concern for those who are unemployed. Migrants will not be taking over positions which unemployed people could fill. Migrants, especially during the early period of settlement, add significantly to the demand for goods and services, thus helping to create employment. They may have a greater impact on stimulating demand for labour than on increasing its supply. This Government's policy definitely ensures that migrants will not be permitted to settle in Australia if they face the prospect of unemployment or if they take up positions which could be filled by persons already in Australia. 
The emphasis is on family reunion which introduces a small number of people into the work force and on attracting people with qualifications and skills which are in short supply in Australia. The Government has taken these factors into consideration and has assessed that the intake would not add to unemployment. It is certainly true that Australia has a shortage of skilled labour. I quote from a recent edition of the  West Australian.  An article headed 'Plea Made For Skilled Migrants' states: 
Australia should start planning now for an increased intake of skilled migrants from Britain and Western Europe ', a leading employers spokesman said yesterday. 
This is just one of the newspaper articles on the skilled labour situation. 
A lot has been said during this debate about the Lebanese. There is no doubt that there are many skilled Lebanese who are willing to come to this country. Recently I had experiences of skilled Lebanese in the enginering field who are anxious to migrate to Australia. I have no doubt that the Minister and his Department are looking at these skilled workers with a view to getting them to this country as quickly as possible, particularly those who will join family units which are already well established here. This is an aspect which we must speed up. Furthermore, we are in a splendid position to screen the migrants. This is the greatest country in the world. It offers more opportunities for young people than most other countries do. So we should see that those people migrating from overseas countries should be screened very carefully. We should not allow into this country any leftist trouble makers who would disrupt the industries that we have established over the years. We must take some blame for allowing into Australia over the years this type of migrant who has infiltrated our trade union movement and who is today causing disruption to industry in this country. 
If I could be critical of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, it is in the area in which relatives want to migrate to this country from England. I have had several instances in my electorate of young people from Australia having gone to England, having married there and wanting to come back to Australia. Considerable delay has taken place before their re-entry into this country. They have employment, and they can settle down. I ask the Minister to see what can be done to speed up immigration to Australia in these cases. We want them here. They are skilled people. I ask the Minister whether their entry into this country could be speeded up. 
I rise to support the estimates for the Department of National Resources. There is a provision of $47,647,000 this year as against an expenditure last year of $45,547,876. The largest item of expenditure relates to running expenses under the Atomic Energy Act and amounts to $ 19,668,000 as compared with an expenditure of $18,367,278 last year. The development of our uranium resources is of vital importance to Australia and will be to our economy what petroleum has meant to the Arab nations. We in Australia face a grave energy crisis. If new discoveries of petroleum are not made in the immediate future our economy will be seriously affected. To bring supplies of petroleum from overseas increases our costs in Australia right across the board and depletes our overseas balance of trade. We have a valuable mineral ore in this country in uranium, which can solve our energy problem and at the same time provide valuable export earnings. There is considerable opposition to the rnining of uranium. This is unfortunate. This opposition is being extended by the Friends of the Earth and of course by the left wing unions. 
Nuclear power is here to stay, and sane thinking people should realise this fact. In various parts of the world nuclear power is already being used to provide power generation. It is being used in Great Britain, where 15 per cent of the power generation comes from this source, the United States of America, Canada, West Germany and Japan. It is a particularly safe method of producing power. When we look at the records of these countries we find that there has been no loss of life. If we look at the record in Australia we find that uranium mining was carried out successfully and safely in Australia from 1954 to 1971. It is interesting to note the amount of ore treated during that period. The figures were: Rum Jungle, 863 000 tonnes; United Uranium, 128 000 tonnes; South Alligator, 13 000 tonnes; Mary Kathleen, 2 947 000 tonnes- that mine is now operating again; and Radium Hill and Port Pirie, 970 000 tonnes. 
The question to be asked is: Why should uranium mining be less safe now than it was then? We must realise that uranium is being mined on an increasing scale in overseas countries, including the United States, Canada, South Africa, Niger, France, Gabon, and the Soviet Union. If it is unsafe, why do these nations mine it? Research has shown that 160 nuclear power stations are already operating, and there has not been a single death or injury to the public at large as a result of the operation of those stations. The United Kingdom, the United States, Russia, France, Canada, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, West Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Holland, Pakistan, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and many other countries are investing massively in nuclear power because they realise that this is the power of the future, particularly because of the drain on petroleum resources throughout the world. Even the Arab nations, including Bahrain and the Persian Gulf countries, fear that in the next 10 years their petroleum resources will be exhausted. That is why nuclear power is so important Currently 1 80 new nuclear power stations are being built and 160 stations are on order. It is estimated that by the year 2000, 50 per cent of all electricity generated in the world will come from nuclear power stations. 
Here again it is reasonable to ask: Can all these governments and their advisers be wrong about the safety of nuclear power? It is not essential to have nuclear power stations to produce a nuclear weapons capability. All nations have access to uranium ores from the ever growing mining industry or from sea water. Separation processes can be used to acquire weapons material from these sources. The denying of access to Australian uranium therefore can have no effect on the spread of nuclear weapons. Many people in politics and in the community in Australia may be of the opinion that a few overseas shareholders would benefit from Australian uranium mining. This is absurd and utter rubbish. People of the world, both poor and wealthy, require more and more power to improve their standards of living. The demand comes from them, and a splendid example of this is the rapid increase in the consumption of electrical energy all over the world. Nations such as Australia which have far more uranium than is required for their own energy needs have a duty to sell the excess to those less fortunate nations. If we do not sell our uranium we could be classed as being selfish and this could add to international tensions. 
By 1985 the Australian uranium industry will be capable of satisfying 20 per cent of the world market This could earn for Australia $3, 000m a year. Between 1976 and 1985 the uranium industry will spend $l,800m- that is on present-day values- and most of this money will be spent in Australia in providing employment and development particularly in our sparsely populated north. As a member of the Government trade and resources committee I had the pleasure recently of visiting the uranium resource in Western Australia and the Northern Territory. By 1985 nearly 10 000 employees could be working in the uranium industry and an estimated wage bill of $2m would be fed into the economy each week. This would create a demand for goods and services which would improve the economy and further increase employment. For the benefit of Australia let us get on with the job of developing, mining and selling uranium to the great benefit of this nation and its work force. We talk about unemployment. The mining of uranium in Australia will provide employment particularly in the sparsely populated areas, and this will create decentralisation. 
I rise to support the estimates for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. Before entering into my speech proper I would like to comment on some of the remarks that have been made by previous speakers. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  said that the rate of inflation in Australia is higher today than it was in 1975. That is not so. When the Liberal and Country Parties handed over government at the end of 1972 inflation was running at the rate of 6.8 per cent. In 1973 it rose to 9 per cent; in 1974 it rose to 14.6 per cent and in 1975 it rose to 17.8 per cent. It was one of the highest rates of inflation throughout the Western world. In 1976, under the present Liberal-National Country Party Government, it is down to 15.4 per cent, according to the latest figures available, although I understand that in fact it is now of the order of 12 per cent. The honourable member for Burke also mentioned the reports that are coming in from the Industries Assistance Commission. Who introduced this procedure? The former Labor Government did. The present Government has shown that it will not readily accept the IAC submissions, as is evidenced by the amount recommended for expenditure on the arts. This Government will sift the recommendations that come forward from this body. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  spoke about the dock workers from Newcastle. They work very close to my electorate. Many of them reside in the Newcastle suburbs of Beresfield and Woodberry, which is in my electorate. I feel that there is now a sense of responsibility on the part of the dock workers at Newcastle. The previous shop stewards were not responsible men but the present ones are responsible men. I would like to see the Newcastle State Dockyards given the opportunity of building some more ships. As the honourable member for Barton has said, members of the dockyard unions are here today in a responsible manner and are not causing any problems. I would like to see them given such an opportunity because I feel that, with the responsible shop stewards that they now have, they would give us productivity and do a good job of work. 
I have said it in the Press and on television. I am not afraid to say it. That is known in the north of New South Wales. It is known in my electorate. 
The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  said that he hopes the present Budget strategy will uplift the economy of this country. It is already doing that. The economy of this country is improving at the present time. The rate of inflation is down and confidence is being restored. The latest unemployment figures indicate that the economy is on the mend. I remind honourable members that this Government inherited from the previous Labor Administration the greatest number of unemployed in this country for many years. In 1974 there were 120 959 people unemployed, which represented 2.06 per cent of the work force. In 1975 there were 246 094 people unemployed, which represented 4. 1 5 per cent of the work force. That indicates that under the Labor Government the unemployment situation in Australia certainly worsened. We inherited this huge unemployment problem, and we have to use every endeavour to improve the situation. In 1974, under the Labor Administration, 266 998 unemployed persons were registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service. In 1975, the year in which Labor lost office, unemployment rose to 328 705. That was the situation the present LiberalCountry Party Government inherited from the previous Government. In 1976 unemployment was running at 264 000 and it is improving all the time. In my electorate, which is a very diversified one with a considerable number of industrial projects in the lower portion of the electorate, the unemployment figures are improving. They improved in August and again in September. I have the latest figures which show that unemployment has been reduced by over 200 people. 
I congratulate the staff of the Office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in the city of Maitland. It is doing a wonderful job and is making every effort to secure employment for young Australians. It has set up a special office with a special officer to deal with young people between the ages of 15 and 18 years who are unemployed, and it has been an outstanding success. It has been in operation for only approximately a fortnight but over 200 young people have availed themselves of this wonderful service and many of them have secured employment. So I congratulate the manager and his staff at the office of the Commonwealth Employment Service in Maitland for the wonderful job that they are doing there. 
This Government is doing all it possibly can to assist unemployed persons. It is good to see the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  sitting at the table. He is an indefatigable worker. He is giving his absolute best to improve the situation. The Government has introduced a scheme to pay $58 a week to employers for each unemployed person who is being trained, whether it is in the private or the public sector. This subsidy is considerably greater than any of the subsidies that are normally payable under the National Employment and Training scheme. Under the scheme applications are invited from young people, aged from 15 to 18 years, who left school in the preceding 12 months, who have been registered for employment with the CES for not less than a total of 6 months during this period and who are registered with the Service at the time they apply for training. This is a splendid scheme and it is now being availed of by these young people. I feel that as the months go by it will help materially in solving the unemployment problem. Another scheme which has been brought forward by this Minister and his Department provides assistance for people who have lost their employment in one area and have found employment in another State or in another area far away. Assistance is being given by this Government to help them to meet the cost of setting themselves up in their new employment. The assistance includes meeting the fares, up to the value of approved economy class public transport costs, for the journey for the applicant to travel to the new area for employment or training or interview; for the applicant and spouse, if any, to travel to the new area for one exploratory visit to examine living conditions and return home; for the applicant and or his family to move to take up residence in the new area; and if the applicant moves to employment ahead of his family to allow him or her return visits to the family. This is humane treatment. This assistance will be of tremendous value to people who have been displaced in one area but can secure employment in another area. Allowances for in-plant training and living away from home are to be increased under the National Employment and Training scheme. These schemes are proof positive of the efforts of this Government to assist people to get jobs. 
Under the former Whitlam Labor Government my electorate experienced very severe unemployment. It experienced unemployment because someone in that Government did not do his homework in regard to the introduction of a 25 per cent tariff cut right across the board in the textile industry. This industry employs 120 000 people in Australia and is mostly located in decentralised areas like Maitland, Wangaratta, Cessnock and other country areas. The people in those areas lost their jobs as a result of cheap Asian goods coming into Australia at a time when we had problems. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Air services in the north-west of New South Wales and the facilities available at Mascot airport are causing concern to Skyways Airlines Pty Ltd and to the passengers that use this air service. Skyways Airlines Pty Ltd operate a service from Goondiwindi to Gunnedah, Quirindi and Sydney and also from Wee Waa to Gunnedah, Quirindi and 
Sydney. Years ago these ports, particularly Gunnedah and Quirindi, were serviced by East West Airlines Ltd. East West Airlines pulled out of their service and Skyways Airlines approximately four to five years ago took over the service and have provided wonderful travel facilities for people residing in these areas. 
Skyways Airlines have been informed by the management of Trans-Australia Airlines in New South Wales that no longer will the airport facilities at TAA's terminal at Mascot be available to it. These facilities include booking facilities, lounge facilities and boarding facilities. Skyways' management has been asked to use flight facilities on the far eastern end of the airport. This will cause considerable problems for people using this service in making bookings, boarding aircraft and departing from Mascot airport. The present facilities are extremely good at the TAA terminal in which Skyways has an office. I cannot understand why this action has been taken. Apparently East West Airlines Ltd, which is a magnificent company, operating from the Tamworth airport a service to Sydney which I and other members of this Parliament frequently use, feels that Skyways Airlines Pty Ltd may be taking some of its passengers, because East West Airlines provides a car service from Gunnedah to Tamworth to take its passengers to catch a plane there. 
However, this is most unjust. It is unrealistic and it is unfair to Skyways Airlines Pty Ltd and those people using its splendid services. Representations have been made to the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  concerning this matter and his good officers have been requested to interview TAA and possibly the Department of Civil Aviation to see whether this decision can be reversed. If we are to sponsor and encourage private commuter air services in New South Wales they should be given every facility at Mascot for their aeroplanes and for their passengers. Skyways Airlines Pty Ltd would have its aircraft at Mascot airport in the unloading and loading area for no more than possibly half an hour a day. I do hope that commonsense and justice will prevail and that Skyways Airlines Pty Ltd will be able to use the facilities of TAA at Mascot airport. 
-I rise to support the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department. When we look at the record for the first 12 months of operation of the Australian Postal Commission we find that in its operations it had a trading surplus of approximately $32m. This resulted in part from improved efficiency and better than expected business, economic and industrial conditions. Since the change of government in Australia confidence has been restored and no doubt this has had a beneficial effect on the first year's operations of the Postal Commission. It is interesting to note how the Commission is going to dispose of this surplus. I understand that there are 3 ways in which it will be disposed of. Firstly, the capital borrowings of $3m made in 1975-76 will be repaid. Secondly, the subsidisation of 1976-77 rates on registered publications will not be needed while the present rates apply. This is very good because the rates of postage on registered publications have given us considerable problems as members of the Parliament. Thirdly, the application of the balance will be considered against progressive 1976-77 operating needs of the Commission. 
I should like to have seen this trading surplus applied to a reduction in the postal rates. We have the highest rate of postage in the world. As I mentioned, surely some of this surplus could have been applied to lower postage charges all round. Business and the public are having problems with a high postal rate and a very dear communications service. As a result the postage service is not being utilised in many instances. Postmasters in my electorate and in other areas in which I travel in Australia indicate to me that the volume of their business has fallen off by as much as 20 per cent. I agree with the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  that surely a local postal rate could be charged for letters being posted to post office boxes in cities and in country towns where all the sorters have to do is to sort the letters into a box. I know that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who is at the table has introduced certain reductions in this postal field but I feel that they are not big enough and that where letters are posted to box numbers consideration should be given to applying a lower postage rate. 
We are experiencing far too many strikes in the mail services of this country, and it would be fair to say that the mail services cannot be relied upon. Strikes frequently occur at the Redfern Mail Exchange, and I understand that at the present time over 5 million postal articles and thousands of parcels are held up at this centre. Employees at the exchange are on strike on far too many occasions, and I wonder whether some means of bypassing the exchange could be found and a better postal service achieved. 
When the matter was taken up with the postal workers union, one union official at the exchange said that the strikes were caused through lack of staff. That could be so, but it is impossible for honourable members and for the public to judge. The concern of the postal union for the alleged staff shortage is a great deal worse than the shortage itself. For poor service, one could substitute no service at all. If the union expects sympathy from other quarters it had better think again. It has a long and lamentable history of industrial trouble-making and of denying to the public the continuity of an essential service. The New South Wales union is at odds with its federal counterpart, which has ordered it to lift the bans, and in Melbourne yesterday the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission handed down exactly the same decision. It needs to be borne in mind that the duty of the Postal Commission is to run the service on businesslike lines and to keep charges to the public as low as possible. That is being made more difficult by the apparent reluctance of the postal workers to work overtime and also their insistence on higher staff levels. The New South Wales  president  of the union claims that it is part of the union's policy to have a showdown with the Government.  His  union is certainly provoking that showdown. 
It is interesting to learn that at 30 June the staff of the Postal Commission had decreased by 48 1, or 1 .5 per cent, to 32 598 employees. On the capital side, new post offices and works throughout Australia are to be programmed, and these are estimated to cost $10,503,000 in 1975-76. In my electorate of Paterson we have been battling to secure a new post office for the Beresfield area, which is growing very rapidly, and its neighbouring suburb of Woodberry. I am delighted to know that $2 10,000 has been provided in the estimates for a new post office at Beresfield to serve both Beresfield and Woodberry, which have a combined population of 7000 to 8000 people. It is good to know that capital works are still going on to provide post offices for this country. 
I should like to say a few words about the Australian Broadcasting Commission's performance in the Paterson electorate and the great difficulties being experienced by television viewers in the Hunter Valley due to the translator station which has been built just out of Aberdeen on Rossgoll Mountain. There is frequent interference with the service and poor television reception. As the Minister for Post and Telecommunications would know, I have made constant representations on this matter and the Department's engineers have investigated the problems associated with the poor television reception, particularly at Murrurundi, Merriwa and Cassilis. Up to the present time, nothing has been done to rectify the problem. The people have television sets and they expect a good television service. I ask the Minister to look at this matter to see whether some action could be taken to give the people of the area good television reception. 
In regard to the Telecommunications Commission, it has 37 million telephone services, a staff of 87 461 and a projected budget of $2, 100m. It is indeed a tremendous undertaking. There are still some problems with the installation of telephones throughout my area, but when the matter is raised with the engineers concerned we are advised that there is a shortage of cable and a shortage of staff. Again, I would ask the Minister to see whether these problems can be overcome and more telephone connections provided, because people in country areas are disadvantaged without the use of telephone services. It is pleasing to note that the Telecommunications Commission has increased the line distance installation from 8 kilometres to 12 kilometres, at a cost to the Commission. When the LiberalCountry Party was in government in 1 972 its policy was to connect telephones up to 1 5 miles from the local exchange. However, the new increase in the distance will save primary producers an average of $ 1 ,280 per person. 
-We on this side of the House support the Bill to amend the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Act 1975. It will reduce the export levy on high quality coking coal from $6 per tonne to $4.50 per tonne and will reduce the export duty on other coal from $2 per tonne to $1.50 per tonne. This reduction in coal export levies has the full support of members on this side of the House. It represents a confirmation of part of the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  It will be remembered by honourable members that this tax, in the first instance, was brought in by the former Labor Government in the Hayden Budget and was debated in this House in September 1975. It shook the coal mining industry. The levy brought in revenue from the period of the last Budget until 30 June 1976 the amount of $11 1.6m. Under the new legislation it is expected that with the lower coal export levy and with increased exports of coal an amount of $1 12m will flow into the Treasury. 
The Government's policy is to phase out the levy over 3 years. This Bill provides for the first instalments. When the previous Labor Government introduced the levy it had an immediate effect on production and on developments in the industry. There were many instances in which the export tax on lower grade coal severely cut into mine profits and in some cases caused a loss on operations. This was very evident in New South Wales and in my own electorate of Paterson. Many of the mines there had a very low profit from the export of this low grade coal and the export levy of $2 per tonne had a very serious effect on the profitability of operations. Indeed, it helped to create unemployment. Coal has topped the Australian export figures for the first time with a total of $973,910,000. Japan, our biggest customer, has received 22 624 105 tonnes valued at $798,720,000. This indicates that we are dependent on sales of our coal to Japan for volume business. It indicates also that we must make every effort to find markets in other parts of the world because to have all one's eggs in one basket is a serious situation. It is interesting also to note that the United Kingdom was the second biggest purchaser of Australia's coal. It purchased 2 637 758 tonnes valued at $51,267,000. Other  courtries such as Italy, Korea and the Netherlands purchased minor quantities of coal. We must surely seek other markets. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table of the export figures for Australian coal to the various markets as at 30 June. 
-Members of the National Country Party fully support the States Grants (Water Resources Amendment) Bill which provides financial assistance to the States in connection with the assessment of thenwater resources. Country members of the Parliament are well aware of the need to conserve water resources. We are, of course, vitally concerned with floods and droughts that occur from time to time and we know the great benefit to be derived from the conservation of Australia's water resources. There are 2 river systems in my electorate of Paterson. One is the Hunter River which rises in the Dividing Range and traverses the rich Hunter Valley, flowing out eventually into the sea at Newcastle. It is pleasing to note that on this river we have the wonderful Glenbawn Dam situated above Scone, which provides water all year round for irrigation, stock and domestic purposes. On the other river system, the Namoi River system which flows on the other side of the Dividing Range, there is another splendid dam, the Keepit Dam which provides water for the Namoi River for irrigation of cotton crops, pastoral crops and cereal crops. 
This Government is vitally concerned with furthering the program of water resources in Australia. A few weeks ago the New South Wales Grant (Namoi River Weirs) Bill was passed by this House. This provides for 4 weirs on the Namoi River to irrigate cotton and cereal crops. Only several weeks ago, on the Gwydir River in the north-west of New South Wales, the great Copeton Dam was officially opened. The Government provided a huge amount of money- I think it was over $20m- towards this conservation program on the Gwydir River. It is good to see our water resources being conserved in this manner. Country members feel that there should be far more dams and conservation schemes implemented throughout the countryside. 
The Bill provides for the continuation of assistance to the States in the conduct of co-ordinated programs for the assessment of the quantity and quality of water resources, both surface and underground. Assistance to the States was initiated by the States Grants (Water Resources) Act of 1964. This was the beginning of the scheme which we are debating today. The legislation was enacted as a result of recommendations made by the Australian Water Resources Council, which was established in 1962 by agreement between the Commonwealth and all State Governments. The Council was set up with the objective of providing a comprehensive assessment of Australian water resources on a continuing basis and the extension of measurement and research so that future planning can be carried out on a sound and scientific basis. The Council consists of Commonwealth and State Ministers with responsibility for water resources. Most States have a water conservation and irrigation commission. These would be the Ministers conferring with the Commonwealth in this Council. 
In a publication entitled 'Review of Australia's Water Resources' published in 1963, the Council explained the importance of making a comprehensive and continuing assessment of water resources on a national basis. It made 3 points: 
Data is necessary for the economic and safe design, operation and management of water control projects; Australia is the world 's driest continent. There is a real need to know the potential and limitations of water resources; and Water resources have a bearing on population growth, decentralisation of population and industry, increasing exports, improving standards of living and national defence. 
As I said earlier, these water resources have a bearing on irrigation of crops, the increase in cereal and cotton crops, dairying and pasture improvement. The work involved in water resources assessment is being carried out in close collaboration with the Bureau of Meteorology, which is making detailed assessments of rainfall distribution for the Water Resources Council. Country members of Parliament find that the advice provided by the Bureau of Meteorology is invaluable at all times. Indeed, in times of flood on the northern rivers of New South Wales, its information is extremely accurate. So, if the Bureau's information is accurate for flood purposes, it will be accurate for the purposes defined in the Bill. 
The Water Resources Council has appreciated that stream gauging could not be sufficiently comprehensive to embrace the whole continent. Many streams would remain ungauged. Honourable members who have travelled around Australia, as most country members do, would know that Australia is a huge continent with many streams and many untapped water resources to be investigated. The network of gauging stations could not provide data to enable more general assessments of catchment areas. To overcome this deficiency, the Australian Representative Basins Program has been devised by the Council. Under this Australiawide program up to 100 carefully selected representative catchments are being assessed in detail. Honourable members can readily see of what great value this information will be. From the data collected it will be possible to estimate the likely water resources in areas between catchments. The data recorded in each catchment includes climatic conditions, geology, soil types, topography and vegetation. Measurements are made of rainfall, stream flows, evaporation, humidity, solar radiation, groundwater storage and underground water movements. 
Since 1964, States Grants (Water Resources) Acts have provided assistance to the States for measurement of streams and underground water resources. The basis for assistance is a grant of an amount which a State spends over and above a base amount. For each State a maximum amount of grant is provided. Expenditure by a State up to twice the base amount attracts a grant equal to the excess over the base amount. Further expenditure by a State is funded on a dollar for dollar basis until the maximum amount of grant is payable. The amount of Commonwealth assistance provided in the Bill which we are now discussing, and available for each State, has been allocated in accordance with an agreement of the Australian Water Resources Council. Earlier Acts since 1964, covering successive 3-year periods, have provided total grants to the States of $3 1.4m over 12 years. These Acts are concerned with the measurement of discharge of rivers and investigation and measurement of underground water resources. During this period the number of river gauging stations has increased from 1450 to 2750, the measurement of surface water has increased by 40 per cent and underground measurement has increased by one-third. These figures are extremely interesting and indicate the progress that is being made in investigation in the water resources field. 
In 1974 the program of work for the measurement of water resources was expanded to embrace the assessment of the quality of surface and underground water. This broadening of the work being done is reflected in the Bill by defining 'assessment' to include measurement of flow and quantity, the examination of quality and the work of recording, arrangement, analysis or publication of information. The Bill makes available $6.658m for 1976-77 and enables the Commonwealth assistance to be maintained in real terms. The levels of assistance for the years 1977-78 and 1978-79 are to be determined before the commencement of these years. Schedule 1 of the Bill outlines the amounts payable to the various States for the assessment of surface water sources. Schedule 2 indicates the amounts payable for the assessment of underground water resources. We know the value of these investigations. We support the Bill in its entirety. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Trade Commissioners has Australia spread throughout the world. 
In what countries are these Commissioners situated, and what authority have they to negotiate sales of products of Australian primary and secondary industries. 
Do these Trade Commissioners make a valuable contribution to the development of Australia 's trade. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. Have Opposition members in the House frequently stated that economic conditions in Australia are - 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Does Skyways Airways Pty Ltd operate air services in New South Wales to Quirindi, Gunnedah, Wee Waa, Condobolin, West Wyalong, and to Goondiwindi in Queensland. 
Has this airline used the parking, booking and seating accommodation of the TAA facilities at Mascot Terminal. 
Has TAA notified Skyways Airways Pty Ltd that it will terminate the use of these facilities on 7 November 1976. 
As Masling Airways and Advance Aviation are still allowed the use of TAA facilities, is this action by TAA unjust, unfair and discriminatory. 
Will he investigate this situation with a view to Skyways Airways being allowed to continue to use TAA facilities. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Does a market exist in the United States of America for the sale of Australian lamb. 
Does lamb meat enter the United States free of tariff restrictions. 
What efforts are being made to promote sales in this market 
What is the present situation concerning lamb marketing to the United States. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services: 
1 ) Did the Whitiam Labor Government purchase over 900 P76 Leyland motor cars from Leyland Australia Limited during 1975; 
If so, was a number of these vehicles auctioned in Melbourne some weeks ago, and were they sold for $350 each; 
3 ) If so, what was the loss on the sale of these vehicles. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many Lebanese immigrants have arrived in Australia since hostilities commenced in Lebanon. 
Is it a fact that, at present, great pressure is being placed on migrant applicants to remain in Lebanon. 
If so, is this policy seriously affecting the migration of Lebanese who desire to enter Australia. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Have strikes on the waterfront seriously affected the export of coal, wheat, wool, meat, barley and sorghum. 
Are the overseas client countries greatly concerned at the delays taking place. 
) Has Australia lost business through these delays. 
What steps can be taken to minimise stoppages on the waterfront. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Have a number of projects assisted by the Australian Industry Development Corporation experienced financial problems and several made bankrupt. 
If so, how many assisted firms have gone into liquidation, and what was the amount of the loss to the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Did broadcasting station 2JJ between 12.20 and 1 2.30 a.m. on Wednesday, 10 November 1976, broadcast in a woman 's voice a filthy and degenerate narrative. 
If so, will he call for the tape of this episode and take the necessary action to stop such filth being broadcast to the Australian people. 
-I direct my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade. In view of reports of brighter prospects for the beef industry can the Minister indicate what level of exports the industry is likely to achieve this year and to what extent the benefits of higher sales are likely to flow through to the cattle producers? 
-On behalf of the National Country Party I wish to support Customs Tariff Validation Bill which proposes to validate the collection of duties in relation to S Customs TariffProposals. The five matters dealt with in the Bill are as follows: The removal of tariff quotas on galvanised sheets and the removal of temporary duty on monochrome television sets; the Industries Assistance Commission recommendations on Multilateral Trade Negotiations (Tropical Products) and agricultural tractors- this matter is of great importance to primary industry in this country and I will devote the major part of my time to it- Industries Assistance Commission recommendations on Multilateral Trade Negotiations (General Tariff Reductions- Devaluation); Papua New GuineaAustralia Trade and Commercial Relations Agreement; and IAC recommendations on calcium carbide, copper foil, primary shapes produced by rolling, drawing, extruding of nonferrous metals. 
In this legislation the Government has decided to introduce a revised bounty scheme for agricultural tractors and to remove the licensing controls on imports of used, second-hand and disposal agricultural tractors. The decisions followed the Government's acceptance of the Commission's report of 19 February 1976 on agricultural tractors. This report was presented in this House last week. These recommendations have been received favourably by both tractor producers and the primary industry organisations representing users of agricultural tractors. Assistance for the production of agricultural tractors in Australia is provided by means of a bounty related to the horsepower of the tractors manufactured. Over the years governments in Australia have supported by way of bounty the manufacture of farm tractors by the International Harvester Australia Ltd in Victoria and by Chamberlain- now Chamberlain John Deere Pty Ltd- at Welshpool in Western Australia. Both of these manufacturers, which are protected by a bounty on certain horsepower tractors, have made a major contribution to employment in those two States. 
The Commission recommended the continuation of assistance by this means and that the bounty be phased down over a S-year period to bring the assistance for the industry more into line with that available to industry generally in this country. The new bounty structure will provide assistance which will be relatively uniform in respect of tractor size and local content. The new schedule will be phased in in 2 stages over 5 years, for the first 3 years at current rates. These phasing in arrangements will allow the industry to adjust gradually to the reduction in the level of assistance. The new bounty schedule will be indexed to maintain assistance in a similar way to that provided by  ad valorem  tariffs. The indexation will be effected on implementation by use of the Reserve Bank of Australia import price index 'machinery except electric' group. That will not be considered under this particular scheme. 
The bounty entitlements will reduce by an amount equal to one per cent for each one per cent by which the Australian content measured as a percentage of factory cost is less than 100 per cent, with no bounty being payable where the Australian content is below 55 per cent. This is important. In assessing factory cost and Australian content the value of the tyres and tyre tubes, winches, air conditioning and sound equipment will be excluded. This includes transistor radios in the tractors. There is no doubt today that the farming community looks for comfort when they are farming their huge areas of wheat, sorghum and other grains. These components when imported as part of complete tractors will be dutiable at the same rates that they would attract if imported separately. Except for these components, imported tractors in the bountiable range will continue to enter duty free. A misunderstanding exists amongst a lot of people in Australia- that these large horsepower tractors come in from overseas duty free. 
Payment of bounty at the proposed rates wm be made from 1 January 1977. Bountiable tractors produced before that date but sold after that date will be subject to the rates and conditions of bounty applicable under the provisions of the existing Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966. The industry will be reviewed again within a period of 8 years except in respect of tractors with a power rating in excess of 105 kilowatts at the PTO, which is the horse power at the belt pulley as opposed to draw-bar horse power which is the main one in which farmers are interested. No evidence of these tractors being manufactured in Australia had been given and accordingly the Industries Assistance Commission could not make any recommendation in regard to this type of tractor. However, it has come to the Government's attention that tractors in excess of 105 kilowatts were being produced in Australia and this has been referred to the Commission for report and inquiry. So it is good to know that large horsepower tractors will be manufactured in Australia because with the huge production of grain in this country large horsepower tractors will be required by the farming community to cut their costs, to cover the ground quickly, to conserve moisture when it rains and to give increased production. 
One thing which concerns my colleague the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  and me relates to the manufacture of tractor cabins. Until 2 years ago all tractors came into this country without cabins. The tractor cabin industry in Australia was established. There are 2 very well known firms. One is A. F. Gason Pty Ltd at Ararat which I think employs 500 or 600 fine Australians and the other is Wolmar Industries Pty Ltd at Orange which employs a similar number of people. There are other tractor cabin factories in Australia. These firms are being seriously affected at the present time by the tractor manufacturers in the United States and in Europe insisting that they supply machines to the Australian market with cabins attached to them. If we allow this practice to continue it will seriously affect the 2000 or 3000 people employed in the manufacture of tractor cabins in Australia. I hope that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  will look at this part of the tractor industry because there is no reason at all for us to be paying money overseas for tractor cabins on these imported machines when they can be made just as good and in fact better in Australia. So I hope that the Government will have a look at this because it is a serious situation. I have sat in with the honourable member for Wimmera at a meeting with executives of A. F. Gason Pty Ltd. I know just how concerned they are about their future because if imported machines with cabins attached to them keep coming in their business will be very seriously affected. 
It is surprising to me that members on the Opposition side keep harping about the unemployment situation in industry in Australia, particularly in the industries about which I have been speaking in this debate. It amazes me because in 1975 the Party they support brought in a 25 per cent tariff cut right across the board, and this seriously affected manufacturing industries in this country. Let us look at our textile industry. There were 120000 people employed in that industry. When this across-the-board tariff cut was brought in unemployment in that industry became prevalent Honourable members opposite are the ones who started unemployment in industry in this country. Instead of getting up and saying that there will be 700 000 unemployed in 12 months time or something like that they should be making responsible statements about the employment of people in Australia. 
One of the proposals relates to galvanised iron which is a commodity that is much in demand in this country, particularly in the areas that members of the National Country Party represent. Other proposals relate to rolled sheet steel and non-ferrous metals. It is interesting to note that the Government has made decisions to lift tariff quotas following a re-assessment of market conditions expected during the remainder of the tariff quota period. The Minister and the Government have apparently been satisfied after consultation with the Australian manufacturers that with improved market conditions the quota restrictions are no longer required to protect the industry from disruptive imports. However, it is to be hoped that the Minister and the Government will make sure that they continually keep in touch with the Australian manufacturers to ensure that at no time they will be seriously affected to the extent that the employment situation in the industry in question is upset. I have much pleasure indeed in supporting the Bill brought down by the Minister. 
I support the Address-in-Reply motion so ably moved by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  and supported by the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie).  I propose to mention a few of the facts that caused the economic problems with which we are faced today and which existed when the Fraser-Anthony Government took over from the Labor Government. Three years of profligate government spending brought one of the world's wealthiest nations to the brink of economic disaster. Then the people rebelled. In April 1975 the Australian economy was in its worst shape since the Great Depression. The country's socialist Labor Government was running a $3 billion deficit- 5 per cent of the gross national product. Business confidence had all but vanished, unemployment had soared to the highest level in 30 years and inflation had accelerated to an annual rate of 13.4 per cent. In Canberra, Australia's Federal capital, a wry joke went the rounds: 'The only Australian factory working day and night is the 
Government mint'. Eight months later the Australian people, in their most decisive vote in recent history, threw the Labor Government out of office. 
The story of Labor's 3-year rule makes a sobering case study of what can happen to even such an economically advantaged country as Australia when high spending proponents of big government are voted into power. Australia, the lucky country as Australians began calling it in the 1960s, has one ofthe world's highest living standards. With a population of 13.5 million, it produces much of the West's wool, wheat and sugar. Minerals abound. We produce 70 per cent of the world's zircon. We have a near monopoly of titanium ore, one quarter of the noncommunist bloc's uranium, and plentiful supplies of coal, iron, copper, bauxite, silver, lead and zinc. According to World Bank figures, Australia also has the West's most egalitarian economy, with the smallest gap between rich and poor. 
When Labor came into office in late 1972 unemployment was 2.4 per cent and inflation 4.5 per cent- an economic performance matched only by West Germany. With 70 per cent of Australia's oil requirements coming from local wells, she should have been relatively insulated from the world inflation that the oil producing countries' sudden price increases in 1973 would bring. Nevertheless, by 1974 Australia's economy was in a frightening mess. Inflation had soared as high as 28 per cent in a single month. Why? A July 1975 International Monetary Fund survey stated bluntly: 
The origins of the Australian recession are to be found in domestic developments. 
Those developments began in mid- 1972. A conservative coalition of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party had been governing without interruption since 1949. Despite a good record in managing Australia's post-war development, the Liberal and National Country Parties appeared to have stagnated after so long in office, and in the 1972 election they were not able to counter the appeal of a dynamic Labor leader, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  For the first time in a quarter of a century normally conservative Australians elected a socialist government. Within days of taking office the Whitlam Government plunged itself into a socialist-minded restructuring of the Australian economy. New expenditures were voted for free college education, increased aid to schools, higher unemployment compensation and age pensions, and subsidies for sports and the arts. The Honourable Fred Daly, a former member for Grayndler, said: 
Few of us bothered to count the cost in those early days. 
He was one of the Whitlam Government Ministers. He later confessed: 
We spent money as if it were going out of fashion. 
Almost immediately inflation accelerated. The consumer price index jumped 8.2 per cent in the first 6 months of Labor rule. Increased unemployment benefits and relaxed eligibility regulations began to foster a welfare mentality which is still with us today. One economist estimated that 10 000 persons stopped working. Handouts for young unemployed workers in particular more than quadrupled and the number of surfies increased substantially. A new lifestyle known as dole bludging- government subsidised loafingproliferated. 
As Labor prepared its first Budget, for 1973-74, senior civil servants warned that the economy could absorb a government spending increase of only $1.8 billion. Determined to have its new programs, however, Labor lifted outlays by $2.3 billion. Judicious taxing might have dampened the resultant inflation, but Labor had pledged not to increase taxes. Instead it announced an across-the-board 25 per cent cut in tariffs. By exposing Australia's tariff protected industries to foreign competition Labor reasoned that prices would be forced down. For the same reason the Government formed the Prices Justification Tribunal, charged with limiting company profits. This really started the unemployment problem in Australia because it allowed into the country goods manufactured in Asian countries by workers being paid $12 a month. That was Labor's policy. It did not protect the Australian worker. The policy backfired. Many factories unprepared for the invasion of cheaper imports closed down. As a direct result of the cuts, at least 23 000 workers lost their jobs and inflation reached 13 per cent. These workers were employed mainly in decentralised industries in our great provincial cities and towns. 
The Labor Government also set out to boost wages and benefits. It pushed through a 17.5 per cent pay increase and a fourth week's annual vacation for the 245 000 Federal civil servants and it supported a trade union plan to extend the longer vacation to private industry. In 3 years Australian wages rose by 70 per cent while industrial productivity increased by less than 1 per cent. The figures are frightening. During the election campaign the Labor Party had argued that its trade union links would enable it to negotiate more effectively with militant unions, but in  Mr Whitlam  's first year strikes proliferated and 2 634 000 working days were lost- a 3 1 per cent increase over the previous year. 
Civil servants warned the Labor Government of the need for 1974-75 budgetary restraint to curb, inflation. Labor hesitated as its factions fought. Contradictory budgets were put forward month by month. Business confidence slumped further and unemployment rose. Finally,  Mr Whitlam  fired his Treasurer,  Mr Frank  Crean, and replaced him with  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Jim  Cairns, of the Party's left wing. The new Treasurer's inability to say 'no' to socialist colleagues' pet programs earned him the nickname of  'Dr Yes'.  Soon Canberra buzzed with alarming stories of what the Sydney  Bulletin  called the Government's 'handout industry, the fastest growth area in the Australian economy'. Concerned that local government authorities were not spending all the money available to them, the Department of Urban and Regional Development published a 57-page book entitled Sources of Funds and How to Apply for Them. Members of Parliament voted themselves a 37 per cent salary increase.  Dr Cairns  presided over a Cabinet meeting that lifted the ceiling on Public Service hirings and in Labor's 3 years in office the number of public servants increased by 12.6 per cent. 
In a development familiar to Americans these soaring administrative overheads tragically negated many of the well-meaning programs which Labor introduced. Perhaps the most poignant example was welfare for the sadly disadvantaged remnants of the AboriginesAustralia's native race. Determined to do something about their misery, the Labor Government sponsored a threefold spending increase on Aboriginal programs. In response the Department of Aboriginal Affairs promptly doubled its staff and poured much of its funds into 89 largely fruitless research projects, including an attempt to farm turtles and crocodiles. We all know what happened to them. When it was time to check the stock there was not a turtle to be found. They had all disappeared and Sim of taxpayers' money had gone down the drain. Aboriginal welfare became a self-sustaining bureaucracy with a huge share of the Government money going to social workers, administrators, researchers and consultants. Canberra political commentator Peter Samuel observed: 
If the Department's whole budget was simply paid to the Aborigines, each man, women and child would get $1,800. Instead, each Aborigines received an average of $96. 
As the recession deepened and inflation continued, the Government launched its single most expensive program yet-Medibank, a system of free universal health care which added some $1.8 billion yearly to the taxpayers' burden. Medical costs now began to climb at a rate outstripping even inflation. Physicians' fees increased by 20 per cent in the first year of Medibank 's operation. General practitioners would order unnecessarily full pathological tests for their patients and then pass on the entire charge to the Government. Some doctors reportedly were seeing up to 20 nursing home patients an hour and billing Medibank. Medibank, said the editor of  The Medical Letter,  had become 'a multimillion dollar, money-eating machine'. All told Australian federal spending reached an estimated $26.3 billion in 1975-76-up a staggering 80 per cent in just 2 years. 
It was appropriate perhaps, that a government so careless with money should pass from the political scene over a money scandal- the all but incredible Khemlani affair. This was an attempt by the Labor Government to borrow $4 billion m Middle Eastern petrodollars by going outside normal governmental fund-raising channels. Without notifying Parliament a group of high ranking Cabinet members, including  Mr Whitlam,  authorised Minerals and Energy Minister,  Mr Rex  Connor, to borrow funds for unspecified 'temporary purposes' which is believed to have been the nationalisation of large segments of the mining industry. Their intermediary was to have been, not one of the large New York or London banks traditionally used by the Australian Treasury, instead a Pakistani money merchant named Tirath Hassaram Khemlani who claimed to be in touch with rich Arab sheiks and who sat on a box in a dingy London Office. Details of the proposed borrowing underscored the Labor Government's consistent lack of sympathy for the Australian taxpayer. The loan was to have been repaid at compound interest but with no payment for 20 years. Thus for the $4 billion the next generation of Australians would have had to repay an astonishing $17.6 billion. Moreover, Khemlani was to have received a  2Vi  per cent finder's commissiona mere $10Om. When these details leaked to Parliament and the Press the uproar was such that  Mr Whitlam  was forced to withdraw  Mr Connor's  premission to raise the loan. When the Minister quietly continued his negotiations with Khemlani the Press uncovered this too and  Mr Connor  was obliged to resign. Within 2 months the Labor Government had been swept away. A landslide anti-Labor vote returned the conservative coalition to power. 
Last May in his first televised address to the nation, the new Prime Minister, the Rt  Hon. 
Malcolm Fraser, referred to some political truisms which many countries besides Australia have recently neglected. He said: 
Over the past year or so, the view had begun to develop that we could have it all without really having to pay for it But one of the things we've got to understand is that when politicians promise things, they are not promising anything of their own, because they have nothing of their own to give. They are promising something which is yours, and the more politicians promise, the less there is for you to meet your own needs or your family's needs. The less there is for industry, for investment, and to create jobs needed to improve the real wealth of Australia. 
When the Prime Minister took over the government of this country he stated that it would take 3 years to clean up the mess left by the former Labor Government. Let us have a look at a few of the things which have happened in the last 12 months to the advantage of this country. The December quarter consumer price index shows that the marked downward trend in inflation during 1976 has been consolidated. After adjustment for the effects of changes made to Medibank, the consumer price index increased by 2.8 per cent during the quarter compared with 6.3 per cent in the December quarter 1975. Again, after adjustment for the Medibank changes, the index increased by a rate of 10.8 per cent during the 12 months to the end of 1976 compared with an increase of 16.7 per cent over the 12 months to December 1975. Real gross non-farm production increased by 2.7 per cent in the September quarter to a level of 7.6 per cent above the December quarter of 1975. Non-farm production fell 4 per cent in real terms between the March quarter of 1974 and the December quarter of 1975 and the growth in the first 9 months of 1976 has more than recovered those earlier losses. Company profits in the September quarter of 1976 were 39.4 per cent higher compared with the same quarter in 1975. If honourable members look at the financial columns in the newspapers today they will see that Aus.tralian companies are doing very well at present under the Fraser Government. 
Investment by private businesses in plant and equipment increased by 24 per cent in 1976 which is a substantial real increase compared with virtually no change in real terms during 1 975. New capital raisings by listed companies in Australia totalled $66 lm in the December quarter last year compared with $36 lm for the same quarter in 1975. Average quarterly new raisings over 1976 were some 55 per cent higher than the 1975 average. Recent monthly figures on registrations of new motor vehicles reflect continued recovery from the relatively low levels recorded following the introduction of more stringent emission control specifications on 1 July last year. In the 3 months to January seasonally adjusted registrations were 20 per cent higher than in the 3 months to October. In the 6 months to last September real private investment in dwellings was 20 per cent higher than in the same period a year earlier. Total dwelling approvals for 1976 rose by 13 per cent to the comfortably high level of 151200 compared with the 1970 figure of 133 400. Both major business surveys available for the December quarter showed a noticeable improvement in business conditions over the September quarter. The Australian economy is improving. The improvement is slow but, as the Prime Minister has said, after taking over such a morass and such a shemozzle from the former Government it will take 3 years to bring the economy under any sort of control. The Government is on its way to doing so and I have no doubt that, if it sticks to the policies which it has enunciated, the Government will bring the economy under control. 
-On 14 February the Australian Broadcasting Commission station at Newcastle changed its channel over from Channel 5 to Channel 5 A. As a result of that change, as you will know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  television viewing in the Hunter Valley- and in Newcastle itself- as far south as Gosford, as far north as Taree, as far to the north-west as Murrurundi and as far west as Merriwa has been severely interfered with. Representations have been made to me by hundreds of people and by local governing bodies in the area to seek a correction of the situation that exists at the present time. It would appear that the Telecom technicians did not do their homework when the changeover was made. If they had done so, ABC television viewing in this huge area would be like it was prior to the changeover. 
Representations have been made by me and by other members of this House to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to correct the situation. He has informed the honourable members that he is sending a special officer into the area to carry out an investigation of the problems. Up until tonight no correction has been made, and the situation is very poor indeed. Surely something can be done by the Minister to correct the situation. The people in the area who have television sets are entitled, as other people in Australia are entitled, to receive proper television from the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Channel 3, which is the commercial station in Newcastle, has also offered to improve its television viewing in this area by seeking authority to establish a translator station at Merriwa. It is having difficulty in getting permission and authority from Telecom through the Minister to install this translator station which will improve viewing in the Hunter Valley. The people in this area are very dissatisfied indeed. I ask the Minister to do something through Telecom to correct the situation and to give the people in this area proper Australian Broadcasting Commission television to which they are entitled. 
Can the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade say whether there has been any improvement in the coal industry over the past 12 months? Are any new developments taking place in this important industry? 
-In Australia immigration must surely form a very important part of any Government's policy. We are a sparse population with little more than 13 million people and we have 3 million square miles in which to locate this small number of people. Some 75 per cent are situated in our seaboard cities of Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston and Hobart. It is very important that we supplement our population with immigrants. Our immigration intake over the past few years has diminished considerably. Of course, this is by reason of the economic and unemployment situation at present prevailing in Australia. I have no doubt whatever that when this situation is arrested the present Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  who is doing an excellent job, and the Government will ensure that increased migration takes place. Of our present population, 40 per cent is represented by people from overseas who have brought with them certain skills. Artisans and such people from overseas have made a great contribution to industry in this country and to its development. 
During this discussion much has been said about the Green Paper entitled  Immigration Policies and Australia's Population  which was tabled in the House recently by the Minister. It should make a very useful contribution to public understanding of the great problems involved. It is very doubtful whether most people realise the recent population trends and what they are likely to mean unless official action of various kinds is taken. Firstly, the birth rate has already fallen to a level where, in the long term, births will be offset by deaths. This, of course, means zero population growth, about which we have heard so much in various reports from people interested in this field. Secondly, the estimated net immigration rate in the current financial year is little more than 30 000 people, compared with only 21 000 people in 1975-76. Thirdly, in the past 10 years Australia has lost more than onethird of a million people in international movements. This is a very serious situation for this country. Fourthly, in addition to this loss, migrants returning to their homelands have amounted to about 20 per cent of arrivals since 1925. That is a long time ago but the percentage is one about which we should think seriously. 
It all adds up to the fact that we face the prospect of an Australia with little or no natural increase in population and only a very small net gain from immigration. Some of the results will be a smaller increase in the labour force, possible labour shortages in the 1980s and the 1990s, smaller numbers of school-age children, and a progressive ageing of the population. Less will have to be spent on education but more on the social security system. We know of the demands being made by educationists in Australia at present for increased funding of education, in both capital grants and in the provision of teaching services. 
The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in previous statements in this House has made it clear that there is a numerical decline in what has historically been the mainstay of the labour force, the male worker; and the risk that we shall become increasingly inward looking and a stagnant society. All these possibilities may be accepted with equanimity by some people. They are the zero population growth advocates, those sceptical of economic growth for its own sake, others concerned with conservation and environmental issues and those who fear, quite simply, that the country needs time to digest the postwar influx of immigrants. 
There is, however, a great danger in allowing long term considerations to be obscured by our only too real short term difficulties, which include a great number of unemployed. This matter must be looked at in the long term. We have short term problems at the moment. The Green Paper looks at the matter in better perspective. It looks at three possible programssmall, medium and large. The first, which would involve a net loss of 1000 to 2000 workers a year, mostly in professional and skilled occupations, arouses little enthusiasm. The second, medium, with a gross intake of 90 000 to 120 000 a year and a net gain of 50 000, appears to be a good scheme. The third, large, seems to present too many practical difficulties. It is a good Green Paper. It balances long term against short term considerations and draws attention to difficulties which will arise very quickly when economic recovery occurs. It is non-committal on the admittance of refugees. However, this is another matter and must be taken in context with our moral obligation to accept refugees. 
Australia's real population building took place in the post-war period when we embarked on a major immigration program. This saw the arrival in Australia of over 3.3 million new settlers who, together with children born in Australia, have been responsible for approximately half of Australia 's post-war growth from 7.4 million to 13.9 million people today. With the passing of time this policy has provided dividends for Australia. Various governments in the post-war period have done much to overcome the inevitable difficulties of adjustment to new environments. 
The Minister, in his speech on 17 March this year, said that Australians are a mobile people. At present we have many thousands of our people overseas in various callings, professions and vocations. The Green Paper points out that in the past 10 years Australia has lost over 330 000 persons, quite apart from the losses of former migrants who left Australia to take up permanent residence overseas. Many of these people possessed valuable technical and professional skills. I have some figures with regard to arrivals and departures and the excess of arrivals over departures for 1974, 1975 and 1976. In 1974 there were 121 324 arrivals, 33 751 departures and an excess of arrivals over departures of 87 573. In 1975 to 30 September there were 54 117 arrivals, 29 084 departures with an excess of arrivals over departures of 25 033. For the balance of 1975 there were 39 670 arrivals, 22 224 departures with a net gain of 1 7 446. This is a very serious situation. It reveals a down turn each year. In 1976 there were 38 478 arrivals, 20 22 1 departures with a net gain of 18 257. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the schedules of overseas arrivals and departures for 1974 and 1975 and for the first and second quarters of 1976, the latest figures available to me. 
Is the Treasurer aware that in a recent publication published by the Movement Against Uranium Mining of 5 1 Nicholson Street, Carlton, Victoria, it is stated that any donation over $2 can be claimed as a tax deduction? The coupon in the publication states: 
All donations over $2 will be tax deductible if your cheque is made out to the Australian Conservation Foundation, 206 Clarendon Street, East Melbourne, 3002, and marked 'Movement Against Uranium Mining'. 
Can the Treasurer advise whether that type of donation is a legitimate tax deduction and, if not, what action will be taken to stop it? 
-We have just heard a very pessimistic and calamitous speech by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  We support the development of uranium mining in Australia and the export of uranium. The honourable member asked why we do not include this question in the referendum proposals which are to be put next month and get the opinion of the Australian people. The latest gallup poll showed that 70 per cent of Australians were in favour of developing uranium mines in Australia; 17 per cent were against and 13 per cent did not know. Seventy-one per cent of Australians interviewed in this gallup poll were shown to be in favour of the export of uranium from Australia; 2 1 per cent were against it and 8 per cent did not know. I venture to say that when the people of Australia are acquainted with the facts about uranium mining those who did not know will certainly make up their minds and will be in favour of the export and development of Australian uranium. 
I have never heard so many pessimistic speeches by Opposition members as we have heard in this debate. Surely they must realise what a great benefit uranium will be to Australia. It will be to our economy what oil has been to the Arabs. Australia has the largest uncommitted resources of uranium but substantial deposits exist in the United States of America, Canada and indeed in Africa. Australia possesses 25 per cent of the presently known high grade uranium reserves in the Western world, but low grade reserves of a much greater percentage exist. Indeed in Australia there would be many more uranium fields yet to be discovered. The uranium industry is a large potential industry. It would contribute significantly to the future growth of and investment in Australia. It would improve our standard of living. It would make a growing contribution to exports and help to finance imports of all kinds, including oil and capital equipment. The uranium industry would be in low income areas of Australia. It promises to raise income in those areas. Most of the uranium finds are in the sparsely populated areas of Australia and would provide employment for approximately 3000 people in these areas when developed. This would be of great benefit to Australia. 
The Fox Uranium Inquiry found that mining and milling of uranium, properly controlled as it is in Australia, presents hazards no worse than those incurred in any other mining operation. It believes uranium mining can be developed. I say that it is a much safer operation than, for instance, the production of coal, iron ore and other minerals that are mined in Australia. The report also found that current operations of nuclear power stations, properly controlled, are safe by any reasonable standards. The mining of uranium in Australia is a perfectly safe operationpossibly the safest of any mining in this country. It is sheer nonsense to say that uranium mining is more dangerous than other mining. If we look at the record in Australia we find that uranium mining was carried out successfully and safely in Australia from 1954 to 1971. It is interesting to note the amount of ore treated during that period. The figures were: Rum Jungle, 863 000 tonnes; United Uranium, 128 000 tonnes; South Alligator, 13 000 tonnes; Mary Kathleen, 2 947 000 tonnes- that mine is now operating again- Radium Hill and Port Pirie, 970 000 tonnes. The question to be asked is: Why should uranium mining be less safe now than it was then? We must realise that uranium is being mined on an increasing scale in overseas countries including the United States of America, 
Canada, South Africa, Nigeria, France, Gabon and the Soviet Union. 
If uranium mining is unsafe, why do these nations do it? Uranium is a harmless mineral in its natural state. Even in the great nuclear power stations throughout the world where enriched uranium is used the safety record is unsurpassed. I have a set of figures here which I should like included in  Hansard.  They show the actual statistics concerning the risk of fatality by various causes in the U.S.A. The chart shows that in the 100 nuclear power stations in the United States there has not been one fatality. This figure is compared with figures for other items such as motor car accidents, drownings, fire arm accidents, etc. The figures indicate conclusively that there is little danger of any fatalities in this great industry. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="104131197704214_89_8.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. Research has shown that 160 nuclear power stations are already operating and there has not been a single death or injury to the public at large as a result of the operations of these stations. Nuclear power is the power of the future. As we have abundant supplies of the raw material- uranium ore- we should be developing the mining and marketing of it immediately. Even when these mines are developed it will take some years before they will be in a position to supply the world market with uranium. 
All nations have access to uranium ore from the ever-growing mining industry or from sea water. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  mentioned tonight that the Japanese are devising a method and the technological knowhow to obtain uranium from sea water. In the Press today there is a report from Japan that the Japanese are experimenting with producing uranium from phosphate rock. So how stupid would we be not to get on the job and get our uranium moving. If the Japanese develop these methods of producing uranium from sea water and phosphate rock we will be stuck with a useless commodity in the ground whereas now we can sell it. We ought to be jolly well doing what we can to produce it. Separation processes can be used to acquire weapons material from these sources. The denying of access to Aus.tralian uranium therefore can have no effect on the spread of nuclear weapons. People of the world, both poor and wealthy, require more and more power to improve their standards of living. The demand comes from them. A splendid example of this is the rapid increase in the consumption of electrical energy all over the world. 
A nation such as Australia which has far more uranium than is required for its own energy needs, has a duty to sell the excess to these less fortunate nations. If we do not sell our uranium, we could be classed as being selfish and this could lead to international tensions. We will not need to use uranium in this country because we have ample supplies of fossil fuel to provide the electrical energy we need here. So let us get on with the job and export the uranium. 
At the present time Australia is in the fortunate situation of being able to supply 70 per cent of its petroleum requirements from indigenous crude oil and 30 per cent from overseas from places like the Persian Gulf, the Bahrain Islands, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. Unless we discover more profitable oil fields in the near future, by 1987 we could be importing nearly 100 per cent of our petroleum from overseas. What a drain on our overseas balances and on the economy of this country. This means that possibly we would have to find $2.5 billion to $3 billion a year to provide the transport industry and motorists with petroleum products. By 1985 the Australian uranium industry will be capable of satisfying 20 per cent of the world market. It could earn for Australia $3 billion a year and thus offset the great drain on our economy or on our overseas balances for oil. What a great situation to be in! Yet there are those in Australia who vehemently oppose the development of an industry that can save Australia economically. 
There appear to be many people in Australia who fear the issue of disposal of high level waste. This would not concern us for some long time in Australia but, nevertheless, world-wide it is a subject of great importance. High level waste has been in existence since 1 948- the beginning of the weapons program. The method of storing this waste has been as a liquid in tanks. This has not been the best method for long term storage. There have been some problems. The amount of high level waste already in existence is equal to the amount which is likely to be produced up until the year 2000. At the present time, considerable investigation is going on as to the best method of storing this waste. This is taking place in small areas set aside for this purpose. I have no doubt that this investigation will be finalised and that a completely satisfactory method will be devised by the technologists. 
The Government has no plans to introduce nuclear power stations into this country. Therefore, there will be no nuclear wastes created in Australia. All that has been talked about to date is the possibility of the mining of uranium ore and its export from Australia. These activities do not create any nuclear waste in this country nor will any conversion and enrichment of uranium create any nuclear wastes here. I may have time later to quote from a letter by  Senator Mulvihill  which was published in the  Australian Financial Review  which implied that wastes from uranium mining and wastes from nuclear power stations are the same. They are not related in any way. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  who is at the table, when speaking on 1 1 November last in respect of approved sales of uranium said that the handling and disposal of radioactive waste resulting from nuclear power generation lies with the countries concerned, that is, the countries to which Australia exports uranium for electric power generation. The handling and disposal of such waste are subject to the strictest regulations and controls in these countries within existing technology. 
Some concern has been expressed from time to time about radon gas in uranium mining and milling. It is true that radon gas is a problem which is found particularly in underground mining. But it is not such a problem in open cut mining of the type carried out and envisaged in Australian uranium mining. As a member of the Government Members Trade and Resources Committee, with colleagues I have visited many of the uranium mines in this country. Indeed, they are safe mining operations. The environment is restored to its natural state. Trees are planted and, in many circumstances, the environment is left in a far better state than prior to the extraction of the uranium from the ground. We support the uranium industry, its development in this country and the export of uranium overseas. 
-This is a cognate debate. I shall address my remarks to the life insurance aspect of it. Life insurance in Australia is regulated by the Life Insurance Act 1945-1973 which restricts the business to corporate bodies registered by the Life Insurance Commissioner. A high standard of entry is maintained. Applicants for registration must show that they can conduct a self-contained, wellorganised operation in Australia with experienced management and adequate financial resources for development. Registered companies are required to establish one or more statutory life insurance funds to secure policy liabilities and to lodge with the Commissioner audited accounts and balance sheets, actuarial abstracts and other returns, by means of which the Commissioner can supervise the companies and protect the interests of policy holders. Most of the returns are available for public information. No life insurance policy may be issued unless the premium rates for its class have been certified as adequate by an actuary and each company is required to have an actuarial valuation made regularly of its policy liabilities on a basis which is at least as strong as the minimum basis prescribed under the legislation. 
The Life Insurance Amendment Bill 1977 amends the Life Insurance Act 1945. It will update and improve existing supervisory machinery established by the Act to take into account changes in money values and business practices. These have altered considerably since the original Act became law. The previous Act of over 3 1 years ago has been most successful in preventing failures among life insurance companies in Australia. This can be classed as an industry with few rivals in this field throughout the world. The present Bill brings modifying provisions in the light of experience since the Act came into full operation on 1 August 1974. The main provisions of the Act are stated clearly in the second reading speech of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson). 
Life assurance companies play a great part in the economic growth of Australia and are easily the largest investors in this country. I cite the Australian Mutual Provident Society which alone has close to $300m each year to invest. These investments, along with other substantial life assurance companies, assist in developing all kinds of industries across Australia and play a very large part in our way of life. These funds contribute to natural resources development in industries such as iron ore, steel, pastoral, petroleum, natural gas, aluminium, fertilisers, chemicals, timber, mining and quarrying. Assurance funds are playing a major part in the growth of primary and secondary industry, the provision of housing finance, new suburban shopping centres and housing estates and redevelopment of central city areas. It can be seen that life assurance plays a significant role in the lives of many Australians. 
Unfortunately, the number of life policies surrendered has accelerated sharply since the former Labor Government virtually destroyed the tax incentive on premium payments. This was a tragedy and a great national loss because the loss of family security and cover could mean financial hardship for thousands of families should a breadwinner suddenly die. On inquiry, the main cause of complaint was related to the amount offered or available as surrender value. Inquiries on this subject have been largely responsible for the increase in the total number of inquiries in the last 2 years and are undoubtedly associated with the substantial increase that has occurred in the surrender of policies since 1975. Policies are surrendered for a variety of reasons, but it is evident that a contributing factor to the increased surrenders of recent times has been the concern on the part of policy owners as to the loss of value of policy in real terms during periods of high inflation. As the owner of a policy is always likely to suffer some loss of equity on surrender of the policy, it is encouraging to note that the rise in the volume of surrenders now appears to be slowing down significantly. Latest figures issued by the Life Insurance Commissioner show that at 31 December 1975, 5 635 000 life policies were in existence in this country for a total insured sum of $39,2 14.8m with annual premiums of $7 15.6m. On the superannuation side there are 660 000 policies in operation for an insured sum of $20,885. 6m with annual premiums of $553,430,000. Industrial policies total $2,011,000 for the sum insured of $l,597.7m. The annual premium amounts to $58.74m. This represents a total of 8 306 000 policies for sums insured of $6 1,698.1m at an annual premium of $1,327. 17m. Superannuation business sums continued to increase during 1975 although the rate of increase was only 29.3 per cent as compared with 43.2 per cent during 1974. There was substantial rise in the sums insured which were discontinued. The rate of increase in discontinuance for 1975 was 4 1.3 per cent. In 1974, it was 5.5 per cent. These results have probably been influenced by the difficult economic conditions which existed in those years. Of course the superannuation amounts have been increased on behalf of the contributors to take care of inflation. 
Life companies do an awful lot of good for low income groups. Payments to widows and orphans are in many cases the only assets that those people possess. These companies should not be knocked for their activity in the life insurance field in Australia. Life insurance meets a basic human need- the necessity to protect a family against loss of income through old age and death. By joining a common pool of people concerned about the same issues, a person can provide for himself or herself and for dependants, financial security which would otherwise be impossible to attain. Under the Act still in force, 30 per cent of life companies' funds are required to be invested in Commonwealth, local and semi-government loans. We know what great benefit these investments are to the community right across the board. The industry is anxious to have the Act modernised. It realises that changes have taken place in conditions, the forms of policies and public demand, making it desirable to modernise some areas of the legislation. The then Minister Assisting the Treasurer stated in his second reading speech that new problems have arisen which are not covered by the Act. 
Under those circumstances it would appear that there will have to be a much wider review to determine what kind of supervisory legislation is best suited to Australia's life insurance industry in the future. We should be prepared for further legislation in this field to take care of this situation. 
The real worry of the industry is the tax problem. The 1973-74 Labor Budget increased the tax burden of life offices by 350 per cent. Its burden increased more heavily than that of anyone else. It has fallen into the category of being the only taxpayer not allowed to claim operating expenses as a tax deduction. It is the only business operation in this country that is not allowed to do so. It is not allowed to claim a deduction for its selling expenses. Approximately 15 per cent of the clerical expenses are allowed as a deduction by life companies. This has the effect of reducing the bonus payments that are made to policy holders. There are virtually no shareholders in these companies. So the policy holders certainly must be the ones to lose out. 
The 1975 Hayden Budget introduced a general rebate of $540. As I have mentioned previously, this has been a disaster to the insurance industry and a disaster to the taxpayers of this country. 
Yes. The amount of $1,350 in deductions has to be reached before substantial income earners can receive a deduction of 40 per cent on amounts spent in the allowable area. Most people receive the rebate irrespective of whether they have life insurance. The limit of $1,200 has not been increased since 1967. It should now be of the order of $3,000. The $1,200 allowance covers $800 for life insurance and $400 for superannuation. It is possible that those figures should be reversed and that it should be $800 for superannuation and $400 for life insurance. An old anomaly is the fate of the self employed. An employee is allowed $1,200. An employer is allowed exactly the same amount. A self employed person morally should be entitled to a greater benefit than $ 1,200. 
That is right. An increase in the limit certainly would be of tremendous value to the small businessman. I support this legislation, which will be of great benefit. As I mentioned previously, we can expect further legislation to be introduced which also will be of benefit to the industry and to the holders of the policies of these splendid life offices which mean so much to Australia's development and to the safeguarding of family life. 
-Several weeks ago in this House I raised the question of television reception from the Australian Broadcasting Commission's Channel 5a in the Newcastle and Hunter River area. No improvement in television viewing has been recorded since that date in the Hunter. Last Friday week an engineer, who was supposed to have done technical work in regard to the changeover to Channel 5a appeared on an ABC talk-back station in Newcastle and endeavoured to explain to the people of the Hunter Valley how to overcome their reception problems in respect of Channel 5A. All that he did was to inform the residents of the Valley that they should purchase antennas and have them properly directed to the ABC channel. 
The current situation is most unsatisfactory. I know that your constituents,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  who live in the electorate adjoining the electorate of Paterson, are experiencing exactly the same trouble with Channel 5a. All that the people of the Hunter Valley are asking is that the quality of reception they received prior to the changeover be restored. The installation of new antennas is not the answer to the problem. I was in a home on a hillside in Bolwarra Heights last Sunday night and I can tell honourable members that the ABC reception was very poor. The quality of the reception in this area is a disgrace. 
I have received many telegrams from shire councils and local government bodies as well as constituents in the Hunter Valley area asking for action to be taken. I know that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is responsible for Telecom, has received hundreds of telegrams and letters. This matter has also been drawn to the attention of  Mr Schmidt  who is in charge of Telecom in New South Wales. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1 977: 
Did the Government take the opportunity afforded by the recent visit to Australia of a delegation of senior officials from the Commission of the European Economic Community to impress upon these officials Australia's dissatisfaction with the Community's restrictive trading policies, particularly in relation to Australian exports of beef and veal and other primary products? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
Are 20 per cent of deaths in Australia caused by cancer. 
What funds are being made available by the Government for cancer research in Australia. 
Has any breakthrough been made by researchers in any particular aspect of cancer. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
1 ) Is New Zealand at present selling beef to Australian buyers. 
Have large quantities of this product been sold in Australia. 
Will he provide the latest information concerning these beef imports from New Zealand. 
Has his attention been drawn to reports that beef producers in the electoral division of Paterson are very concerned at these imports. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Overseas Trade. A delegation of West German industrialists under the leadership of Professor Imhausen recently visited Australia. I understand that the delegation came to Australia to discuss the possibility of establishment of a coal-based motor spirit plant. Can the Minister give any details as to the size of the plant and the capital investment envisaged? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Did the Australian Broadcasting Commission's radio stations 2NA and 2UH, on their program  Talking Point  from 5.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Sunday, 22 May 1977, broadcast an interview by a woman with 2 lesbians that was filthy and degenerate, with the interviewer appearing deliberately to lead the conversation on to what they said? Was this a disgusting episode? Is it a fact that this program is described as a current affairs program- 
-Support is given to the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill and the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) which we are debating at the present time. I have been amazed that the Australian Labor Party Opposition has produced only one  speaker  in the debate. Of course, this may be due to the fact that during the period of the Labor regime unemployment in Australia really increased substantially. When it introduced a 25 per cent tariff cut across the board this had a serious effect on employment in industry in this country, particularly in the textile industry. In my electorate of Paterson we have the big Bradmill textile mill at 
Maitland, where employment went from something like 1300 people down to 600 people. Employment at the mill declined because of the tariff reduction, which apparently was not researched properly. If it had been, I feel sure that the tariffs would not have been reduced and the beginning of unemployment in this country would have been severely curtailed. There are men and women employed in these industries who have given a lifetime of service. They are now in their forties and fifties, and it is extremely difficult for them to gain employment elsewhere if they lose their jobs in these industries. 
The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is a real free trader and is always very interesting to listen to. However, I am afraid that if we allowed a surfeit of overseas goods to come in without any tariff protection for our own industries we would have 3 times more unemployment than we have at present. It was interesting to hear the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson),  who is a protectionist, speak on the need for protection of efficient industries in order to create employment in Australia. It is my opinion that we must protect efficient industries in this country and protect industries which are of national importance to Australia. I believe that the Government should have the tariffs constantly under review, and I have no doubt that the record of government action in this direction over the past three or four months would prove that that is being done. 
The manufacturing industries have played and will continue to play an important part in Australian economic and social development. Over the years, manufacturing industry has created employment and utilised skills by producing industrial materials, machinery and equipment. It has contributed to national security and has provided the economy with a diversified base. It is important to note that one-fifth of the Australian work force is employed in manufacturing industry, and that means 1 300 000 people. The great rural and mining industries are very important to this country, but they cannot complete employment wise with our manufacturing industries. They are industries which bring into this country great amounts of export income which is very valuable to the economy, but I repeat that even though they are very important they cannot compete for employment with manufacturing industries. 
Faced with wage rises and other cost increases, many enterprises have reduced their work force, lowered their levels of Australian content, and switched to imported supplies. The number of off-shore manufacturers has increased, and there are now many Australian manufacturers who, because of the cheap Asian goods coming into Australia and the increased cost of wages here, have found it necessary to go off-shore and establish factories in places like Singapore, Taiwan and Hong Kong. That is a serious situation from the point of view of industry in Australia. Since May 1974 100 000 fewer persons have been employed in the manufacturing industry than were employed previously. Investment in new manufacturing industries is at a very low ebb indeed, and when one examines the figures one finds that very little activity is taking place in the provision of investment in manufacturing industries. 
Some speakers in this debate have referred to the White Paper which was produced by the Government and brought down in the House last week. Many industry leaders are disappointed with the White Paper, as are some members of Parliament, but it represents the first record of manufacturing industry made available in this country for 37 years. While it does not offer any positive solution, it provides a great amount of valuable industrial information which will be of importance and assistance to industry in Australia. I think it is necessary to enumerate the main features of the White Paper and the Government policies enunciated in it. Those policies are: 
Generating a wider and fuller understanding in the community of the significance of the changing environment for Australian manufacturing. 
Ensuring that, in times of economic downturn, manufacturing has adequate support so as to alleviate economic and social disruption, and minimise the erosion of employment opportunities. 
In the longer term, encouraging future development in activities which have the best prospects for expansion without the need for excessive support from consumers or taxpayers and providing a basis on which business can plan for the future. 
The policies enumerated in the White Paper are very important. While the Paper does not provide any immediate relief or largesse to the industries concerned, nevertheless it is a very valuable guide and will be of great assistance to them. 
I want to speak now about the Customs Tariff Validation Bill. It has been passed over without any debate, and indeed history shows that such Bills are very rarely debated. I believe that that is dangerous. The validation Bill refers to tyres, the olive industry, monochrome television receivers, and certain electronic components. I want to refer briefly to the validation Bill and what it means. It relates to customs tariff proposals Nos 1 1 to 14. The Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 
1977 will validate the collection of customs duties relating to customs tariff proposals Nos 1 1 to 14 until 31 December 1977. If this Bill is not passed, the collection of duties in accordance with the above proposals could be subject to legal challenge after the close of the current session of Parliament. I have no doubt that this Bill will be passed, together with the other tariff proposal. The background to each proposal is discussed in turn, and I want to go through them briefly. With regard to tyres, the proposal was introduced as an interim measure to allow the continuation of the former level of assistance pending a decision by the Government on the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission's final report on the tyre industry. Under the Industries Assistance Commission Act, temporary assistance granted must cease within 3 months of the receipt of an IAC report by the Government. The Government on 15 January 1975 introduced temporary assistance to the tyre industry on the following basis: 
The rate of duty for tyres used on passenger cars, utilities, trucks and buses, was increased by the addition of a temporary duty of 10 per cent, or, if higher, $0. 10 per kg to the then existing rates of 15 per cent, or if higher, $0.17 per kg (general) and 6 per cent, or, if higher, $0.08 per kg (preferential). 
The IAC has recommended in its draft report that the 25 per cent duty on tyres for passenger cars, utilities, trucks and buses should continue but that it be reduced to 20 per cent over 3 years. The tyre industry is very important to this country. It is one of the important manufacturing industries, and I point out that 7.5 million tyres are produced annually in Australia. There are some 12 000 people employed in this industry which sells $200m worth of" tyres each year. It has $194m in funds employed in the industry and is a vital and valuable industry to this country. It is under threat from overseas imports, particularly from Japan. The importation of tyres into this country from Japan is on the increase. I appreciate that Japan is one of our great customers for practically every primary product and metal produced in this country, nevertheless, I feel that we should be watching our tyre industry which is vital to us and would be vital in times of national emergency or war. We should keep our eye on it and ensure that it is given a certain amount of protection providing it is efficient. At present there is 71.3 per cent local manufacture of tyres and 28.7 percent comes from overseas. 
Customs tariff proposal No. 12 relates to a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission on matters relating to Australia's participation in multilateral trade negotiations conducted under the auspices of the General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The IAC was asked to look at goods in the customs tariff in respect of which, firstly, the general tariff rate exceeded the preferential rate, secondly, the general tariff was 10 per cent  ad valorem  or less, and the general tariff rate was free but the goods were subject to primage. It was asked to make recommendations on any possible reduction in tariffs. In all, the IAC found that the British preferential margin could be eliminated by a reduction in the general tariff rate for 690 items, that the British preferential margin could be reduced by a reduction of the general tariff rate for a further 115 items, and that both the British preferential and the general tariff rate could be eliminated for 94 items. The IAC refrained from recommending a reduction in duty if the effect of such a reduction would be to affect adversely the local industry. This is good to know. This proposal will reduce tariffs on some of the items in respect of which a reduction was recommended by the IAC in its report. 
Tariff proposal No. 13 resulted from the IAC's report dated 3 December 1976 on the Australian olive industry. It is not a big industry but it is important to a sector of rural producers. The IAC found that the olive industry is small in terms of output and resources employed, there being probably fewer than 20 growers for whom olive production provides a significant proportion of total farm income. The local industry produces mainly green olives and supplied 70 per cent of this market in 1974-75. Stuffed olives are not commercially produced but there is a small local production of black olives. Imports of green olives were mainly from Spain in containers exceeding 4.6 litres. Previous duties range from 2c per litre to 103c per litre, the rate depending on pack size. In general the smaller retail packs attracted higher rates of duty. The IAC noted that the different levels of protection based on pack size had tended to encourage the domestic production of small packs. To correct the resource misallocations between production of the different pack sizes, the IAC recommended a general  ad valorem  rate of 1 5 per cent for imports of green olives and a minimum rate of 5 per cent for black and stuffed olives. So, this is a little industry which has been assisted. 
The last proposal relates to monochrome cathode ray picture tubes. Less than 50 people were employed in the manufacture of monochrome cathode ray picture tubes in June 1 976. Most of this production was of replacement tubes, a market which was expected to decline in the future. As a result the commission recommended a 35 per cent duty for cathode ray tubes used for replacement for 3 years and a 5 per cent duty for cathode ray tubes used for the manufacture of receivers, a market which is now not supplied by Australian producers. The IAC expected that there would be negligible effects on employment from the implementation of these recommendations. Those are the features of the second Bill. 
Manufacturing industry has a great effect on employment in Australia. It is important that it is efficient, and that it can be encouraged and given protection particularly from countries where the labour force is paid very low wages. I mentioned earlier the textile industry. Honourable members will be interested to know that the wages paid to textile workers in countries such as Malaysia, Hong Kong and possibly Korea are as low as $Ausl2 a month. This factor must have a very serious effect on the industry here because those countries can undercut our price on garments and textiles. So, it is absolutely essential that, providing our industry is efficient, it be protected. 
-This is the second debate which we have had on uranium in the past 2 months. It amazes me that most of the Opposition members approach this subject with gloom. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  accused the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  of wanting to rush into the export of Australian uranium. We, on this side of the House, are concerned with the delay which is taking place in the export of this commodity. We favour some early action by the Government. Australia is in the fortunate position of having 2 1 per cent of the world 's known uranium reserves. This will stand us in very good economic stead as the years go by. As a member of the Government Parties Trade and Resources Committee it has been possible for me to visit many of the uranium mining projects in this country. Most of them are situated in remote areas. The development of the uranium industry will provide expansion of employment in these areas. They are remote from any big cities or towns. Employment opportunities will be great when mining gets underway. 
Markets for Australian uranium exist in the United States of America, Canada, West Germany, Japan and, possibly, Great Britain. If we do not get on with the job of digging the uranium out of our earth and marketing it, great opportunities in this field could be lost. Already, while we are discussing this subject in Canberra, uranium producers from South Africa are in the United States of America endeavouring to sell their uranium to that country. Many Opposition members have put forward the great dangers which exist in the mining and marketing of uranium. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  said that the United States has been using uranium for power purposes for many years. The United States Navy has been nuclearpowered for 2 1 to 25 years. There has never been an accident. Some of the States are 35 per cent nuclear-powered and some of them are 15 per cent nuclear-powered. This has done away with pollution. Nuclear power is clean. It has provided the United States with another source of energy. Great Britain itself generates 15 per cent of its power by nuclear means. 
Nuclear power is on the increase. There has not been one loss of life in the world since the beginning of the nuclear industry. No doubt, great precautions have to be taken by those handling the nuclear product when it is providing power for the sources I have mentioned. Great care has been exercised so far and there is no doubt that those countries which are handling this source of power take these precautions. We in Australia do not have to fear loss of life from the mining of uranium. Some people have mentioned radon gas. Most of the mines in Australia will be opencut mines and there should be no danger from this source. The environmentalists in this country have nothing to fear. Members of the Government Parties Trade and Resources Committee visited the Northern Territory and Western Australia. We came away very impressed with what mining companies are doing in the restoration of the earth which they have uncovered to mine minerals and uranium. 
One matter which concerns me if we do not get busy and market this product is the fact that experiments are being conducted in countries overseas to produce uranium from sea water. In the past 2 weeks, an article appeared in the Press. It stated: 
Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry has announced what it calls 'a great scientific feat' in recovering uranium from sea-water. 
Two private Japanese concerns . . . have been conducting experiments for MITI - 
The power body in Japan-  over the past 2 years and now claim the first successful experiments whereby uranium has been recovered. A total of 149 milligrams of yellowcake have been recovered from SO tons of sea-water based on a uranium absorption method developed by the companies using titanic acid in the process. 
There is proof that this method can be used economically. We could lose sales of uranium which is available in Australia. We should get on with the job, get uranium out of the ground and market it. This country produces 70 per cent of its petroleum requirements. It has to import 30 per cent from Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf. Our own source of supply is diminishing at the rate of about 10 per cent a year. It is estimated, as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  mentioned, that by 1985 we will be paying $2.5 billion to $3 billion to import our fuel from overseas. Therefore, it is essential that we get on with the marketing of uranium so that we can offset the balance of trade which will occur in those years. 
A lot has been said about the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. It is very similar to the first one. It reiterates the judgment made in the first report that a delay in plans for full scale mining is a serious option. Hence it recommends: 
Calculated caution and sequential development, which apparently would not conflict with economic calculations of the complex  factors  of supply of and demand for fissionable material for nuclear reactors. It is of the opinion that, apart from existing small commitments, Australia cannot enter the world market on a significant scale before the early 1980s. Expansion of the  mining  operations from the Ranger to the Jabiluka and Koongarra deposits in the region and to other parts of Australia, based on experience acquired through cautious beginnings, will reduce the impact on the physical environment and allow for adjustments to be made in time, if need be, in relation with the Aboriginal community. Deliberate strategies strongly recommended by the Commission are the immediate creation of the Kakadu National Park in the same region which would protect for all time lands that are of great traditional significance to the Aborigine, and the direct involvement of Aborigines, in the demarcation and subsequent management of the Park. 
The report enters into considerable technical and administrative detail on the environmental controls and monitoring arrangements it proposes should mining proceed. It even recommends that the landscape setting proposed in the environmental impact statement prepared by the Ranger mining interests be substantially altered. It recognises, however, that the Ranger plans were prepared with conscientious concern. It says explicitly that large scale uranium mining would be highly profitable for Australia. It recommends government participation in the marketing of uranium and offers a number of options in the form of statutory controls, noting at the same time the value of freely operating competitive market forces. 
The worst feature of it is that it condones delay and states that we could defer the mining of uranium from two to five years. The report recommends that a national park be created at the Alligator River and ore bodies be separated from the national parks, that they be taken outside the parks. The report makes great play on Aboriginal land rights. In our tour of Western Australia and of this East Alligator River area we did not see any Aborigines. We saw Aborigines when we got to the main towns but in these mining areas we did not see any Aborigines. Apparently the do-gooders and perhaps Friends of the Earth are inciting Aborigines to go out into the mining areas, camp there and suggest that the areas are sacred Aboriginal land. This is a problem that we will have to overcome. 
It was good to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  speak in this House on 24 May when he stated clearly that nuclear safeguards have been under the closest and most careful consideration from the moment that the Government took over the Treasury reins. He made it clear that there was international concern to establish a framework of control for nuclear safeguards and that consultations had taken place with the United States of America, Canada and other countries. This Government is determined that Australia should play an active part with other countries in the search for and achievement of joint solutions. We are going to market uranium. There is a responsibility on Australia to see that safeguards are taken in regard to it because the whole world will be watching our operation. It is essential that we see that these safeguards are taken. 
The Government will impose strict conditions on the overseas use of Australian uranium and will carefully screen importers before releasing it. These conditions will cover the entire civil nuclear industries of the importing countries and ensure that uranium meant for peaceful uses is not diverted to military or explosive purposes. The measures include: careful selection of customer countries; the application of international safeguards to verify that materials supplied for peaceful purposes are not misused; the establishment of additional safeguards through bilateral agreements and active involvement by Australia in international efforts to upgrade safeguards. Let us get on with the job. Let us dig our uranium out of the ground. Let us market it because these safeguards mentioned by the Prime Minister will control our export operations. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 May 1977: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether cancer patients face many problems with transport. 
Do they spend an immense amount of money to travel to clinics for treatment. 
Is this travel expense tax deductible. 
If not, is it particularly severe on country people. 
Will he investigate this matter with a view to making this travel a tax deduction. 
I rise to support the three measures before the House, namely, the Diesel Fuel Tax (No. 1) Amendment Bill, the Diesel Fuel Tax (No. 2) Amendment Bill and the Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Amendment Bill. The purpose of the two diesel fuel Bills is to increase by one-quarter of a cent per litre- from 4.905c to 5.15c per litre- the tax imposed on diesel fuel under the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 1 ) 1957 and the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 2) 1957. The new rates are to apply from 17 August. Customs and excise duties are not payable on diesel fuel if it is used othewise than in propelling road vehicles for use on a public road. However, the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 1 ) 1 957 provides that where such diesel fuel is sold or otherwise disposed of to a person who is not the holder of a certificate from the Minister certifying that the holder requires the fuel for use other than in propelling a vehicle on a public road a tax is imposed. That is referred to in sections 3 and 6 of the Act. The Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 2) 1957 makes similar provisions if the diesel fuel is used by a certificate holder for propelling a road vehicle on a public road. That is provided for in sections 3 and 5. 
Because diesel fuel purchased by certificate holders and subsequently used for propelling road vehicles has been cleared from customs and excise and is therefore outside the ambit of the Customs Tariff Act and the Excise Tariff Act, these Acts are necessary to ensure that all diesel fuel eventually used for propelling road vehicles on public roads is taxed at the same rate as the relevant customs and excise duties. The duties under the Customs Tariff Act 1966 and the Excise Tariff Act 1921 are to be increased by Customs Tariff Proposals No. 24 (1977 and Excise Tariffproposals No. 2 ( 1 977), which were introduced in the House of Representatives on 16 August by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  The Bills provide for consequential increases in the rates of tax imposed by the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 1 ) and the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 2) of 1957. 
The Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Amendment Bill provides for an increase of oneeighth of a cent per litre in the present tax of 2c per litre on liquefied gas used for propelling road vehicles. The increase will apply on and from 17 August 1977. Turning to the background to this BUI, item 1 7c in the Schedule to the Excise Tariff 1921 provides for a duty of 1.26c per litre on most liquefied petroleum gas obtained from unstabilised crude petroleum oU or from naturally occurring petroleum gas. However, there are no customs or excise duties on liquefied gas which is the end product of a refinery process. 
After taking into account a number of factors, including environmental considerations, the then Treasurer, the  Hon.  Frank Crean, announced in his 1974-75 Budget Speech that a tax on liquefied petroleum gas used in propelling road vehicles but not for other purposes was to be subject to tax. A tax was imposed on liquefied gas used in propelling road vehicles by the Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Act of 1974 rather than an excise duty, presumably because excise duties are imposed on the production rather than on the use of a product and because it was administratively easier. A report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'Liquid Petroleum Gas as a Motor Vehicle Fuel' in April 1974 and the sixth report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum entitled 'The Use of Liquefied Petroleum Gas in Australia 1974' discussed the relevant considerations for this tax. 
The rate of tax was set initially at 2c per litre which was 40.7 per cent of the rate of duty on motor spirit at that time. However, when the then Treaurer announced the tax at that time he announced that for at least five years the tax on liquefied petroleum gas would be increased by an amount equivalent to one half of any increase in the rate of duty on motor spirit. In line with this commitment this BUI increases the tax on liquefied gas for road use by half the amount by which customs and excise duties on motor spirit have been increased, as foreshadowed in the 1977-78 Budget Speech and contained in Customs Tariffproposals No 24, 1977, and Excise Tariffproposals No. 2 introduced in the House of Representatives on 16 August 1977 by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife). 
Liquefied petroleum gas in Australia must be of tremendous advantage to this country because we are rapidly running out of gasoline supplies. When one travels overseas, particularly in America, one sees the use of liquid petroleum gas in farm tractors and road vehicles.  1  think it has a future in this country. Estimated Australian reserves of liquid petroleum gas are sufficient for 80 years' supply at the present rate of extraction. If used within Australia this would permit approximately 14 per cent of motor vehicles to be converted to liquid petroleum gas. Increased use in Australia ought to be in high form value applications such as the replacement of the light end fractions produced from crude oil. Fuel oil replacement by LPG merely substitutes a surplus in one product for another. 
As the Royal Commission on Petroleum Products indicated in its earlier reports, because of the increase of imported crude oU as refinery feed stock it is the light end products which are going to be expensive and in short supply. The use of substantially increased quantities of LPG Wil require the creation of new markets and this in turn will take time. Even if the Australian Government felt disposed to turn a large part of the Bass Strait production of LPG into the domestic market there is at the moment no demand for greatly increased supply. Such demand wil take time to generate and needs positive policies for its creation. Indeed, it may be too late to divert large parts of Bass Strait reserves away from the export market. But as already indicated, new reserves of LPG wil be coming on stream in the short and medium term. Now is the time when policies must be formulated for the most beneficial exploitation of these wonderful resources. 
The Royal Commission suggested with regard to both LPG and natural gas that a major objective of policy should aim to ensure the maximum usable consumption of the resources for the benefit of Australian industry, using exports as an initial base load and gradually trading off exports against domestic consumption as internal demand builds up. With respect to indigenous crude oU, Australia has pursued a strong and definite if sometimes inappropriate policy. At the centre of this policy lies the implicit dedication of crude oil hydrocarbons to the national hydrocarbons needs. Australian crude is refined in Australia and its products are consumed by the Australian public. An essential rationale behind such a policy recognised that Australian transportation must have security of supply of petroleum products. Few nations are so overwhelmingly dependent upon long and short distance transportation. Our major centres are separated by hundreds if not thousands of miles. Our domestic shipping is notably expensive. 
Even our cities are sprawling aggregations. All these things place a high premium on transportation hydrocarbons. Only LPG is a feasible substitute for motor spirit between now and 1990. Granting all the dedication that successive governments have applied to the national retention of indigenous crude oil no part of any similar dedication seems to have been applied to LPG. A large part of the nation's crude oil reserves have year after year been exported as if they were self renewing. Liquefied petroleum gas could be the saviour of this country. It could take the place of liquid petroleum in the years ahead. There are a lot of problems to be solved in this field but we are very fortunate to have it here. It is good to see that the Government is taking these measures in preparation for when it becomes a highly usable product in our transportation system. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that a claim was made yesterday by Professor Henderson that delays of up to 16 weeks are taking place in processing applications for unemployment relief? Is this claim a wild exaggeration? Will the Government continue to pursue the weeding out of fraudulent applications for unemployment relief whilst not penalising genuine applicants for relief? 
-This is the third uranium debate that we have had in this House during the past six months and this important subject has been well covered. However this debate on Australia's uranium decision has come about following production of the most enlightening and comprehensive papers brought into this House in my time and possibly for many years. The importance of uranium can be gauged by the fact that every facet affecting the mining, milling, marketing and exporting of uranium has been well covered and researched. Papers were presented by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony),  the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman).  All covered their respective responsibilities in this field. 
It is extremely important to Australia that we should take at this time a definite stand and implement a sound policy for the export of uranium. We have 20 per cent of the world's known resources of uranium and possibly considerable deposits of this ore are yet to be found. I am a member of the Government's Trade and Resources Committee. That Committee has travelled extensively in Western Australia and Queensland and I have no doubt that considerable quantities of uranium have yet to be found. 
The Prime Minister has said that this Government has a high sense of moral responsibility to all Australians and to the community of nations in the development of our uranium under strictly controlled conditions. These conditions have been well set out by the Government but they are well worth repeating. They are the need to reduce the risk of nuclear proliferation; the need to supply essential sources of energy to an energy deficient world; the need to protect effectively the environment in which mining development will take place; the need to ensure that proper provision is made for the welfare and interests of the Aboriginal people in the Alligator River region, and of all other people living in the region and working on the development projects. 
The Ranger Inquiry found that the mining and milling of uranium, if properly controlled, were not a deterrent to the development of Australian uranium mines. In fact there has not been any loss of life in the mining of uranium in Australia. Our opponents say that it is dangerous. It is not dangerous. I repeat that there has not been one life lost in the mining of uranium. Compare this with the mining of coal and other minerals where over past years there has been considerable loss of life. Most of the uranium in Australia will be mined by means of open cut operations. Uranium mining is a perfectly safe operation, as was announced by the recently released Ranger Inquiry report. Opponents of uranium mining enlarge upon the danger from radon gas given off from uranium ore. This would not present a danger in this country. 
There is a need to protect the environment and this is being done by the mining companies. I mentioned a short while ago that we traversed wide areas of the uranium fields in this country and we found that the mining companies were restoring the environment to the extent that it was better than prior to the mining operation taking place. Indeed, we saw trees being planted and the environment being completely restored. We found that to be the situation in relation to all of the mining companies throughout Australia, irrespective of the type of metal being mined. 
Aboriginals will be protected under the Government's policy, particularly those in the Alligator Rivers Region. These protections have been set out in the paper read to the House by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and they include land rights, provision of national parks and also the employment of Aboriginals in those parks. The uranium industry is to be found in the low income and sparsely populated areas of Australia. That industry would create employment. It would not create a great deal of employment, but it would provide jobs for possibly 5,000 or 6,000 people. In fact, it is estimated that after its establishment anything from 3,000 to 6,000 persons would be employed in the industry. 
Uranium mining was carried out successfully and safely in Australia from 1954 to 1971. The amount of ore treated during that period can be analysed as follows- these are interesting figures: Rum Jungle, 863,000 tonnes; United Uranium, 128,000 tonnes; Mary Kathleen, 2,947,000 tonnes; Radium Hill and Port Pirie, 970,000 tonnes. We visited Mary Kathleen only a few weeks ago and we saw the uranium being refined into yellow cake and cast ready for export. The question to be asked is this: Why should uranium mining be less safe now than it was then? We must realise that uranium is being mined on an increasing scale in overseas countries, including United States of America, Canada, South Africa, Nigeria, France, Gabon and the Soviet Union. There is a shortage of energy throughout the world and nations are aiming to conserve energy, including petroleum and coal. Nuclear energy is the most available alternative, and Australia, having excellent deposits, will be expected to supply those less fortunate nations. By providing uranium for export we will be providing jobs, heating homes and maintaining and improving the standard of living in those countries less fortunate than Australia. 
In the time that is still available to me I want to talk about waste disposal. This seems to be a most important item dealt with by the opponents of uranium mining. Radio-active wastes derive from the fission process in nuclear power plants which produces split atoms and releases neutrons. The core of the modern nuclear power plant contains several hundred tons of nuclear fuel, about one-third of which is replaced each year. Chemical processing of one ton of fuel results in 300 gallons of high level wastes. That is reduced to 150 gallons by evaporation. The remaining liquid waste will be converted into 2.5 cubic feet of gas-like solids by the use of well known technology. Today only a limited amount of spent fuel from chemical reactors has been processed to liquid form. In America about 600,000 gallons are stored in tanks. 
Pending a decision on reprocessing in the US and in other countries, high level radio-active wastes from several nuclear programs are contained in the spent fuel rods which are stored in water at the various reactor sites. Waste disposal technology envisages that the liquid wastes will be converted to dry granules and then glassified to form an inert solid material. This solid will then be sealed in stainless steel containers, each of which will hold about six cubic feet of waste material. It is planned to carry out the solidification within 10 years after the spent fuel has been removed from the reactor. After this period elapses less than 0.05 per cent of the original radioactivity remains. It has been estimated that by the year 2000 all civilian nuclear power wastes together from the United States would fit into a single solid cube of 60 feet on an edge. The United States is continuing with its program of establishing permanent waste repositories to be located in suitable geological formations such as salt beds. Also Germany is actively engaged in developing an underground repository. France has developed a facility for convening its liquid wastes into glass-like solids which will go into operation this year. 
Under the timetable of the United States Energy Research and Development Administration it is expected that its first repository will be licensed in 1985 for commercial operation. Presently ERDA is carrying out geological investigations in 36 States. Field work, including drilling, will be carried out in 13 States. In a recently issued report of the Mitre Corporation sponsored by the Ford Foundation, the following statement was published: 
We believe that nuclear wastes can be disposed of permanently in geological formations in such a way that there is very little prospect of material escaping into the environment. Moreover even unlikely failures of repositories in the distant future would not have large consequences to human populations. This is true independent of whether the wastes disposed of are spent fuel or the re-solidified and transuranic wastes left after reprocessing and re-cycle. 
This confidence is based on the fact that during the first centuries of burial the only risk stems from strontium 90 and caesium 137, the activity of which decreases so that after 300 years the initial amount will have been reduced to less than one-thousandth of its original value. In 500 years the initial activity will have dropped to onehundredthousandth of the initial value, that is, the hazard will have essentially disappeared. Containment of wastes for 500 years is not a major engineering problem if one assumes continuation of civilised human activity. The pyramids of Egypt have survived for more than 5,000 years with only superficial damage. The assessment by Mitre has also taken into account nuclear waste products such as plutonium and radium whose activity does not decrease as rapidly as those I have mentioned earlier. In short, the long term hazard of waste burial is the same as from naturally occurring uranium and radium in the earth. 
I want to say a few words about plutonium. Nuclear opponents claim that plutonium is the 'most toxic substance known to man' and that a quantity of plutonium of the size of an orange would be sufficient to give every member of the human race lung cancer. What rubbish! It can be shown that an orange made of plutonium would weigh about 6 lb. Dividing that by the number of people on the planet, namely 4 billion, would produce three-quarters of a micro-gram- that is one-millionth of a gram- which would have to reach each person, presumably in the form of finely divided dust. However, that is not the pathway by which plutonium could reach humans from buried radio-active wastes. The orange example is more appropriate to the weapons testing progran which already has injected large quantities of plutonium into the atmosphere, of which about 10,000 lb have fallen on the earth 's surface. 
Research has traced the path of plutonium in the environment, and its behaviour is very well understood. Its burden on the human lung is 80,000 times lower than the maximum permissible level set for occupational standards. The fall-out risk has not been considered a public health risk. The toxicity risk from buried long life nuclear wastes is associated rather with radium 226, which is one of the nuclear decay products, than with plutonium. Radium, however, is considered to be 2,000 times more toxic than plutonium. A risk assessment of radium resulting from dispersal in water originating at a repository site is extremely small. The toxicity of plutonium results from the fact that it is an alpha emitter, which means that its radiation is absorbed in the air after a few inches, and a sheet of paper is a sufficient shield. When eaten or absorbed into the blood stream it is 10 times less toxic than lead arsenate and many thousands of times less toxic than some biological poisons. 
Another point made by the opponents of nuclear power is that plutonium may be dispersed by terrorists. That possibility has been analysed carefully by  Dr Cohen  of the American Physical Society. Any terrorists who may pursue such an attempt would be quite disappointed with the results of  Dr Cohen's  study. Plutonium is a very ineffective weapon in the hands of terrorists because plutonium caused death is delayed by years and decades, whereas the use of chemical or biological toxins would have more dramatic effects. Also the use of materials others than plutonium would have far less danger for the terrorist himself. 'Plutonium' has become an emotionally charged word used by the opponents of nuclear power to trigger fear in the public mind. However, scientific evidence indicates that plutonium is no more dangerous than a number of other chemicals with which we have learnt to deal. We should get on with the mining, milling and exporting of our uranium as soon as we possibly can. 
I ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources: Is it a fact that in the Budget Speech the possibility of introducing a resources tax was mentioned? Has there been a lot of speculation that such a tax would apply to all resources? Can the Minister state how far the proposition has progressed and inform the House of the present position? 
I rise to sup- f ort the Budget brought down by the Treasurer  Mr Lynch).  It provides for an estimated expenditure of $26, 656m which is an increase of 10.5 per cent over the 1 976-77 Budget. In the last four Budgets in this country under the three years of the Australian Labor Party Government we saw estimated expenditures of $12 billion, $16 billion and up to $22 billion in 1975. This is where the real problem of inflation occurred. There was a 40 per cent increase in budget expenditure in 1975. We are endeavouring to recover from the situation which was created by that Budget and today we are arresting inflation. The main objective of the Budget is the lowering of inflation. The Government in its 1 9 months of administration has brought inflation down from 18 per cent to 10.2 per cent. It has lowered the deficit of $4,000m to $2,2 17m. These are achievements and the people of Australia should be told about them and should know of them. We have done away with the extravaganza of the former Labor Government which set out to destroy the confidence and the economy of the Australian nation. We should never forget that. 
Unemployment is too high but the Government is taking steps to generate employment opportunities. We must never forget that the real commencement of unemployment happened when Labor introduced a 25 per cent tariff cut right across the board. No homework was done. That cut was brought in overnight irrespective of the effect which it might have on the work force of this nation. It put thousands of Australians out of work. In my electorate of Paterson a serious situation developed because of the 25 per cent tariff cut. Goods came into the country which had been manufactured by a work force getting $A 1 2 a month, with no workers' compensation and no social welfare benefits at all. Often the articles were inferior. The whole program of government has certainly reduced the inflation rate and that should be understood by all Australians. This Government has said that until a financial incentive can be provided to Australian workers the opportunities of encouraging fuller employment in Australia are not likely to be realised. Incentives have been given in this Budget to the work force. 
There will be more take home pay. Let us have a look at the taxation incentives which have been given under this Budget. The new tax structure is a simple three tier system. It is based on a standard rate of taxation with the following features: There is no tax on incomes up to $3,750 a year. A standard tax rate of 32c in the dollar will apply to all incomes above $3,750. Incomes above $16,000 a year and up to $32,000 a year will attract an additional tax of 14c in the dollar above the 32c tax base for that portion of taxable income between $16,000 and $32,000. Incomes above $32,000 will attract an additional tax of 28c in the dollar above the 32c tax base. This means a tax rate of 60c in the dollar is payable for that portion of taxable income over $32,000. One may ask: Who benefits by this? Taxpayers at all income levels will pay less tax. Also, 90 per cent of taxpayers will pay tax at the standard rate of 32c in the dollar. The tax gains are set out in the tables which have been provided. 
There is an overtime encouragement in these tax incentives. The taxpayer on $10,000 a year can now earn up to $6,000 a year more in overtime without paying a higher rate of tax. That is an achievement. The penalties of overtime are a thing of the past. This is something which this Government has achieved. It will mean more productivity, more take home pay for the worker involved in industry. Let us look at those who will not pay tax. No tax is payable if a person earns less than $3,750 a year or up to $5,485 a year with a dependent spouse. This means that 225,000 people now paying tax- many of them pensioners and young people- will no longer pay tax. But when does this apply? The new tax scale will apply to all income earned from 1 February 1978. I turn to tax indexation. Full automatic indexation which took effect on 1 July 1976 will be maintained. It will continue to cushion taxpayers from the effect of inflation on their earnings. The new rate scales will be indexed on 1 July 1978. The old tax rates will cease to apply on 31 January 1978. By 1 July 1978 the new tax system will have been in operation for only five months. Therefore, the indexation adjustments made at 1 July 1978 will be half that granted by the annual indexation guidelines. For example, if applying the indexation guidelines would have meant indexation at 8 per cent the new rate scale would be indexed by four per cent as at 1 July 1978. 
Let us have a look at company tax. We have increased company tax and the rate is 46 per cent, an increase of 3.5 per cent. In 1977-78 company tax will raise an additional $200m. However, this will be more than offset by the $600m savings for the corporate sector as a result of the Government's concessions to companies by way of an investment allowance and the trading stock valuation adjustments which were introduced in May 1976. Despite the new rate of company tax the corporate contribution to total Commonwealth tax revenues will fall to 13.4 per cent in 1977-78, compared to 14.4 per cent m 1976-77 and 15 per cent in 1975-76. Revenue from company tax increased by 12 per cent in 1976-77 compared with 1975-76. However, the increase this financial year will be only 6 per cent. In relation to the overall effect, under the new tax system the individual has gained relief from the oppressive tax rates which were fed by inflation and retained to finance the big government of Labor. Since December 1975 government spending has been pruned back. This has enabled the Fraser Government to halt the tax grab and transfer money back to the people. 
The Labor Party alternative is more tax. The Labor record in government is one of massive budget deficits and an unprecedented 89 per cent increase in personal income tax revenue during its first two years of office. Labor failed to acknowledge the need for tax reform by refusing to introduce tax indexation, even though it was recommended by the Mathews Committee which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  established when he was Prime Minister. Labor's proposals are based on the assumption of big spending government and the need for more tax dollars. 
The shadow Treasurer recently foreshadowed increased indirect taxes under a Labor government. He conceded that higher indirect taxes and the old inequitable tax scale which the Lynch Budget discarded would be the source of funding for future Labor programs. By contrast, this Government has been able to give tax dollars back to the individual through its new tax scales. It has restored incentive for initiative and enterprise. The  Australian,  in a final summing up of the Budget, on 22 August stated: 
Even at 32c in the dollar, the system benefits the great mass of wage and salary earners. The closest examination of the new scales today does not shake in the slightest  Mr Lynch  's claim last Tuesday that the vast bulk of people will be significantly better off next year as a result. And the greatest percentage advantage is won, in fact, by people on the low taxable incomes of $6,000 a year and under. 
The article concluded with this very important paragraph: 
All this is certainly no small achievement. It is certainly not a disguised tax gouge, as some critics have tried to suggest. The shortcoming of the Budget is not what  Mr Lynch  has done- it is what he has not done in spelling out that achievement to the people. 
The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  said that this Government has no compassion. The Government's expenditure on social security items in 1977-78 is a big increase on the amount provided for the previous year. The total for the financial year ended 30 June 1978 is $7,250m. This is an increase of approximately 13 per cent on the amount for last year. The increase is thoughout the whole orbit of social security- special social service pensions, repatriation benefits, handicapped people's allowances, aged persons accommodation, children's services and unemployment benefits. This Government has compassion. It has proved that fact by its general treatment of pensioners. 
Commonwealth expenditure on education will be $2,37 lm. This is $21 lm or 10 per cent more than the amount for last year. Yet educationists in Australia are screaming that insufficient funds are being made available for education. Late last year substantial increases were announced to student allowances and benefits. These increases were effective from the beginning of this year. Some living-away-from-home and boarding allowances will be further increased from the beginning of 1978. 
The 1977-78 Budget indicates the Government's efforts to assist the rural sector. In this House in the past few weeks the Opposition has moved censure motions because the Government is not giving sufficient assistance to our great rural industries which bring in 60 per cent of our export income. Those motions have been nonsense. This Government has a great regard for the rural industries and is assisting them. In considering rural assistance, regard is given to the overall economic policies and the need to restrain expenditure in the fight against inflation. The whole Budget is framed in that way. We will establish a rural bank. This has been achieved after thorough investigation by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and other Cabinet Ministers. It will now be finalised. Arrangements are being made with financial institutions so that legislation can be brought forward in this session. This will ease the mind of many primary producers who have asked for the establishment of such a bank for many years. 
I have already mentioned income tax. The tax burden is reduced. The present income tax scales have been changed. I turn now to the situation confronting the beef industry. The present financial circumstances of beef producers give great concern to the Government. Beef producers in Australia are facing a great problem. In 1972 there were 16 million cattle. There are 32 million today. That increase was made possible because of the good prices being paid for cattle in those earlier years. We know that cattle producers are in dire straits now because of the low prices being paid for stock and because of the cost of producing it. I refer now to the marketing efforts overseas. This Government has done everything to increase the volume of beef exported. Despite that, producers are getting a low return for their commodity. Congratulations to the housewives of this country. We consumed 60,000 tons of beef last year. That indicates that the price of beef must still be at a reasonably economic level. The housewives are supporting the industry. 
The Budget provides assistance for the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign. A total of $ IS. lm is provided for the cost of operation of brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaigns in the States and the Territories. In the States and the Territories $4.5m has been provided for compensation of reactor cattle slaughtered as a result of this campaign. The Government, through the Minister, is doing all it can to accelerate the commercial appraisal of the Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation's objective classification scheme. I have had the pleasure of seeing this scheme in operation in quite a few abattoirs throughout Australia. The Government is pressing ahead with this scheme. I feel that it will be of financial assistance to those engaged in the cattle industry. Most of the cattle organisations are suggesting such a scheme at present. The final report will be brought in and I have no doubt that the scheme will be implemented as soon as possible. 
I turn now to the guaranteed floor price for wool. An amount of $3 1.4m is provided as the Government's contribution for wool research and promotion. A similar amount is expected to be contributed by wool growers by way of the levy on wool sales. The Government contributed $10m more than the amount provided in 1976-77. 
I want to give the lie to the Opposition's statement that no assistance has been given by this Government to primary producers. Legislation to amend the Phosphatic Fertiliser Bounty Act was passed during the last session of Parliament. The Budget provision of $40m would enable payment of a subsidy at the rate of $ 12 per tonne on standard superphosphate produced and sold in Australia. The scope of the bounty was extended to include crushed and calcined rock and phosphate materials used in stock feeds. Similarly, the Government has examined the operation of the Nitrogenous Fertiliser Subsidy Act and has agreed that payment of the subsidy be continued at the same rate that applied during 1977. The sum of $12m is allocated for 1977-78. This assistance would enable farmers to plan with a degree of confidence their fertiliser, cropping and pasture programs at a time when they face many difficulties in production and marketing. 
The Government has helped the dairy farmers. The Budget includes an appropriation of $6. 5m for part of the Government's underwriting commitments to the dairy industry in respect of the 1975-76 and 1976-77 seasons. The Government's underwriting arrangements for butter, cheese, skim milk powder and casein have been continued for the 1977-78 season and have been integrated in the new stage one marketing arrangements which came into operation from 1 July 1977. 
The Government will provide $47m during the year for the rural adjustment scheme. That amount, together with the States' contribution of $8m, will give farmers access to adjustment assistance to the value of $5 5 m. The Government will provide $3 7m for debt reconstruction, farm build-up, farm improvement and rehabilitation assistance account, $2m for household support and $16m for carry-on assistance to dairy farmers and beef producers. That will be funded jointly by the Commonwealth and the States. That indicates the assistance which this Government is giving to our great rural industries. 
-My great interest in the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill is because of my association with local government over a 33-year period. So I am very well acquainted with the problems of this third tier of government. I was interested to hear the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  select my electorate of Paterson to give an example of funds which were made available to local government during the reign of the former Australian Labor Party Government when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I believe that he had a general interest in local government and made funds available to the area which, of course, are still being made available. In certain circumstances, more funds than ever have been made available by the present Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission concerning the distribution between States and local government tax sharing entitlements provided under the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976. The present Government in its 20 months in office has introduced three measures of great significance to local government. These are worth mentioning and I bring them forward in this debate. Firstly, there is the provision of a local government revenue supplement based on a fixed percentage- currently 1.52 per cent- of personal income tax. Secondly, there is the establishment of the Advisory Council for InterGovernmental Relations in which local government finds itself in full partnership with the Commonwealth Government and with the States. Thirdly, there is the introduction of fiscal federalism under which the States receive a fixed percentage of personal income tax. This year local government will receive a total of $ 165.3m. This is more than twice the sum of $79.9m made available by the Australian Labor Party Government for 1975-76. So this Government is making more funds available than did the previous 
Administration. It is an 18 per cent increase on last year's allocation. 
After allowing for inflation which is now running at the rate of 10.2 per cent, this money will provide significant real money growth to local shires and municipalities. The States, under revenue sharing, will receive a total of $4,336m this year. This is 1 7 per cent more than last year. It will enable the States to increase their initiatives and meet their financial responsibilities towards local government in their States. The measure of the success of our federalism policies is demonstrated by the fact that last year all States managed to balance their budgets after making substantial tax cuts. Clearly very considerable flexibility of decision making has been restored to the States. Originally local government was entirely the responsibility of the various States. Of course we know that with increased costs and increased burdens expected and placed on local government, they have had to have recourse to other funds. 
This is a very important piece of legislation as far as Australian local government is concerned. It will help to overcome some of the serious budgeting problems which confront shire and municipal councils and their clerks who are the chief administrative officers. Local government is the third tier of government in this country. Over the past two decades it has been faced with providing modem, up-to-date facilities with an outmoded method of financing. As the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  said, the main income derived by councils is from the levying of rates on the unimproved capital value of land under their administration. Modern local government is required to finance and provide parks, sporting ovals, sewerage systems, roads, swimming pools, kerbing and guttering, kindergartens, modern health centres, baby health centres, libraries, aerodromes and many other facilities. Now it has entered the field of and taken the responsibility for running in many instances local government meatworks, electricity supply and the supply of gas. In other spheres local government has taken over the responsibility of providing essential services for their localities. 
These responsibilities provided by local government have lightened to a large degree the burden of State and Federal governments. It seems only fair that a share of the general taxation revenue should be allocated to the third tier. Members of the National Country Party have advocated this for many years. This legislation is a breakthrough in finance and in the provision of funds to assist in overcoming the huge burden placed on ratepayers throughout the country. My concern, as one who has had such a long experience in this field, is that sufficient funds are not being made available. The funds, whilst being of assistance, are not nearly sufficient to offset the high costs being experienced by ratepayers. Nevertheless, it is a good start. Let us hope that greater assistance will be forthcoming in future. 
Local government is the real leader in providing decentralisation of industry and commerce. Where there is live and active leadership in this field there is more activity and progress than in any other form of government. Co-operation between the three tiers of government is essential for local government development. This legislation goes a long way, in a practical manner, towards providing and stimulating this cooperation. I mentioned the decentralisation of industry. Most State governments assist local government in the decentralisation of industry. The New South Wales Government, if it approves of an industry being supported and implemented by a local government authority, will provide 60 per cent of the funds for that industry, provided the local government body contributes 30 per cent and the industry or the firm concerned contributes 10 per cent. I know local government has taken advantage of these funds and is making great progress in decentralising industry throughout our shires and municipalities. 
The Bill provides that in 1977-78 and in each subsequent year the amount of general purpose assistance provided to local government authorities will be 1.52 per cent of the previous year's net personal income tax collections. It is interesting to see the allocation to the various States this year. The break-up is as follows: 
So the States have received an increase in tax allocation far greater than the rate of inflation of 10.2 per cent. It will be interesting to see how these funds are split up among the local governing bodies in particular electorates. I, for one, will be extremely interested to see how local government fares in the seat of Paterson. 
The Bill continues the arrangements which have been instituted by this Government and which have been of great benefit to local government in Australia. In the 1976-77 financial year local government received $140m, which reflected an increase of 75 per cent above the level of general purpose assistance provided to it by the Commonwealth Government in 1975-76. The level of assistance will increase still further, to $165.3m, in this year, as I said earlier. 
Budgeting by local government authorities will be considerably assisted by this Bill, as administrative officers of councils will know very early in their financial year the level of assistance to be received. This is extremely important. If funds are made available after the shire or municipal clerks have drawn up their budgets, they find great difficulty in apportioning the funds so allocated. So it is of great assistance to local government when funds are made available prior to local government authorities introducing their budgets. The amount can be included in the budget and can possibly give the ratepayers some alleviation in the matter of rates. The funds will not have any strings attached to them and can be allocated in accordance with council's own priorities. The provisions and arrangements under the Bill make local government a real partner in the Australian federal system. 
The honourable member for Hughes mentioned the Australian Assistance Plan. Most States, having received additional funds from the Commonwealth under the general tax sharing scheme, have agreed to take on and be responsible for financing the Australian Assistance Plan. I know this is happening in Victoria. I have no doubt that other States will take up this matter. 
It is a pleasure to take part in this debate and to give full support to the implementation of this Bill which will be of great benefit to local government. I congratulate this Government for increasing the funds available to the third tier. That shows the Government has full recognition of the problems which face local government. I know that loan funds have been readily available to local government during the past decade, but we should realise that these loan funds must be repaid. When they are repaid with interest, another burden is added to the ratepayers for the progress which is being provided by local government. So loan funds have not been the problems facing local government; availability of a share of the taxation revenue has. I have no doubt that as the years pass further grants will be made under this legislation by the Federal Government to the States for allocation to local government authorities. Full support is given to the legislation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
Can he say whether Australian potato growers are anxious to prevent foreign diseases entering Australia through the import of overseas potatoes. 
Will he ensure that strict quarantine provisions exist. 
Will he state what precautions are being taken to stop the following diseases entering Australia: (a) golden nematode, (b) black wart, (c) Colorado beetle, (d) ring rot and (e) potato cist nematode. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 22 April 1977: 
1 ) Will he provide information on the latest development of solar energy. 
What funds have been allocated for research into solar energy. 
Will he indicate the present program generally concerning research into solar energy. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it true that no Sydney mail has been received in the Hunter Valley portion of the Paterson electorate and the electorate of Lyne since 26 September last? Is it a fact that at the moment 974 bags of mail for the area, containing 324,000 articles, are held at Redfern, and 139 bags for the region, containing 60,000 articles, are held at Newcastle? Is this causing great hardship to private citizens, business and local governing bodies? Are cheques totalling millions of dollars due to business houses, local government and pensioners held up in this situation? Is it caused by a ban imposed by postal workers at both Redfern and the new mail sorting exchange at Newcastle? Have workers at the Newcastle exchange refused to load mail for private contractors plying in the Hunter Valley to towns between Newcastle and Murrurundi and to towns between Newcastle, Taree and Gloucester? Will the Minister inform the House of the action which has been taken by the Government to overcome this very serious situation? 
-I rise to support the estimates for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and to congratulate the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  on the job he has done since taking over this portfolio since December 1975. It has not been easy because of the high level of unemployment and the refugees coming from Lebanon, Vietnam and other countries. Australia is a magnificent country of 3 million square miles and with a population of 14 million. Immigration must surely be one of the important facets of government in this country. It is doubtful whether most Australians realise what recent population trends have been and what they are likely to be unless various kinds of official action are taken. Firstly, the birth rate has already fallen to a level at which, in the long term, births will be offset by deaths which, of course, means zero population growth. Secondly, the estimated net migration rate in the current financial year is little more than 30,000 compared with only 21,000 last year. Thirdly, in the past 10 years Australia has lost more than one-third of a million people in international movements. Fourthly, the percentage of lost migrants returning home to their original homelands has risen to about 20 per cent of arrivals since 1925. These trends add up to the fact that we face the prospect of an Australia with little or no natural increase in population and only a very small net gain from immigration. Some of the results will be a smaller increase in the labour force, possibly labour shortages in the 1980s and 1990s, smaller numbers of school age children and a progressive aging of the population. Less will have to be spent on education and more on the social welfare system. 
The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has in statements to this House made it clear that there is a numerical decline in what has historically been the mainstay of the labour force- the male worker- and the risk that we shall become increasingly inward looking and a stagnant society. All these possibilities may be accepted with equanimity by some people such as the zero population growth advocates, those who are sceptical of economic growth for its own sake, others who are concerned with conservation and environmental issues and those who feel quite simply that the country needs time to adjust to the post-war influx of immigrants. There is, however, a great danger in allowing long term considerations to be obscured by our all too real short term difficulties which include a large number of unemployed. 
The Green Paper which was produced earlier this year, looks at the matter in better perspective. It looks at three possible programs- small, medium and large. The first would involve a net loss of 1,000 to 2,000 workers a year- mostly workers in professional and skilled occupations -and would arouse little enthusiasm. The second, a medium sized program, with a gross intake of 9,000 to 120,000 a year and a net gain of 50,000, appears to be a good scheme. The third program, the large one, seems to present too many practical difficulties. The Green Paper is a good one. It balances long term considerations against short term considerations and draws attention to the difficulties which will arise very quickly when economic recovery occurs. It is non-committal on the admission of refugees. However, that is another matter and it must be considered in the context of our moral obligation to admit refugees. 
Australia's real population building took place in the post-war period when we embarked on a major program of population building. This program saw the arrival in Australia of more than 3.3 million new settlers who, together with their children born in Australia, have been responsible for approximately one-half of Australia's post-war population growth from 7.4 million to the present 14 million. With the passing of time, this policy has provided dividends for Australia. Various governments in the post-war period have done much to overcome the inevitable difficulties of adjustment to new environments. The appropriations for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs provide for a situation in which the intake of migrants will be rather static. We can see from the Budget Speech that the Government has decided not to set a specific immigration program for 1977-78 but to determine intake on the basis of numbers eligible through overseas selection processes. Provision is made for assisted passages for 16,000 people, which is approximately the same number as that provided for under the immigration policy last year. This means that eligibility will continue to be based on family reunion, refugee status and specific skills. 
The Green Paper presented earlier this year reported that Australia could take an increase of 100,000 migrants a year. However, with the high unemployment situation, that would be unwise at this stage. Nevertheless, migrants do contribute to the economy, increasing purchasing power and trade generally. On the present intake rates it is expected that about 70,000 migrants will arrive m Australia during 1977-78. This is similar to the number which arrived in Australia under our immigration policy last year. Expenditure on the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs will rise by $2.2m this year. It is interesting to note the employment figures in the various immigration offices that Australia has established throughout the world. The greatest number of employees is in the office in London, in Great Britain, where we have 36 people looking after the inquiries about migration to Australia. It is interesting to note, too, that Great Britain is still providing the greatest number of migrants to this country, followed this year by Lebanon, which country has had serious internal problems. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table setting out the numbers of migrants to this country in recent years and the countries from which they have come. The figures, which are the latest available, have been compiled by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-Is  leave granted? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Do you agree? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Would the honourable member like to have a look at it? 
There are 150 officers throughout the world dealing with applications from people desiring to migrate to this country. Migrants come to Australia to settle permanently. Whilst some will send funds to their former countries to assist other family members or to repay expenses incurred prior to their departure, the majority bring substantial funds with them to Australia. Once here, most of them gear their savings to establishing homes and businesses in this country. On 6 August last the Minister stated that in 1975-76 migrants and former migrants sent a total of $3 13m to all other countries. More importantly, in the same year migrants transferred more than $3 50m into Australia. This represented a net gain for the year of $45m. Australia must keep up an active immigration policy immediately the economic 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The Committee has granted leave. 

 The table read as follows- situation improves in this country because migrants have made a great contribution to our development. In the Paterson electorate, I have many migrants from all countries. They are making a great contribution and are well settled. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Minister for National Resources aware of any change of heart by the New South Wales Government following its decision to confiscate the Warkworth coal leases in the Hunter Valley? What will be the consequences for investment in mining if this decision of the New South Wales Government remains unchanged? 
-We are debating cognately the Coal Research Assistance Bm 1977, the Excise Tariff Amendment BUI (No. 2) 1977 and the States Grants (Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave) Amendment BUI 1977. 1 want to speak briefly on the BUI for an Act to establish a Coal Research Trust Account. That BUI has been introduced to encourage an expanded coal research effort in Australia. This Government is establishing an industry financed coal research fund for the purpose of providing financial assistance to organisations undertaking appropriate coal research programs. The Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  will be advised by an expert group on the projects to be funded. Although we have an abundance of coal in Australia. particularly in New South Wales and Queensland, it is nevertheless necessary that we carry on a research program. 
The fund is to be financed by a levy of 5c per tonne on coal production in Australia. That will include coal produced by private companies and coal produced by State authorities. The situation in New South Wales, of course, is that quite a few State coal mines and State authorities are producing coal. I have no doubt that the same situation applies to Queensland and Victoria. The existing excise of 10c per tonne on coal production for the purposes of funding the Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave Fund will be increased to 15c. Two-thirds of the moneys received from the excise will be directed to the Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave Fund. One-third will be directed to the Coal Research Trust Account. South Australia and Victoria do not participate in the existing excise scheme which pays money into the Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave Fund. Arrangements have been made with those two States for them to contribute to the Coal Research Trust Account amounts related to their coal production. The introduction of this legislation necessitates an amendment to the Excise Tariff Act 1921 to increase the excise from 10c to 1 5c a tonne. As all excise on coal currently is paid into the Long Service Leave Fund, an amendment also is needed to the States Grants (Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave) Act 1949 to limit the amount paid to the Fund to two-thirds of the amounts raised as duties of excise. 
In my electorate of Paterson great progress and development are taking place in the coal mining industry, particularly in the area known as Warkworth. It was a great setback to the mining industry in this district, and indeed to Australia, when the State Government jumped in and took over the lease of the company known as Coal and Allied Industries Ltd. The decision by the New South Wales Government to award the coal lease for the Warkworth deposit in the Hunter Valley to the New South Wales Electricity Commission is, to my mind and to the mind of the coal industry, deplorable. The ramifications of this action by the New South Wales Government are very serious indeed. The erosion of confidence generated by this action will have grave implications for investment and employment in the coal industry not only in New South Wales but throughout this country. 
The coal deposits in question had been explored by an Australian company- Coal and Allied Industries Ltd. As a successful explorer, that company might well have expected that in line with convention it would have been allowed to benefit to the full degree as a result of its efforts and the risks it took. This company went into the area, took risks and invested about $5m. Now it has found coal, and the State Government wants to jump in and take over the lease. Expectations of this sort are the very essence of the mining industry in Australia. In the event, the Minister for Mines and Energy in New South Wales has patronisingly said that CAIL, in recognition of its exploration work, has been given the first option to participate as a minority partner in a joint venture arrangement. He has sought to defend this decision by claiming that it is in the national interest and in conformity with State Government policy of Australian equity in new mining ventures. On the face of the statement, the Minister is intent on 100 per cent Aus.tralian ownership at Warkworth. A policy of this sort raises the spectre of the worst excesses of the last Federal Labor Government The effect of that Government's policy was to stifle investment and development in the mining industry. 
The New South Wales Government is inconsistent, if not hypocritical. Recently, with a fanfare of trumpets, the Premier announced that 49 
Eer cent of the new steaming coal deposits had een sold to Japanese interests. This is a higher foreign content than would have been the case at Warkworth if the Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd and Howard-Smith Ltd takeover of Coal and Allied Industries Ltd had proceeded. Of course, a little pressure has been brought by the Premier upon the Minister concerned. They are rethinking the action that they have taken in this instance. It must be borne in mind that the Warkworth deposit is predominantly a soft coking coal deposit. Hence we have the prospect of the Electricity Commission in New South Wales extending its interests into the trade in steelmaking raw material as distinct from coal for electricity generating purposes. All of this demonstrates quite clearly that the motivation of the New South Wales Government is not directed to the maintenance of a foreign investment poliCy however imprecisely it might be enunciated by the New South Wales Government from time to time; nor is the decision consistent with the healthy development of the industry in that State. This action must be interpreted as a move towards State ownership of the coal industry in New South Wales regardless of the cost. 
In the Hunter Valley, where great progress is being made, this action certainly has resulted in a loss of confidence in the industry. The granting of  mining  leases and licences is of course a responsibility of State governments, but when that responsibility is handled as badly as it has been in this case the repercussions on mining investment throughout Australia, whether wholly Australian investment or investment which includes foreign participation, will be profound. They will give rise to uncertainty on the part of investors, Australian and foreign alike. This seems completely counter to the national interest. That uncertainty will affect the decisions of investors to locate theninvestments in Australia. This action by the New South Wales Government will do little to inspire investment in the State coal industry as an alternative to investment in other States. No doubt the Premier of Queensland, who has been mentioned many times in this House tonight, will have received this announcement with glee. It assuredly will enhance the appeal of coal mining activity in Queensland. 
Much has been said in this House in criticism of the Utah Development Corporation. As a member of the Trade and Resources Committee of this Government, I had the pleasure, with my colleagues, of travelling to Queensland to see the development that Utah is undertaking at Blackwater and at Norwich Park. Few members of this House, and indeed of the public of this country, realise just what development this company is providing in this part of Australia. The company has developed a town- Blackwater. It has lovely houses. The people who work in the Utah mines are well housed. The facilities there are second to none in any town in Australia. I suppose that the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who is sitting with me and who was on the tour when we looked at the Utah mines, knows just what this company has done for Blackwater-a town of, I suppose, 8,500 people. 
The company has built railway lines to the mines. It has provided every facility for the men who work on the site. It has provided an  Olympic  standard swimming pool, houses and every modern facility for the men who work for it. The criticism by members of this House of this splendid company, which is developing Australia and which is providing employment for thousands of people, absolutely amazes those of us who had the good fortune to see the operations of the company. It has built roads to the mines and rail.way lines to the mines. It has provided wonderful facilities for the employees, who are earning splendid money and are happy and content. 
I want to say a . little more about Utah Development Corporation. A heading for a article in the  Australian Financial Review  of Thursday, 27 October, said that Utah rips out its tax-free dollars and implied that Utah has avoided paying Australian taxes for which it is liable. This imputation is totally wrong. Taxes, levies and royalties paid to the end of September 1977 to the Australian Treasury total $553m. The article ignored the fact that UDC had approximately $ 166m in retained earnings at the beginning of 1977 which, coupled with the first nine months' earnings in 1977 of $ 116m, gives profits available for dividends of $282m. From this figure dividends totalling $131m have been paid this year, leaving $15 lm in retained earnings in this country. Total UDC dividends since the commencement of its mining operations ten years ago to the end of September 1977 represent 3 1 per cent of accumulated profits before Federal and State Government taxes, levies and royalties are taken. Taxes levied and royalties paid to the end of September 1977 represented 52 per cent of accumulated profits. 
The current dispute with the Seamen's Union of Australia has deferred development of the $250m Norwich Park project which has often been mentioned in this House by honourable members on either side. If the SUA had not delayed the development of Norwich Park, a substantial part of the funds paid by way of dividends to Utah for use in other capital projects and to Utah Mining Australia Limited would have been used in Australia in financing that development. Contrary to the statement m the  Financial Review,  the increased dividend payout by UDC announced in UMAL's latest quarterly report is not due to currency speculation, but to a decline in UDC's capital commitments. In the longer term UDC's capital requirements will increase with the development of deep stripping underground mining operations and the development of the Norwich Park mine. With regard to withholding tax, the 1953 tax treaty between the United States Government and the Australian Government is designed not to avoid tax but to avoid double taxation. Australian companies operating in the United States are treated exactly as UDL is treated under Australian law. As pointed out in the  Financial Review  editorial, nothing Utah has done has involved the slightest deviation from the law. I related those figure to Parliament tonight because companies of this nature too often are run down by people who do not realise their benefit to Australia both in developing the industry and in providing employment for good Australians. 
I mentioned earlier that the coal mining industry in the Hunter Valley is expanding. It has been good to see that in the port of Newcastle a second coal loader has been constructed. Indeed the Broken HU1 Pty Co. Ltd is investigating coal deposits west of the Great Dividing Range in New South Wales at Gunnedah and Boggabri in the north-west. There is every prospect that these fields will be most profitable and will be developed over the next four or five years. It is a pleasure to support the legislation brought down y the Government and it is fully supported by my colleagues on this side of the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Viner)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) Did Indonesia take delivery of 6 per cent of Australia 's exports of wheat and flour during the year ended 30 November 1976. 
Is this market looked on as a growing and developing one. 
Has the ACTU decided to impose bans on the handling of Indonesian flag vessels carrying Australian wheat and flour on account of alleged atrocities in East Timor. 
If so, are Indonesian flag ships being sent to the United States of America for loading wheat to Indonesia. 
Is this a very serious wheat trade situation and what can be done to protect Australia's wheat and flour trade with Indonesia. 
Has the Minister for Trade and Resources seen reports that the  Chairman  of the United States Congressional Sub-Committee on Trade has suggested that Australia should embark on a public relations campaign in the United States to sell more beef? Can the Minister indicate whether such a course would be helpful to Australia's beef producers? 
I wish to bring to the notice of the House tonight the matter of the provision of a handicapped children's allowance for a little girl who resides in my electorate. She is Priscilla Perrett of 26 John Street, Singleton. She is seven years of age and weighs 26 lb. She has undergone a hole in the heart operation.  Her  chest is wired and it has come out in abscesses. She has been denied the handicapped children's allowance. In October of last year a lady doctor from the Department of Social Security visited that little girl at Singleton. She spent about a quarter of an hour with her and said to her parents: 'Look, I am busy. I have to clear off to Sydney. I have some other patients to see'. She cleared off to Sydney, and Priscilla 's parents heard nothing further until the end of January when they were informed that the application for a handicapped children's allowance had been rejected by the Department. Priscilla 's father is employed as a civilian employee at the Singleton Army camp, and his take-home pay is in the vicinity of $1 13 a week. They pay $50 a week rent, and the expenses incurred in taking Priscilla to the Children's Hospital at Camperdown are eating up any funds that they have. They are in parlous financial circumstances. 
I visited that little girl some weeks ago. If ever I have seen a handicapped child, it is that dear little girl. I immediately contacted the Department of Social Security, but I did not have success in persuading the Department to alter its decision. So I took the matter to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  A fortnight ago the Minister took up the matter with the Director-General of Social Security. He was requested to look into the situation to see whether a handicapped children's allowance would be made available to Priscilla 's parents. That request was made a fortnight ago. Although I have made two or three inquiries through the Minister's office about a decision being made on this matter, no decision has been forthcoming. I have been told that it will take at least a fortnight or three weeks before that happens. 
This is a very serious situation and a ridiculous situation. I am asking that an immediate decision be made and that a handicapped children's allowance be made to Priscilla 's parents. They are in dire financial straits. It is a serious situation. She is a dear little girl with a ton of courage. As I said earlier she weighs 26 lb and is seven years of age. Let us hope that what I have said in this speech will come to the attention of the Minister and the Director-General of Social Security and that some action will be taken to assist Priscilla 's parents. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. House adjourned at 10.59 p.m. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Have bans been placed by the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union on the export of livestock, both sheep and cattle, from many Australian ports? Has this ban seriously affected export income and the income of many primary producers? Can the Minister state the present position in regard to this important problem and what ports are available for livestock exports at the present time? 
-Vignerons in the Hunter Valley will suffer from a very large surplus of wine grapes, contributing substantially to the Australia-wide surplus which will probably exceed 50,000 tonnes. This means that vignerons will be unable to dispose of grapes worth approximately $4m. There has been an unexpected swing from red to white wines, although many white grapes will be included in the surplus. However, the major part of the problem can be found in government policy. 
Until various Governments began to tinker with it, the wine industry was able to deal with its own problems without crying for help. Because of section 31a of the Income Tax Act, winemakers had sufficient liquidity to buy grapes even when they were surplus to immediate requirements. Some of these grapes were made into brandy, which had a ready market before excise was increased by an incredible 231 per cent. Wine prices were stable in relation to inflation, ensuring a healthy growth rate. 
Today the wine industry is burdened with the need to pay off its huge deferred tax obligation. The market for Australian brandy has been eroded by big imports of cheap foreigns brands with which it must now compete. Wine makers are selling off young wines to pay off the most urgent bills, and attempting to recover some funds by increasing wine prices in the market place. All of this is almost entirely due to some ideological insistence that all must be taxed on the same basis. It is not even achieving this. Winemaking is not a true secondary industry, to be taxed like all other secondary industry. 
Section 3 1a was simply a system of providing winemakers with the same essential tax treatment received by every primary industry in one form or another. Winemaking is so closely linked with primary industry that in all fairness it must be treated as such. I therefore ask that the Government carefully re-think its position on this problem, and quickly, before those communities so heavily dependent on grapegrowing and winemaking are totally destroyed. The picking of grapes is very labour-intensive. The wine industry exists throughout various parts of Australia. I believe that the Government should have a look at the matter and give justice to the industry otherwise, as I have mentioned in this short speech, it will go out of existence. 
I heartily congratulate  Sir Billy  Snedden on being honoured by  Her  Gracious Majesty the Queen with a knighthood and on being elected  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. He is a great  Speaker  who is held in high esteem, and he brings great honour to this Parliament. I also congratulate my colleague,  Mr Clarrie  Millar, the honourable member for Wide Bay who was elected to the positions of  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker.  Great tribute must be paid to the honourable Philip Lucock, C.B.E., the former  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker  of this House, for his wonderful service over a record term of years- 14 years in all. He is held in high esteem by honourable members on both sides of this House and he has given the Parliament and the nation great service over that time. We thank him very much indeed for his wonderful contribution to the Federal Parliament. 
We have just heard a speech from the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  He talked about the seat of Paterson being gerrymandered. The honourable member has been trying for five elections to get rid of the honourable member for Paterson, and he has failed to do so on each occasion. Indeed, he has failed to such an extent that the majority of the honourable member for Paterson has been increased at every election. It has increased from 7,700 to 14,880. That is a pretty good performance, and it will keep the honourable member for Newcastle busy in the future should he venture into the realm of the Paterson electorate. 
It was very interesting to hear the honourable member for Newcastle talking about the tremendous profits made by private companies in Australia. How different he is to his colleagues who have been prophets of doom and who during debates on matters of public importance and the Address-in-Reply debate have said that owing to depressed conditions companies in this country should not be showing any profits at all. Many Opposition members have made that statement in these debates. I am pleased that the honourable member for Newcastle has told us that companies should be making profits. It is essential that companies make profits. Profit is a dirty word to honourable members opposite, but in our system it is essential for the economy of the country, in order that shareholders can receive a return for the capital that they have invested. 
In this cocky 's corner- that is what honourable members opposite call it, but we are proud of it- we represent in the main the great primary producing areas of this country. One should never lose sight of the fact that 60 per cent of our export income is derived from the great primary industries- our wool, our wheat, our meat, our livestock, our sugar and our coarse grains. 
I will talk to the honourable member for Newcastle later and tell him where my farm is and how it is operating. These industries bring in big export income to this nation. Now, for the first time- this has occurred in the last 12 months- coal has led in individual primary production. Coal exports exceeded a billion dollars at 3 1 December. So, we are very proud to be in a position to represent these great primary industries. 
The beef industry has been in a very depressed state for the last two or three years. We have been able to help the beef producers. I know of beef producers in the Paterson electorate who are not even receiving the equivalent of the social security payment of $48.50 a week. It became apparent that the Government had to help these people and we have helped them. Honourable members opposite know that we have helped these people in the past few weeks. We have helped the beef producers of this nation, contrary to what honourable members opposite have said. We received 34,385 claims for assistance from beef producers of which 3 1 ,700 claims have been assessed and 24,4 1 1 claims have been paid. Claims paid to 24 February 1978 total $37. 84m. This will help the beef producers of this nation who are in real trouble. 
No, it is for other reasons which I do not have time to tell you about now. One feature of our great primary industries which does concern me is that Japan is our major purchaser- a very important purchaser- of all the items that I have mentioned plus our coal, iron ore, salt and other minerals. I say that we as a government should be endeavouring to find other markets for all these products. If Japan were to suffer an economic downturn we could be very seriously affected in this country. We should be developing other markets as fast and as securely as we possibly can. We have to look to Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Iran, and to the eastern bloc European countries such as Yugoslavia, Romania and Hungary. They are all markets for our primary products. We must ensure that we have a very active program and get in and develop these markets because they are of great importance, as is the Japanese market. The Japanese market is taking the major portion of our primary products. Thank God for the United States of America, so far as our cattle industry is concerned, because it has been the greatest buyer of our beef. This year it is taking more than 300,000 tonnes of Australian beef which must be of great benefit- export-wise- and which must assist the home market prices and the cattle producers. 
One thing this Government has done which must be applauded by everyone is to eliminate estate duty. The legislation, firstly, will provide that no estate duty will be payable by the estate of a person dying on or after 2 1 November 1977 in respect of property passing to the spouse, a child or a parent of the deceased person. In addition, no gift duty will be payable on property given on or after that date by a person to his or her spouse, child or parent. Secondly, the legislation will provide that estate duty will be abolished altogether in relation to all property in the estates of persons who die on or after 1 July 1979. Likewise, no gift duty will be payable in respect of any gifts of property made on or after that date. That legislation will be of great benefit to the people of our nation because over the years we have seen valuable cattle studs and sheep studs dispersed because of the estate duty that has had to be paid. The properties have had to be liquidated. Businesses and many people right across the nation have been seriously affected in this way. 
Yes, even the worker. He is also affected. I was pleased to note in  His  Excellency's Speech that it is the policy of the Government to mine, mill and market our uranium with all haste. This country has 25 per cent of the world 's known uranium deposits, and probably more than that because many more fields may yet be discovered. We should be actively marketing our uranium to countries that will use it for peaceful purposes. Uranium sales will increase our export income and at the same time provide other countries with a power source. Another important aspect of our uranium industry is that by the 1980s Australia will require more export income to pay for the petroleum products that we will have to import for Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and other countries on the Persian Gulf to keep our great transport system going. At present our petroleum deposits are being diminished at the rate of 10 per cent a year, and that is a very serious situation. The present Opposition, when it was in government, allowed off-shore exploration and drilling programs to run down to absolutely nought. There were 19 rigs drilling offshore for oil when Labor took over, but when it went out of office only one remained. I am pleased to say that oil exploration in Australia has been speeded up and that more money than ever before is being expended in the program. But I am a little pessimistic, and I am afraid that in the early 1980s we will be importing considerable quantities of petroleum. It is essential from a economic point of view that we develop our uranium exports to provide the funds to meet that situation when it arises. 
The Government is very keen to assist local government and, as honourable members know, in the last Budget 1.52 per cent of personal income tax collected by the Commonwealth was made available to local government throughout Australia. That has had a most beneficial effect on the finances of municipal and shire councils right across the board. In the Government's next three-year program that amount is to be increased to 2 per cent, which will be very gratifying to local government bodies throughout the land. Local government is under real threat from increased costs. Rates have reached saturation point, and people are finding it extremely difficult to meet their rate payments. Conscious of that, the Government is increasing the grants to be made to local government, and I am sure that all honourable members will approve of that action. 
The figures released by Telecom Australia to 31 December indicate that Telecom made a profit of $99m. It has stated that it will use the money to provide more facilities and more telephone exchanges throughout the country rather than borrow finance and pay interest on it. As a member representing one of the great country areas of New South Wales, I believe that more funds should be made available for the provision of decent telephone facilities to people living in the far-flung country areas of my State and the rest of Australia. A telephone exchange at Spicers Creek in my electorate burned down on Christmas Eve and the subscribers had to be hooked up to Wellington on various party lines. The people there have made representations to me for an automatic exchange to be built out of these funds. I forwarded their proposal to the State manager of Telecom and to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and to the present time I have received no satisfactory reply. This is an instance where funds could be made available for an automatic exchange to be built at Spicer's Creek to give the people living in that country area the service to which they certainly are entitled 
Yes. People at meetings which I attend in my electorate think that the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Postal Commission should be amalgamated. I think that is wishful thinking because the situation has gone too far. They are separate entities and it would be very difficult now to amalgamate these two services, to return to the position that existed previously. I want to say a few words about the Federal rural bank which will be established by this Government. I, along with my colleagues, am disappointed that this bank has not been put into operation prior to this time but we are mindful of the great problems that exist in establishing such a bank. It will provide funds for the purchase of land, machinery, plant, fencing materials and other expenses incurred by the person on the land. The money will be made available for 10, 20 or 30 years, commencing at a commercial rate of interest. My colleagues and I would like to see interest rates reduced but we appreciate that interest rates are controlled by the amount of money on the money market and so we accept that this bank must start its operations charging commercial rates of interest. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has assured us that every effort will be made to reduce interest rates on these advances. Young men going onto the land today have great difficulty buying livable areas of land because of the capital cost of land. With the establishment of this bank there is no doubt that these young men will be given the opportunity to borrow money to enable them to get a start on the land. The money will be made available by way of overdraft through the bank with which the parties deal. We feel that the establishment of this Federal rural bank will be of great advantage to young men who desire to take up a career in the great primary industries. 
The Government will also be making finance available to small business through the Commonwealth Development Bank. This has never happened before. Small business has been denied access to the rural bank. Just how important is small business to our community and to the economics of Australia? Small business provides 60 per cent of the employment in this country and if we can help it we can help the employment situation. 
Unemployment is a great problem. Every honourable member who has spoken in this debate and on matters of public importance has mentioned the problem of unemployment. Who started this unemployment? In 1975 the then Labor Government reduced tariffs across the board by 25 per cent without any investigation and without any prior notice. This really commenced the run of unemployment. It has continued ever since. Governments are limited in what they can do to provide employment but this Government has introduced apprenticeship schemes which have been of benefit to young men and women who want to take up a career or trade. There is the National Employment and Training scheme and the Youth Employment Training program under which young people can be trained in skills to gain employment. I am fortunate that although the level of unemployment in my area is serious, it is at a minimum level. I am proud to say that it is either static or it is coming down. I can appreciate, however, that the overall situation is a problem. I am most concerned for school leavers because if these young people leave school and cannot find employment they can get into a situation where they are drawing social security benefits and the urge to work could disappear. This is a national problem. I know the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is doing all he possibly can, with the backing of the Government, to improve employment facilities and opportunities for young people. I support the motion that the Address-in-Reply be adopted. The policies which have been enunciated by  His Excellency  the Governor-General are the policies of this Government. I support them to the hilt, as do also my colleagues of the Liberal-National Country Parties of Australia who form the Government of this nation. 
I ask the Teasurer: Has the American dollar plunged to low levels on the Tokyo foreign exchange market? Is it a fact that a high percentage of Australia's expansive trade with Japan is contracted in United States of America dollars? What effect will this have on our export income from Japan if we have not clauses in these contracts giving us protection against a downturn in the exchange rate? Can the Minister clarify this situation? 
Can the Minister for Trade and Resources clarify for the House the outcome of his discussions in Japan concerning the desire of the Australian beef industry to increase its sales of beef on the Japanese market? 
-A fortnight ago in the Lower Hunter region the biggest flood for many years occurred. The flood caused tremendous devastation to farmers in the Maitland district and to those living beside the Williams and Paterson Rivers. The farmers in the Lower Hunter area are very large suppliers of vegetables to the markets in Newcastle and Sydney, and because of the tremendous and incessant rains that have fallen over the past five or six years they have experienced a number of floods. It is estimated that in many cases they have lost crops of potatoes, carrots, cauliflowers and other vegetables valued at upwards of $4,000. In past years farmers whose land has been devastated have been able to obtain loan funds at low rates of interest, but the stage has now been reached where they are unable to service those loans. What they require now, following this last disaster, is grant money to enable them to buy seed and fuel, repair their fences and employ labour so that they can get back into production. 
I repeat: Grant money is required by these farmers to enable them to achieve a viable state and get back into production. Where they have no income as a result of this disaster they are entitled to social security payments, but those payments last for only a few weeks. They should be extended until such time as the farms are in production once again. Not only has my area been affected but also that of the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  Gloucester and Dungog have suffered severe flooding and farmers there have lost crops and are in serious plight. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  together with members of the Opposition from the New South Wales State Parliament, visited this area last week and he is well acquainted with the problems faced by the farmers. I too covered the area on a charter flight and can say that the disaster is very serious. I am asking the Government to view it seriously and to make grant money available to farmers whose lands have been devastated. As I said, it is no use making money available to them at low rates of interest because they are unable to service their present loans. To incur further loans would be disastrous financially for them. This is a serious economic problem for the city of Maitland and the farming area in the Lower Hunter. As a result of my speech tonight I hope that those farmers will get some sorely needed assistance. I hope that the Minister and the Government will view the situation seriously and ensure that that assistance is forthcoming. I might add that dairy farmers in the area also have been affected. Their output of milk has been seriously affected. Nevertheless they have some income and are thus prevented from receiving any social security payments or assistance. They too are facing serious problems. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Resources: Why is a trade delegation from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics visiting this country at present? What are the prospects of sales of Australian beef to the USSR? 
-I am pleased that this legislation has been brought before the House. It was mooted in October last. It was promised during the election campaign. It is good to see that promise come to fruition. It will be of great benefit to the community. The purpose of the Bill is to amend the Commonwealth Banks Act to enable the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia to lend to all kinds of businesses. The present restrictions which confine lending to rural, tourism and industrial sectors will be removed. The amendments will enable the Commonwealth Development Bank to extend its lending to the establishment and development of undertakings in business sectors such as retail, wholesale, professional services, entertainment and service industries generally, something that previously has been sadly lacking. As at present, the Bank will continue to be required to give emphasis to providing finance for all small business undertakings. 
I should like to make it clear that the Government attaches considerable importance to the small business sector in Australia, exemplifying as it does the essence of the free enterprise system. The Government recognises that small businesses are a vital source of innovation and entrepreneurial spirit, thereby giving vigour and drive to the private sector of the economy. Small businesses are usually defined as those which are wholly owned and operated by individuals or persons in partnership or by a proprietor company within the meaning of a companies Act, and more often than not they are managed personally by the owners. Frequently they are defined as businesses with fewer than 100 employees in manufacturing and fewer than 20 employees in the retail, wholesale and other tertiary activities. 
According to recent statistics the small business sector encompasses about 200,000 enterprises in manufacturing industry, wholesale and retail trade, with a further 150,000 enterprises in the building, transport and other tertiary areas. Overall, excluding primary production, the small business sector comprises some 350,000 enterprises- over 90 per cent of all businesses- and employs nearly 40 per cent of the labour force, involving about 2 million people, as previous speakers have indicated. The importance of small business to the economic and social fabric of Australian life is greater than that indicated by the statistics. The small business sector provides a productive outlet for the energies of that large group of enterprising people who wish to be independent of large organisations in building their financial future. 
Small businesses add considerably to the variety of products and services offered to the consumer because they can nourish in a limited or specialised market which would not be worthwhile or economic for a large firm to enter. 
In an industry where the optimum size of the production unit on the sales outlet is small, the most efficient form of business organisation is often a small firm. In an economy in which larger multi-product companies are common small businesses provide competition, both actual and potential, and facilitate the proper working of the price mechanism in the market place. In this way they contribute to the efficient working of the economic system as a whole. Many small firms act as specialist suppliers of parts, subassemblies or components produced at a lower cost than could be achieved by the large companies which purchase them. Small businesses are an important source of innovation in products, techniques and services and as such challenge and stimulate the more established leaders of industry. 
The spirit of independence and initiative fostered by small business is an essential element of our democratic society. Small businesses and individual enterprises contribute significantly to the national wealth and in so doing create opportunities for employment and assist in developing the nation's living standard. Governments of most industrialised and developing countries, including this Government, recognise the importance of small business in their economic structure and to varying degrees have developed programs to assist them. The United States of America has a declared national policy that free competition which is basic to economic well being cannot be realised unless small business is encouraged and developed. In the United States small business receives special taxation and financial assistance, loan and equity finance, management assistance and assistance with government procurement. Japan, for instance, has a small business policy similar to that of the USA and has developed a variety of programs along similar lines. The same applies to small firms in Canada. The Canadian Government provides equity and loan financing through the Federal Business Development Bank and is involved in providing venture capital. The Federal Business Development Bank is also responsible for the operation of a small business consulting service and sponsors a large number of management training courses specially designed for small business. 
In Australia we are developing policies aimed at overcoming some of the inherent disadvantages facing small business using self-help principles but avoiding an extension of direct government involvement in private enterprise. In particular, this means removing unintended and undesirable effects of legislation or procedures on small business. The Government recognises that it needs to give small business the opportunity to compete and grow in a business climate of increasing confidence and prosperity. Small businesses are very diverse, operating in all sectors of the economy. Their problems are not homogeneous, and they have been affected in different ways by adverse economic conditions. In these circumstances the Government is convinced that as economic recovery proceeds, the vitality of the private sector generally and of small business in particular will be enhanced. During the time of office of the Whitlam Government real wages outstripped productivity, and the profitability of business enterprises was squeezed. Government spending grew rapidly, and large public sector deficits led to excessive monetary expansion. Inflation, loss of confidence among consumers and businesses alike and unemployment were the results. 
Inflation threatens the very survival of many small businesses. Directly or indirectly, its effects are felt through lack of orders, higher interest rates and a worsening financial position, all of which contribute to a loss of confidence. In the context of recent economic conditions claims have been made that the trade credit position of many small firms has deteriorated sharply. This suggests that in some respects small businesses may have suffered more in recent years than larger companies. Small firms suffer because they are squeezed by larger suppliers and are unable to press for prompt payment by their customers. During difficult periods large enterprises may be able to absorb in various ways increased costs and falling sales. The smaller business often does not have this capacity. For example, small business generally has fewer sources of funds on which to rely for financing its activities. Unlike public companies, private companies are prohibited from soliciting equity and debenture funds from the public. In addition few institutional sources provide risk capital to assist in financing growth and development. 
The success of the economic strategy that has been pursued for the past 2% years has done much to improve the situation of the small business sector. However, against the background of particular problems facing small business, I now want to mention some of the steps that this Government has taken to assist small business. In the taxation field we have introduced a number of measures to help restore small business to economic health. In 1976 we introduced an investment allowance which applies at a rate of 40 per cent until the end of this financial year. The allowance will apply at a rate of 20 per cent from then until 30 June 1985. This incentive applies to individual items costing $500 or more and includes owner-used plant and equipment as well as that leased and acquired under hire purchase arrangements. The allowance is available to all businesses, including small businesses, although I am mindful of representations from small firms that have sought a reduction in the level of the monetary limit to which I have just referred. 
The trading stock valuation adjustment introduced in 1976 has contributed to improved cash flows. Other taxation measures which have been of benefit to small businesses include the indexation of personal income tax and the adjustments of personal income tax scales introduced in the last Budget that have been in effect since the beginning of February this year. Given that 75 per cent of all small businesses are unincorporated, a large number of them will benefit from these taxation measures. The Government has recently made further moves to lighten the tax burden. We all know that these scales were introduced and are operative in this financial year. We promised in the recent election campaign to phase out estate and gift duty. This commitment will be given effect in legislation to be enacted during the current session of Parliament. Family businesses, many of which in the past have had their very existence threatened by the untimely death of one or more of their principals, will appreciate the significance of this initiative. 
As mentioned previously, the Government is very conscious of the role played by small businesses in providing competition in the market place. It is essential that small businesses are encouraged to grow. This acts as a dynamic influence in the national economy as well as providing a stimulus by way of innovating a new product development. Small businesses have a great problem in accumulating capital. The cash that they accumulate is used up in paying provisional tax. This measure to give small businesses an added opportunity of gaining finance from the Commonwealth Development Bank will be of great benefit to them. Of course they will need to have exhausted every other avenue of obtaining finance, but if they are viable these funds will be made available through the Development Bank. I have very much pleasure indeed in supporting the Bill. I am pleased to note that the Opposition is substantially supporting it. It has moved an amendment to the Bill. But I think that honourable members opposite know in their hearts that this Bill is good for the Australian economy and that it is good for small business. Honourable members on this side of the House give it their full support. 
Has the Minister for Trade and Resources seen reports which suggest that Australia could lose some if its share of the United States beef market as a result of alleged mismanagement by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation? Has he seen also claims of a large black market in meat export entitlements? Can the Minister tell the House whether there is any substance in these allegations? 
-Last year, we participated in three debates about uranium. Now we are participating in a fourth debate on uranium this time on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill. So honourable members on both sides of the House have had a number of opportunities to weigh up this very important problem. The main purpose of the Bill that we are debating is to amend the Atomic Energy Act 1953. It is a package of legislation giving effect to the Government's decision on the further development of Australia's uranium resources. Amendments to the Act contained in the Bill, in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding which used the Atomic Energy Act as its legislative basis, will enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission on behalf of the Commonwealth to participate in a joint venture with Peko EZ. The Governor-General in his Speech when opening the Parliament this year mentioned that the Government would be proceeding with the development and export of Australia's uranium resources in a carefully regulated and responsible fashion with full regard for the population, environmental control and the welfare of the Aboriginal people. Long and careful consideration has been given by the Government to the amendment to the existing legislation. 
Whether we like it or not, we are in the atomic age. I am amazed at the violent opposition from the members of the Opposition in this House, particularly in view of the support given by the Labour Government in Great Britain to the extension of atomic energy for power purposes. Power generation from uranium represents 1 5 to 20 per cent of the total power generation in that country. We in Australia are very fortunate to have 25 per cent of the world's known uranium resources. It is important because the resources in our petroleum fields are being reduced at the rate of 10 per cent a year. By 1982 or 1983 we will be faced with a very serious balance of payments problem. We will have to import petroleum products from the Persian Gulf, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Bahrain, Qatar and other countries in that area. We know that petroleum from this area costs about $13.60 a barrel as compared to the cost of Austraiian produced oil of $6.30 a barrel. One of the features of this country is that if we mine, mill and market our uranium we will have the financial resources to meet our commitment in the petroleum fields overseas. It is interesting that this week a delegation from Iran came to this country. Some of us were fortunate enough to have a luncheon with members of that delegation and to hear that in 25 years time they anticipate that petroleum resources in Iran will be nearly exhausted. They have foresight; they have come out here to talk to our Government and to the people involved in developing our uranium resources about the possibility of our supplying uranium to them in the foreseeable future. They want to construct nuclear-fired power stations throughout their country in order to prevent this great problem. So there will be a world demand for uranium. 
In Australia there has not been one loss of life among those involved in the mining of uranium. Despite what members of the Opposition and others who oppose the mining of uranium may say, there has not been one loss of life. Indeed, in the history of uranium use throughout the world, including the manufacture of nuclear weapons, there has been a known loss of only three lives and that was in the United States of America. As I mentioned earlier, whether we like it or not we are living in an atomic age. For the last 2 1 years America has had nuclear powered submarines which have been successful in both peacetime and wartime. It is absolutely ridiculous to say that the industry is a new one. It is one that has been proven; it is one that has been used for peaceful purposes, for power generation, and there is no doubt that it can be used for war purposes. Poison gas was used in World War I. Was poison gas used in World War II? No, it was not. The nations of the world know the dangers of nuclear war. I do not think that we should expect one to occur. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has proposed safeguards to be observed by those overseas who will purchase our uranium, which will leave this country in the form of yellowcake. It has been an experience for me, as a member of the Government Members Committee on Trade and Resources, to visit many of the uranium fields of this country and to see the development that is taking place. We visited the Mary Kathleen mine where we witnessed yellowcake being processed. We saw the uranium rock being mined, milled and processed into yellowcake. 
The export of yellowcake is one of Australia's great assets. Uranium poses no danger to this country in this form but I agree with those who claim that necessary safeguards should be taken by overseas countries when they are using uranium in reactors to produce power in their power stations. In Australia the development of uranium will provide employment. I know that it will not be a huge amount of employment, but the development of sparsely populated areas of country which is practically useless for pastoral or agricultural pursuits will provide jobs for many miners. The servicing of these uranium fields also will provide many jobs. They will require all sorts of equipment and servicing arrangements. 
It will produce quite a lot of jobs. It will produce more jobs than honourable members opposite anticipate. Some members from that side of the House want to stop the men working on our uranium projects. They are trying to stop altogether the export of uranium. 
World energy needs will rapidly grow in the next few decades, although there may be some question about the rate and extent of this growth. What is certain, however, is that the present world consumption of about 6 billion tons of oil equivalent will increase to about twice to three times this level by the year 2000. This will happen even if the maximum efforts to conserve energy are applied by industrial countries, as they should be, and if the most efficient methods for conversion and final utilisation are developed throughout the world. It should be pointed out in this context that energy conservation measures also have a long lead time and are in some cases capital intensive. 
The developing countries are the ones that will be interested in purchasing uranium. They represent more than half of today's world population, and they are unanimous in holding that the glaring gap between the standards of living of their nations and of the industrial states must be reduced. This would require an expansion of energy consumption which, by the turn of the century, would raise their relative share far beyond the current level of 10 per cent of the total. It is against this background of growing needs that the role of nuclear power must be assessed. In the short term nuclear power offers no immediate substitute for oil, gas and electricity production and represents for many countries deficient not only in hydrocarbons but also in coal resources a substantial alleviation of their dependence on imports. 
We are fortunate in this country that we have abundant quantities of coal for fuel generation. So we do not want to use uranium for fuel generation at all. We have plenty of fossil fuels, but we want to mine and export uranium. In the longer term uranium holds out to the world a technologically mature solution to the increasing energy needs and places a safety net under future development of mankind, for the ultimate potential of solar energy remains difficult to assess and nuclear fusion is still a very important matter. It is true that the present objectives of many nations in nuclear power development have become lower than they were a few years ago. This is due to the economic recession, efforts at conservation and delays in licensing and constructing power plants, sometimes due to public opposition. One member of the Opposition mentioned this evening that there has been a decrease in the number of power stations constructed. In the United States of America some states are using nuclear power for generation of electricity and for power plants to the order of 35 per cent. In the country as a whole the use of nuclear power for power-generating needs varies from 10 per cent to 35 per cent. For the world as a whole the indicated ranges of nuclear power capacity are of the order of 200,000 megawatts for 1980, 900,000 megawatts for 1990 and 1,300,000 megawatts for the year 2000. The share of nuclear power which is today less than 10 per cent of electricity and less than 3 per cent of primary energy will grow to some 35 per cent of electrical energy and 15 per cent of primary energy by the turn of the century, that is by the year 2000. 
Some arguments have been advanced that since we are dealing with such relatively modest fractions of total energy needs, nuclear power might be indefinitely deferred and conventional fuels might take up the slack until all doubts and uncertainties are removed. We know that throughout the world there is a pending shortage of liquid fuels. Even the present rninimum nuclear objective would result in a saving of 1.5 billion to two billion tons of oil per year by the year 2000, which is more than half of present total world oil consumption. Parenthetically, we should recall that when the demand for oil becomes greater than the supply, one can foresee the price-rocketing which will follow. If nuclear power is to provide a general insurance against energy shortages beyond the end of the century, it must rest on a solid basis of experience. This can come only from the operation of a large number of proven reactor types. Avenues such as breeding through various fuel cycles, increasing the utilisation of uranium resources by close to two orders of magnitude must also be kept open. Development of reactors for high temperatures would permit nuclear power to go beyond electricity graduation. 
We know from experience how long it takes for a new power technology to make a significant contribution to the energy market and to build its fuel and, more importantly its human infrastructure. To argue that these infrastructures could be dismantled and suddenly called back into being when the need for them became acutely felt is to fly in the face of all scientific and technical advances. Another point which should be stressed is the extreme variety of energy situations prevailing both in industrial and developing countries. They range all the way from situations in countries such as Italy, whose total indigenous fuel resources would hardly be sufficient to meet two years of consumption at present rates, to situations in the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics with vast oil, gas and coal reserves. Hence the nuclear policies of these countries are bound to be different. Nevertheless, because of the diversity of immediate concern there seems to be unanimity on the long-term need for more energy. We will need all available energy sources. Therefore research and development of new energy sources should be encouraged. 
I mentioned at the commencement of this speech that we in Australia are very fortunate in having 25 per cent of the world's resources of uranium, that is, in yellowcake form. If we do not get busy and market this uranium we could be beaten to the markets which are offering. For example, recently South Africa sold some of its uranium to the United States of America. At present we have opportunities to sell our yellowcake to Canada, the United States, Japan, West Germany and many other countries. If we do not get off our backsides, get into this industry and market our yellowcake, we could lose out. For instance, as I mentioned in a speech last year concerning nuclear policy, the Japanese are conducting experiments to distil uranium yellowcake from sea water. The cost involved is very very high- about $900,000 per lb compared with our cost of $40 or $50 per lb. With technological research and with efforts of this nature there is no doubt that they could find a way to produce it economically. This would be detrimental to our opportunities to market uranium. 
We support the Bill. We deplore the violent opposition which has been put up by the Labor Party in this House. Members of the Opposition talk about waste disposal. It has been a problem, but the latest techniques indicate that the waste from nuclear stations can possibly be used for fertilisers, chemicals and medicine. It is anticipated that in the years ahead technical knowhow will devise ways and means of eliminating waste altogether. Where atomic waste is stored throughout the world it is monitored by a worldwide body. That body knows where all the waste is located. As one speaker said in this debate, it is buried under the sea in steel cylinders and glass containers. It is monitored. I have no doubt that the problem of waste disposal will be eliminated altogether. 
There has not been the loss of one life caused by nuclear experiments throughout the world. I have had the pleasure of taking part in several debates on this matter in different places. I have had people tell me that 30 or 40 Indians in some part of the United States of America developed cancer as the result of an atomic reactor being sited nearby. We hear all this harebrained opposition and such ideas being advanced. A smokescreen is being put up. We are in the atomic age; let us act like responsible people. The eyes of the world are upon us. Let us get busy with the mining and marketing of our uranium. Even after this Bill is passed by the Parliament- it allows for the development of the Ranger uranium deposit- it will be some years before any uranium is produced from the field. So let us act now and get on with the job of mining, milling and marketing our uranium. 
During the visit of the Minister for Primary Industry to the International Monetary Fund meeting in Mexico City last week where he represented Australia, did he see any signs of a lessening in levels of protection which might signal greater access for Australia's primary produce, especially dairy products and beef, to world markets? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the Minister's answer to a question asked in the House on 10 May regarding the possibility of the passing of the Bentsen counter-cyclical Bill in the United States. The Bill deals with Australia's beef imports to the United States. Will the Minister inform the House on the progress of the Bill? What action has the Australian Government taken to inform the United States authorities of the serious effect such a Bill would have on Australia 's cattle industry? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen newspaper reports indicating that there will be a fall in world wool supplies next year? Can the Minister say what effect this will have on the Australian wool industry insofar as stocks are concerned and the general effect on returns to wool producers? When does the Government plan to announce the wool floor price for the coming wool season? 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of a report on the Australian Broadcasting Commission news this morning that President Carter has stated that he will not allow any further beef imports into the United States this year and that there will be no unrestricted flow of beef into the United States next year? Can the Minister advise the House whether this announcement will mean a cutback in access for Australian beef to the USA? Will any new restrictions apply to the additional quota that Australia gained earlier this year? 
I rise to support the Bounty (Agricultural Tractors) Amendment Bill. Recent and planned amendments to bounty rates mean an increase in the bounties for larger tractors and a reduction in the bounties for smaller tractors. These changes were recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission to bring about a more uniform rate of effective assistance of approximately 25 per cent as from 1982. The Bill currently before the House provides for a substantial increase in money terms in bounties on upper heavyweight tractors above 105 kilowatt power, none of which are wholly manufactured in Australia as yet. The bounty available from 1973 to 1976 on all tractors above 67 kilowatt was $1,560. This Bill increases this amount for example, to $2,465 for a 106 kilowatt tractor and $3,019 for a 130 kilowatt tractor. 
The extent of this increase in real terms depends upon whether we compare the new bounties with real levels prevailing in 1973 or 1976. The bounty in money terms remained unchanged in that period but inflation of costs and prices accelerated the import price index issued by the Reserve Bank of Australia in respect of machinery, except the electric group, between the March quarter of 1973 and the March quarter of 1977. The index rose by 91 per cent between those March quarters. This is the index that the Government intends to us to adjust the new bounty levies from time to time. Hence, if we compare the new bounties with the bounties the Government originally provided in the March quarter of 1973, we see that the new levels are actually lower in real terms for tractors up to about 130 kilowatts in power, with a slight increase for those tractors above that power, after allowing for inflation between 1973 and 1977. For example, the bounty available for a 1 10 kilowatt tractor is 15 per cent lower. Taking into account the inflation between 1977 and 1 978. the fall in real terms would be larger. 
For small tractors, the situation is complicated by the new larger bounties being phased in in three States between 1977 and 1982 under the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Amendment Bill 1977. In the initial stage, 1977 to 1979, the bounties are lower than the level set in the period from 1973 to 1976 for tractors up to 34 kilowatts. The bounties are higher for those above that power. However, by the time the last stage is reached, 1982 to 1984, the bounties will have been phased down so that they are lower than the 1973 to 1976 levels for tractors up to 66 kilowatts but still higher for those above that power range. 
The total sale of wheeled tractors fell from 21,158 units in 1975-76 to 20,667 units in 1976-77. However, sales of tractors over the 105 kilowatt level rose from 1,374 units in 1975-76, or 6.5 per cent of the total tractor sales, to 1,499 units in 1976-79, or 7 per cent of the total sales. Of course, this was due to the great increase in wheat acreages planted in this country. Huge areas of countryside were planted with wheat and this required tractors with greater horsepower. 
Nearly all big tractors were imported, with Chamberlain-John Deere Pty Ltd and International Harvester Australia Ltd accounting for nearly 50 per cent of the imports. In 1975-76, the imports accounted for only half of the Chamberlain sales but two-thirds of the company's profits. It should be remembered that the Chamberlain company was manufacturing tractors on its own account at Welshpool in Western Australia. The company then received great assistance from the American John Deere organisation which joined it to form a joint company in Australia called Chamberlain- John Deere Pty Ltd. More than 10 firms supply the market with tractors over 155 kilowatts, offering 40 models of widely different power and design. Some foreign distributors have come into Australia to sell their own tractors. For instance, the United States-made Steiger tractor is one of the biggest horsepower tractors operating in our grain belts. Steiger marketed its tractors through John Shearer Ltd, an Australia firm in Adelaide. But when Shearer sold some 78 tractors in seven months, the Steiger company decided to come to Australia and set up its own operations. 
The same thing has happened in respect of other types of tractors. For instance, the Versatile tractor is a very big horsepower tractor. The company appointed a farm agent in the Moree district of New South Wales who was a very successful operator. The American company was so impressed with the marketing operations in this country that it established itself in Australia to sell these big machines. Despite the competing sellers, mark ups can be high. There were cases of tractors being imported into this country for a landed cost of $30,000. They were being sold to farmers for $60,000 and $70,000. Some tractor companies have been competing in ways other than price. For example, they have been offering farmers and their families free trips overseas with an associated income tax advantage for those farmers who buy machines under this policy. 
Australia's farm machinery industries generally have been in recession. Recently they have been retrenching staff and have been offering big inducements to buyers of their machines. One of the problems with this business in Australia is that we have fluctuating seasons with the result that these companies cannot get an even flow year by year. Their operations are subject to fluctuations. This has stopped other machinery firms from manufacturing these bigger horsepower tractors in Australia. For instance, quite a few companies in the United States of America indicated some 18 months ago that they were prepared to manufacture tractors in Australia. However, they were frightened off by the variable seasons that we experience in this country and they have not taken advantage of a possible bounty to manufacture in Australia. Several small local firms have found it profitable to assemble tractors over 105 kilowatts in power in Australia and to undercut the import price by some $ 10,000 to $20,000. 
The local firms operating in Australia, as mentioned by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  are Phillips at Merredin in Western Australia, Upton Engineering in New South Wales and James Nagorka in Victoria. The companies import most of the components, nearly all duty free. They are only small fish in the market. Nevertheless, they are assembling these machines in Australia. The machines are of the large horsepower type and are reasonably well accepted. The main local content in these instances is the chassis and the labour for assembly which represents only about 40 per cent to 50 per cent of the total cost. As these machines are below the 55 per cent local content, these firms currently would not be eligible for any bounty under section 6 of the Act. To achieve 60 per cent to 65 per cent local content would require manufacturing in Australia the major drive line components which is apparently not viable at the present time. The various bounties that are made available in respect of tractor manufacture in Australia are set out very clearly on pages 2 and 3 of the current Act. The bounties that are payable for the various grades and types of horsepower, starting right from the bottom to the high horsepower or high kilowatt machines, are shown in the Act. 
The major farm organisations have been pressing the Government recently to shift the means of protection for the Australian farm machinery manufacturers from tariffs to bounty so as to reduce the cost to the farmers. The Government is hesitant about doing this in the foreseeable future as the large budgetary costs would then have to be borne by the Government rather than by the end user. It is good to see that the Government is prepared at all times to provide a bounty for the manufacture of farm tractors in Australia because it is important that this nation be independent in relation to farm machinery. It is also very important from an employment point of view. The International Harvester company and Chamberlain-John Deere Pty Ltd provide employment for thousands of Australians at their plants and service organisations provide these companies with tyres, batteries, generators and other accessories which are made in Australia by Australian labour. 
It is pleasing indeed to take part in the debate on this Bill, which of course the honourable member for Adelaide has indicated is not being opposed by the Opposition. The Opposition realises that for the good of Australia we should have a viable tractor manufacturing industry. It is interesting to note that the large horsepower tractors coming into Australia come in duty free. This is one of the reasons why the bounty on the large horsepower tractors manufactured in 
Australia has been increased by the Government. I am delighted to note that the Government is keeping up with the situation. It is hoped that the Australian manufacturers will provide a bigger percentage of the large horsepower tractor market in this country. I support the Bill. 
I am sorry that I have caused this little problem. I was of the opinion that a member of the Opposition would speak before I made my speech. When that did not happen the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  jumped to his feet and received the call. I apologise for what happened and I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate. 
The purpose of this Bill is to establish an Australian Overseas Projects Corporation to assist 
Australian firms to compete for overseas development projects. The Bill was formulated as a result of the growing commercial interests in overseas projects. The Government received a number of requests from Australian firms for support, assistance or direct participation in various development projects. At the same time several of the major sector industry organisations made representations to the Government requesting the establishment of a greater degree of co-operation between the Government and industry in the overseas projects area. It became apparent to the Government that the present ad hoc arrangements for considering each request on a case by case basis was not a satisfactory way of providing continuing government support to Australian exporters in this field. So during 1976 and 1977 the Government undertook a thorough study of the overseas projects market. Submissions were sought from private enterprise groups and the Trade Development Council. Therefore the proposals contained in this Bill have been thoroughly researched by the Government over quite a considerable time. 
Following this study possible approaches to the problem were discussed with representatives of industry organisations and the Trade Development Council. As a result of this consideration the Government was convinced that if Australian interests were to be able to compete on an equal footing with overseas competitors an overseas projects corporation would need to be established to facilitate direct co-operation between industry and government in this field. Therefore the Government undertook to establish such a corporation during 1978 as part of its policy, and of course this undertaking was outlined very considerably in November 1977 during the last Federal election campaign. 
A great amount of investment in large developmental projects in developing countries has taken place during the past 10 years. This has been most notable in the Middle East where oil prices have been at a very high level. The investment has enabled these oil producing countries to embark on huge development programs of a continuing nature. In addition, financial institutions such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank are providing large amounts of development funds to developing countries to enable them to improve their food production capacity and so on. There is great competition among overseas countries to gain a share of the large contracts for development projects. Contracts are being let for projects such as port facilities, railways, dams and hospitals. Countries such as the United States of America, the United 
Kingdom, France, Canada, Korea and Japan are competing for these contracts. Organisations from these countries are being helped by their own governments to gain the contracts. Australian companies must have the backing of this Government if they are to be able to compete successfully. 
The Corporation will be concerned only with development projects overseas and it will be prohibited from engaging in general trading. It will provide information on opportunities for Australian involvement in overseas development projects. It will assist Australian private organisations to negotiate or carry out overseas development projects by providing technical advice or, on request, joining into a consortium with private organisations provided it is requested to do so. It can agree to carry out the whole or part of an overseas development project with a view to arranging for the work to be done by Australian private organisations. 
There are huge contracting firms in this country that are capable and able to undertake projects of the type envisaged in the Bill. They have the engineering expertise as well as the necessary expertise in other fields. The Corporation will act only as a private contractor if no capable Australian private organisation is willing to do so. Parts III and IV of the Bill relate to the establishment of an Australian overseas projects corporation board, the appointment of a managing director and the engagement of the staff of the corporation. The board will consist of a full-time managing director and seven parttime directors, four of whom will be drawn from the private sector and one of whom will have experience in rural industry. No doubt this part of the Bill has been very well researched by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and the Government. I cannot see why the Opposition has raised such a fuss about the personnel of the board who will look after the Corporation. 
Part V of the Bill sets down the financial and accounting policies and responsibilities of the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation. It is to operate commercially and charge a fee for its services. An initial working capital of $2m is to be provided and the Corporation will be empowered to enter into contingent liabilities up to an initial limit of $50m. The legislation will assist Australian companies to gain access to overseas markets which are at present available to progressive firms and traders. From an economic point of view, first Australia must develop its overseas trade. This Bill certainly will give an opportunity to progressive firms and interested organisations to take part in the great development that is occurring in neighbouring countries and other countries generally. We have in Australia the contracting companies and the engineering companies with the expertise and the know-how to undertake these contracts. I fully support the Bill. I think that it will be of great assistance to our overseas trade and will develop new markets of great advantage to Australia. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  commenced his speech by saying that this 
Government was bankrupt. He has a very convenient memory, because although this Government had a deficit of $2.8 billion the last Australian Labor Party Government in 1975 had a deficit of over $4 billion. Indeed, in endeavouring to borrow funds to underwrite its financial disaster, instead of going to the normal banking channels it went to an intermediary- an Arab sitting in a dingy office in London. 
This Budget provides for an expenditure estimated at $28, 870m, an increase of only 7.7 per cent in 1978-79 as compared with an increase of 11.1 per cent in 1977-78. This is the lowest rate of increase of expenditure for the past 10 years and it is indeed an achievement. Never let us forget the extravaganza of the three years of the Labor Government when budgets were run from $12 billion in 1973-74 to $16 billion in 1974-75 and to $22 billion in 1975-76. It was the last Labor Budget that was responsible for the economic situation that followed and which this Government is endeavouring to correct and is correcting. 
This Government has been set the difficult task of arresting the galloping inflation and restoring the economic position to safe levels in order to give confidence to the people of Australia. Since the 1 977-78 Budget the public of Australia has given this Government an overwhelming mandate to pursue its economic policies and objectives. The main objective has been to reduce inflation and in this field the Government has achieved results, bringing inflation down to 7.9 per cent. It is hoped that with the policies enunciated by the Government the rate of inflation will be down to a single digit- 5 per cent- by 30 June 1979. Honourable members should remember that in Labor's last year of office, inflation was 18 per cent and in 1977 the present Government had lowered it to 10.2 per cent. It is now running at the rate of 7.9 per cent. This is indeed a splended achievement and it is well received by responsible Australians. 
Indeed, the Budget has been well received right throughout the nation. There has been an odd grumble or two, but in the main it has been well received. Australians realise that we have to have a Budget of this nature to restore the economy. Stock exchanges throughout Australia- in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide; wherever there is a stock exchange- have had a ring of confidence and the share market has risen. The same applies to stock exchanges overseas. Indeed, the Budget was very well received overseas. It was very well received in London, New York and other Western nations. Comments are favourable. Overseas newspapers have praised the courage of the Government in making real efforts to overcome inflation and to lower interest rates, with the ultimate result being an improvement in the unemployment situation. 
Let us not forget also who was responsible for the galloping unemployment that we had in this country. It was none other than the Labor Government. All of a sudden it reduced tariffs right across the board by 25 per cent and allowed into this country cheap goods which were produced by labour forces earning possibly $A12 a month. That, to me, does not seem to be a sensible policy at all. It created chaos in this nation. We are faced with the problem of arresting it and curing it. There is no doubt that the reduction in inflation and interest rates will do more to help home buyers, businessmen, farmers, exporters, pensioners and the nation's employment situation than will any other single act of government. We know now that interest rates are starting to come down. I have no doubt that with this policy interest rates will be reduced during the next 12 months. Critics of the Budget are completely overlooking this point. In most cases they are thinking of how it will affect themselves and forgetting the long term benefits that will accrue to the whole nation. These critics have completely missed the vital points. The reduction in inflation and interest rates, in itself, will provide the greatest possible stimulus to the economy. 
The Government has had to face up to the situation and take hard decisions. It is easy to spend money, to throw it around and to say that that will solve all problems. We know that only too well. We have learnt, to our sorrow, just what such a policy by Labor did to our economy and to the confidence of the people in this nation. This Budget rejects this type of disastrous policy. Inflation has to be controlled to improve the competitiveness of Australian goods on the world market. This is extremely important. We have to market our products overseas to bring in the valuable export funds which we urgently need. 
High unemployment persists. Real wages are too high. No doubt this remains a major cause of the unacceptable levels of unemployment. The real cost of labour continues to be out of range with productivity. Every effort must be made to step up productivity. High wages are all right, provided productivity increases. The unemployment of young people and school leavers has been a real problem. High commencing wages in this area no doubt have been the reason, in many instances, for the high level of unemployment in the youth sector. Youths starting today on wages of $60 to $80 a week, although they are really of no use to an employer for two or three years, acts as a deterrent to business people employing them. 
The Government has taken quite a few steps to assist in the unemployment field. I refer to the National Employment and Training scheme, the Special Youth Employment Training Program, the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Fulltime Training, the Community Youth Support Scheme, the Relocation Assistance Scheme, the Education Program for Unemployed Youth and training for industry and commerce. These are positive steps taken by this Government to assist in the provision of training for secure jobs. In the electorate of Paterson, I am pleased to say, unemployment is being reduced. It is being reduced slowly; nevertheless, it is coming down month by month. I praise the Commonwealth Employment Service officers in the area who are doing a very fine job in implementing all the programs I have just enunciated. This is having a beneficial effect on the lowering of unemployment. 
I refer now to social security. With, I think, 1,200,000 pensioners in this country, the Government is faced with a huge Budget allocation to provide equitable pensions for the aged, widows, invalids, repatriation beneficiaries, deserted wives, et cetera. The Government has allocated over $8 billion in this field. When we consider that out total Budget is $28 billion we see that this is a quite big percentage of Budget expenditure. Last year the allocation was $7.25 billion. Who says that this Government has no compassion? The Government certainly has compassion. It has always increased assistance in the pension field. Those entitled to pension benefits subject to indexation will receive increased benefits of 3.4 per centthe increase in the consumer price index in the first half of 1978- from the first pay day in November. There will be a rise in the single rate of $1.75 to $53.20 a week. The combined married rate will be increased by $2.90 to $88.70 a week. 
I mention another very important budgetary item in the health sector- Medibank. It was brought in by the Labor Government on 1 July 1975. It has been a real rip-off of taxpayers' funds. There is no such thing as free medicine. Somebody has to pay for it, and pay they have for Medibank Standard. It has cost the taxpayers of this country $1,451,500,000. It is a rip-off of the taxpayers of this country. This amount is made up as follows: Hospital, $ 1,046m; medical profession, $355m; administration $46m; and programming $4.5m. Is it any wonder that 
Medibank Standard has to be scrapped? Medibank Private will be maintained. In general terms there will be a return to a voluntary insurance scheme as from 1 November 1978. Sufficient time will be allowed for Australians to investigate the new proposals and to see which scheme suits their pocket and family responsibilities. 
One of the great industries in this country is the automobile industry. It certainly has been in very dire straits over the past two years. So, the Government rightly has decreased by 12  Vi  per cent the sales tax on motor vehicles. This news is extremely welcome. This industry is one of Australia's largest. It gives employment to hundreds of thousands directly engaged in the manufacture and assembly of vehicles and to hundreds of thousands employed in supplying component parts such as batteries, tyres and a host of other items. The reduction already has given an impetus to this industry. Employment in the industry is on the increase. Unfortunately we had a strike recently in the General MotorsHolden's Ltd plants. I understand that this has been overcome. Confidence has been restored to this very important industry. If the industry failed serious economic problems would result right across this country. 
This Government, in the Budget, has maintained assistance to rural industries. Provisions are made for rural reconstruction and adjustment, wool research and promotion, control and eradication of cattle disease and underwriting of dairy products. A sum of $40m has been included for continuation of the superphosphate bounty. The nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy is to be extended for one year from 1 January 1979 but at a reduced rate of $40 a tonne. The cost of the subsidy is estimated at $40m in 1978-79. 1 understand a primary producers' bank will come into operation next month. The Government will be assisting this bank by investing with it funds from the equalisation deposit trust account which stands at the present time at $80m. This Government has backed the wool industry. Wool is still Australia's greatest export earner and this Government has always had faith in it. It has a price which we support and which has been of great benefit to the wool producers of this country. We are providing assistance to cattle producers. Over $ 100m has been made available to cattle producers under the cattle compensation scheme and this has saved many producers who were on the breadline. Fortunately the price of cattle has improved and this industry should be economically sound in the future. 
Isolated children's grants have been fully maintained. Unfortunately- I suppose it has been necessary and the Government has decided on it- there has been an increase in the cost of fuel. The cost of growing and transporting produce could jump sharply as a result of the increased fuel costs set out in the Budget. Grain growers and major users of fuel among country dwellers will be hit hardest. It is estimated that the fuel price rise will add $ 1 .80 to $2 per hectare to the cost of dry land grain farming, representing a rise of about 5 per cent in the total growing cost. In addition, the cost of trucking wheat to silos, stock to saleyards, fruit and vegetables to markets and a host of essential input items to farms will also rise. People in the country are very satisfied with the Budget but they are concerned about the increased cost that this fuel rise will mean to them. Let us hope that they have some good seasons and that the prices of primary products will help them to meet the increased fuel costs. 
I want to say something about the State Government of New South Wales. It is always pressing this Government for more financial assistance. It has been reliably stated that at the present time the State Government of New South Wales has $650m in cash balances and that these have been accumulated over the last two years. These figures have not been plucked out of the air; they come from the State Treasury. This money is in the bank earning interest. It should be used on road construction and for public works, thereby helping to solve some of the unemployment problems that exist in the State of New South Wales and to improve the State roads which in many country areas are in a shocking condition because of the lack of assistance from the State Government. There it is with $650m. It has a duty to get out and spend the money on some of these roads. It is going to use the money for electioneering purposes; it will make handouts at election time. Of that I have no doubt at all. 
I turn now to postal charges. I was very sorry indeed to learn of the recent increase in the basic postal charge from 18c to 20c. I feel that the Australian Postal Commission is letting us down. It is not using sound business principles. A business man increases his turnover in order to increase his profits. But the Postal Commission has just taken the least line of resistance. It has increased the cost of postage. This has meant a bonanza for courier services and for similar organisations that are able to take mail throughout the country. Solicitors, accountants and such people are using courier services now and this revenue is being lost to the Postal Commission. Postmasters whom I meet and their staff are very concerned about the fall-off in revenue from postage. Indeed, many of them are extremely worried about their employment situation because their turnover has been reduced to such a large extent. 
This Government is continuing its assistance to local government. It made a promise last November that over its three-year life, the 1 .52 per cent share of personal income tax would be increased to 2 per cent. This year it has granted an 8.5 per cent increase to local government in Australia. This will be of great benefit to shire and municipal councils in their budgets. Of course, when it was announced that there would be an increase to 2 per cent most of the local governments wanted it straight away. However, local government has to take some responsibility in arresting the inflation rate and bringing sound economy to this country. So the Government in its wisdom has granted an 8.5 per cent increase to local government which will be of great benefit. It has been a pleasure to take part in this debate and to support the Budget which has been acclaimed by most responsible people in this nation. 
-Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of the claims that Australia has missed opportunities for meat sales in the Middle East and of suggestions that greater priorities should be given to trade with the Middle East and the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations instead of Europe? Will the Government respond to these suggestions? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Because the High Court of Australia made a decision in favour of the Australian Wheat Board within weeks of the commencement of the 1978 harvest, can the Minister inform the House whether the Wheat Board intends applying the new powers given to it by the decision in an inflexible manner or whether there is any indication that the Board will adopt a softer line during the current harvest for people who have made firm commitments under the old arrangements? 
I direct my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources. In view of the increasing importance of China as a market for Australian products, can the Minister indicate what steps the Government is taking to encourage the development of further trade with this country? 
-My question which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry refers to the Primary Industry Bank of Australia Ltd. Is the Minister aware that trading bank managers in the country districts of New South Wales have not been advised of how this Bank is to function? Is this causing considerable concern to applicants for financial assistance? Will the Minister take up this matter with the management of the Primary Industry Bank to ensure that the necessary advice and instruction are given to these banks which are shareholders in the Primary Industry Bank? 
-I support the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill 1978, the Live-stock Export Charge Amendment Bill 1978 and the Live-stock Diseases Bill 1978, which are being debated cognately. I congratulate the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  for the contribution that he has made to the debate. It is quite evident that he has a first-class knowledge of the industry, the problems associated with it and the costs involved. He has given us some very interesting information tonight. 
The first of these measures I wish to deal with is the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill 1 978. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Act 1964 to increase the maximum rates leviable on cattle, buffaloes, sheep, lambs and goats slaughtered for human consumption. The introduction of this Bill was requested by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. The Bill sets out clearly the increased charges which are to apply. Funds so collected will go to meat research, meat processing research and the administration of the Aus.tralian Meat and Livestock Corporation. Much of the funds collected from the slaughter levies and export charges is expended on promoting an increase in the demand for Australian meat and livestock. We have to increase the volume of our exports of meat. We have to find new markets. If we were to lose the American market we would be placed in a very serious position indeed because America takes 300,000 tonnes of our beef and that really sets the price of beef on the Australian market. 
We have to look at the situation in the countries that are members of the Association of South East Asian Nations and make every effort to increase our exports of meat to those countries. When we lost the European Economic Community market we lost an export market which took 80,000 tonnes of our beef year in and year out. That was a blow to our great cattle industry. Of course, we know of the problems with which primary producers were faced because they had increased the cattle population from 6 million head in 1972 to 32 million head by 1975. This presented a great problem. We were overstocked and, naturally, the prices obtained by primary producers came down. Many of them went to the wall and others faced very serious difficulties indeed. We must increase the volume of our exports to the Middle East. Selling campaigns are necessary if we are to achieve results. We need promotion in this area. If we were to get under way a good promotional campaign we could stimulate our sales. 
The Live-stock Slaughter Levy Act provides for the proposed changes to operative rates of levy to be implemented by regulation. Recommendations for amendments to the operative levy rates are made to the Minister by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation after consultation with the Producer Consultative Group, the Exporter and Abattoir Consultative Group and, where appropriate, the Australian Meat Research Committee. The honourable member for Parramatta set out very clearly in his speech the increased levy rates which are to apply, so there is no need for me to cover that ground again. 
The second Bill which we are debating cognately is the Live-Stock Export Charge Amendment Bill 1978. This is a BUI to amend the Livestock Export Charge Act 1977 to increase the maximum rates which may be charged on live exports of cattle, buffaloes, sheep, lambs and goats. The moneys collected from these charges are used for meat research, for financing the Aus.tralian Meat and Livestock Coporation and, in connection with buffaloes and cattle, for financing the national cattle disease eradication scheme. It is extremely important that we make every effort to carry out every possible investigation into ways and means of eradicating disease in our cattle industry. The increases in the maximum rates of charge provided for in the Bill parallel those in the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill 1978. Clauses 2 to 7 of the Bill refer to these matters. They set out the amended charges which are to apply. 
The purpose of the third Bill which we are debating cognately- the Livestock Diseases Bill 1978- is to make provision for and in relation to the control and eradication of exotic diseases affecting livestock. The Foot and Mouth Disease Act 1961 and the Foot and Mouth Disease Act 1965 are being repealed by this Bill. It is very important that Australia use every means at its command to ensure that foot and mouth disease never enters this country. Some ten or eleven years ago that disease entered Great Britain and a large number of the livestock there had to be killed. We do not want it to enter this country because if it does we will find that we, acting in a responsible manner, will have to slaughter the stock which is affected by it. 
I am very pleased indeed to see that this Government is taking care in this field to ensure that foot and mouth disease does not reach our shores. For many years we have had a well coordinated system of committees under the Australian Agricultural Council and the Standing Committee on Agriculture. Through these forums full consideration is continually given to finding ways and means of eradicating serious exotic diseases should they ever gain entry to Australia. It is most important that we keep such diseases out of Australia. There is complete agreement between the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Premiers of all States about the need for joint action to be taken. 
The diseases which will be covered by this Bill are quite numerous but I think it is well to enumerate them. They are foot and mouth disease, rinderpest, swine fever, African swine fever, rabies, Newcastle disease, fowl plague, bluetongue, and swine vesicular disease. The Bill covers the rules and regulations which would apply should an outbreak occur. It covers also compensation payable to the owners of stock destroyed. Clauses 12 to 17 of the Bill deal with the details of compensaton in a comprehensive manner. Clause 18 provides for a $200 penalty for making false or misleading statements. 
It has been my pleasure to be a co-founder of possibly the most successful abattoir in the State of New South Wales. I refer to the Gunnedah Municipal Abattoir, which the honourable member for Parramatta mentioned. 
-Yes, it is a good abattoir. The honourable member for Parramatta mentioned the dual inspection of meat. This costs a great deal of money to the meat industry, to the housewife and to everybody connected with the industry. Meat for consumption within New South Wales is inspected by State meat inspectors. If it is to be exported, it is inspected by the Department of Primary Industry's meat inspectors. At our meatworks- the same situation would apply at any meatworks- there are 30, 40 or even 50 meat inspectors. They all go through the same technical college course and they all gain the same qualifications. Yet we find that we have these double inspections. Surely the Commonwealth and the States can get together and agree to having one meat inspection and thereby reduce costs considerably. The honourable member for Parramatta mentioned the director of the Cattlemen's Union of Australia. It is true that only last week in the city of Tamworth he said that there was a Mafia-type setup operating in regard to the marketing of cattle in the north. I know most of the buyers and most of the firms operating in the north and most of the primary producers who supply the markets, and they have all been very happy with the operation. If they had not been happy surely we would have heard considerable rumbles, particularly from the keen primary producers and some of the smaller butchers who operate in that market. 
An honourable member interjects that members of the Mafia do not leave their names and addresses. I do not think that these people are connected with the Mafia. I think that this is just a term that  Mr Cassell  has conveniently used. I, along with other members, would like him to nominate the individuals involved in this Mafia-type operation. He has promised to do so by Friday of this week, that is, in a few days rime. Last year the housewives of Australia purchased 60,000 tonnes of Australian beef. This indicates that Australian beef is not overpriced. It is a commodity which will compare quite favourably with any other type of protein. Let us hope that through butchers like the honourable member for Parramatta and others this valuable trade to the industry will continue. It is a trade which far exceeds exports, say, to Japan and to other countries to which we export meat. 
It is a great pleasure to support the measures because they provide great protection to the meat industry, the exports of which are worth well over $1 billion to this country. As I have said, 60,000 tonnes were sold on the local market so it is necessary that we carrry out research to eradicate disease and do everything we possibly can to help this great industry which at the present time is second only to the wool and coal industries. It is a pleasure to support the three Bills and I have no doubt that they will be passed without any problems. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (8.33)-The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  told us about the first-class abattoir in Gunnedah. He said also that he had had something to do with the setting up of that abattoir. I want to draw his attention to the abattoir at Condobolin and also to inform him that I had something to do with the setting up of that abattoir. The Opposition does not intend to hold up the passage of these Bills but I want to point out to the House that I feel some responsibility to express the concern of meat producers and other primary producers in my electorate at some of the problems connected with the marketing of beef and other meat products and also at the steep levy increase contained in the amendments to the three Bills we are debating in this House tonight. I refer to the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment BUI, the Live-stock Export Charge Amendment Bill and the Livestock Diseases BUI. It has been noted by beef producers and other primary producers that the maximum rates levyable per head under the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment BUI will be doubled for the meat research component, quadrupled for the meat processing research component and doubled for the component dealing with the administration of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. 
Primary producers in my electorate say that they are sick and tired of the present Government's claim that it is making their farms more profitable by reducing inflation while at the same time it is adding to farming costs in all directions. It seems to me that every service provided by the Government, whether it is of a direct or indirect nature, is costing the farmer double or quadruple the amount it cost previously. At the same time he has to accept the extra charges, such as the huge cost of the fuel price hike imposed in the Government's attempt to reduce the deficit. I was surprised to hear the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  say in his second reading speech that the increases in the meat processing rates have been recommended by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation after consultation with and with the support of the Producer Consultative Group, the Exporter and Abattoir Consultative Group and the Australian Meat Research Committee. One wonders to whom the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation and the other consultative groups spoke before agreeing to the increases. Primary producers in my electorate have informed me repeatedly that at long last there is some chance of their becoming viable provided no extra costs or charges are imposed on them. 
They point out that if extra costs and charges are imposed they wil never get out of the economic bog they are in. Of course, they have the right vigorously to oppose additional costs and charges because even though the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has promised good times ahead, many of them have not yet been able to get their hands on an extra dollar. It goes straight to their creditors. It appears from discussions I have had with these people that the so-called national Rural Bank will do very little to alter this situation. We must remember that it was the last straw that broke the camel's back. 
Just as the primary producers have been bracing themselves to bear the extra charges brought about by the fuel price hike, they should at least be able to see definite evidence that they will be able to climb out of this credit bog before further financial burdens are added to farm costs. This BUI provides for an increase in the maximum rate levyable for cattle, sheep, lamb and goats slaughtered for human consumption. The Minister has informed us that the consultative groups are in favour of these increases but if one reads what the Cattlemen's Union has to say about the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation, one will find it hard to understand how it would agree to doubling its contribution to that organisation. I know that many uncomplimentary remarks have been made about the Cattlemen's Union of Australia tonight. I do not want to argue the point about that, but the fact is that the Union represents a large proportion of Australian beef producers and its membership is increasing rapidly. Therefore it is entitled to have some airing of its views in this House and some answers to the statements it has made. 
It is a well known fact that the Cattlemen's Union has sought a federal inquiry into the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation's administration of the beef export entitlement scheme. If we are to accept the Minister's statement in his second reading speech that all the producers are in favour of these extra levies, surely some Government members or the Minister himself should give answers to the claims and statements made by the Executive of the Cattlemen's Union, particularly the Press releases by  Mr Barry  Cassell and the letter from Graham McCamley, the national  president,  to the Prime Minister on 10 May. A letter circulated to members and senators on 1 1 May 1978 states: 
Please find attached correspondence to the Prime Minister on an iniquitous system that has been imposed on Australia 's cattle and beef industries. This system is one major contributor to the failure in a recovery of Australia's four-year-old cattle depression. 
The Cattlemen's Union seeks a full, open public inquiry into how the $2S0m false market has been allowed to continue. We seek an investigation into what beef export companies are benefiting at the expense of cattlemen and what individuals have stood to gain. 
Your assistance and advice would be deeply appreciated by every Australian cattle producer. 
I do not say that this is right or wrong, but surely when someone makes an accusation that $250m has been lost and seeks an open investigation the Parliament should take some notice. Honourable members cannot push that fact aside. The letter to the Prime Minister claims that the producers have been manipulated out of $ 125m by the beef industry export entitlement scheme. The Cattlemen's Union asks for Federal intervention to effect the incorporation of the following basic principles in any new export entitlement schemes: 
. Entitlements to have a limited cash value. 
AMLC to administer all entitlement sales at nominal value. 
Entitlement transfers to be restricted to control the present manipulation by major exporters. 
Every exporter to earn US entitlement by diversification to other markets. 
Japan removed from the entitlement scheme, and replaced by a price scheme for beef to Japan. 
Surely, as these claims are made openly they deserve some answer. I am not saying that they are right. When a body the size of the Cattlemen's Union has the courage to come out in the open and make these statements they should not be wiped off by someone saying he does not like Barry Cassell. 
This is an important issue with primary producers. To indicate that I am referring to the same matters as the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry and not introducing something that has nothing to do with the Bills I would like to read what the Minister had to say in that speech: 
Moneys raised through the components designated for administration of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation are used to finance all aspects of the operation of the Corporation. The Corporation is essentially responsible for the control and regulation of external marketing of Australian meat, meat products, edible offal and livestock. The Corporation also encourages and provides assistance for promotion of meat and meat products both in Australia and overseas. The Government does not supplement funds raised from producers for this purpose. 
All the money provided by the primary producers goes to financing the Corporation, whose responsibility it is to look after these entitlement schemes. These Bills deal with increases in the amounts of levies. Surely someone has to answer the Cattlemen's Union. People are entitled to say that they do not like Barry Cassell but they also have to give an answer to the claims he is making. 
I am in no way trying to prove that the claims made by the Cattlemen's Union are 100 per cent correct, but the House should at least debate the claims made by the Cattlemen's Union. It seems to me that statements on the subject are made frequently and publicly. Many primary producers are of the opinion that the statements contain a large degree of truth. In the  Cattleman  of 21 September we read such statements as the following: 
Of the $2,250m spent this year on beef stabilisation, only $700m went to producers. The rest was paid to an inefficient' secondary and marketing sector. In a recent tour of Hunter Valley towns  Mr Cassell  and  Mr Armstrong  have been promoting membership of the Australian Cattlemen's Union. 
In the same speech  Mr Cassell  attacked the AMLC, asserting that it 'treats its producers with contempt*. The only means of changing the Corporation was through political pressure on the Federal Government. That pressure could be applied by the CUA 
That may be why there is so much opposition to the Cattlemen's Union. It is putting pressure on the Government. In my opinion the Government is under an obligation to answer the charges made by the Cattlemen's Union. It is a fact that there is a general feeling throughout the meat industry that something is going on with the cattle entitlements. I believe it is up to the Government and the Minister to give some answers. I believe that grounds exist for a full Federal Government inquiry into the Australian meat entitlement scheme. I ask the Government to consider these things and to give an answer to the Cattlemen's Union. We should let these people get out of the financial bog they are in before we load them down with any extra charges. 
-The purpose of this Bill, as previous speakers have indicated, is to amend the Trade Practices Act of 1974 and, in particular, section 45D. It will broaden the scope of secondary boycotts, caught by that section, especially those affecting overseas and interstate trade and commerce. In his second reading speech on 26 October the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  made it quite clear that the amending Bill was introduced to counter conduct which disrupts Australia's interstate and overseas trade. It is important to Australia as a trading nation that its sea and air links remain open so that we can export and import goods at times most favourable to our seasons, our economy and our balance of trade. If overseas and interstate trade is prevented from functioning, there are added costs to business and to the community. 
The immediate reason for the introduction of the legislation is, no doubt, as a result of the ban imposed during April this year by the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union on the export of live sheep to the Middle East. It is important that we maintain and increase our export of livestock to the Middle East- a trade which has been built up over the years. Owing to the action of members of the AMIEU, this was prevented not only in the port of Adelaide but also, in northern New South Wales, in the port of Newcastle. We have seen ships delayed from two to three weeks. This has considerably increased the cost to those handling the stock and has given Australia a poor reputation in the Middle East which seeks the delivery of livestock. Furthermore, the industry has gone through a very serious downfall in prices. We find this action being taken at a time when the primary producer can get a fair price for the livestock being exported overseas. This dispute could have brought the waterfront- I am talking now about the dispute at Port Adelaidethroughout Australia to a standstill and could have resulted in flow-ons in the meat industry. 
At present, section 45D prohibits collusive boycotting conduct engaged in for the purpose and having the effect of, firstly, substantially damaging the business of corporations, or, secondly, substantially lessening competition in any Australian market. Experience with the recent livestock dispute indicates certain limitations of that section in such situations. Some of these limitations would be overcome if section 4SD were amended to prohibit collusive boycotting conduct engaged in for the purpose and having the effect of substantially restricting the ability of a corporation to engage in interstate and international trade or commerce. I might add that this livestock trade is worth $300m to Australia and it is bringing in a very important overseas balance of trade. Clause 4 of the Bill provides for the insertion of new proposed sub-section ( lA) in section 45D. It states:   a person shall not, in concert with another person, engage in conduct for the purpose, and having or likely to have the effect, of preventing or substantially hindering a third person . . . 
I understand that there is to be an amendment to this proposal by adding the words 'from engaging in interstate or overseas trade or commerce'. Proposed new sub-section (IB) of section 45d provides a defence where the conduct did not constitute a contravention of other restrictive trade practices provisions or where the dominant purpose for which the defendant engaged in the conduct was to preserve or further a business carried on by him. Clause S amends section 76 and ensures that a person is liable for only one pecuniary penalty even if a contravention of two or more provisions of Part IV occurs. Clause 6 redrafts sub-section (7) of section 88 of the principal Act relating to the granting of an authorisation by the Trade Practices Commission for conduct that may come within section 45d. 
This Bill will give protection to those engaged in trade overseas which is necessary to build our export trade. We must at all costs protect our export trade in this country. I do not need to tell this House that our great primary industries are still the most valuable export earners for Australia. To have any interference by the unions in the export of these products causes this nation and the people who live in it great concern. The AMIEU, of course, says that by the export of livestock overseas it will not have the necessary number required for slaughter in this country. That is a lot of rubbish because until about 12 months ago we had 32 million head of cattle in Australia. No one can convince me that there will be a shortage of stock for slaughtering purposes. The position of sheep is exactly the same. It is no argument to be put up that there will not be sufficient stock to slaughter. I hope that the members of the AMIEU will realise this and that in future they will not hold up the export of our livestock or any of our meat and processing in that industry. I support the Bill. 
I join with the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr 
Baume) in congratulating the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  on his successful negotiations in arrangements with the Northern Land Council. I think this is a great achievement and will do much for the eventual marketing of uranium. Further, I would join with the member for Macarthur in condemning the members of the Opposition for their stirring of the Aborigines in the Northern Territory against the mining of uranium. The member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  nas criticised the fact that we are dealing with three individual items tonight in the cognate debate. However, I would remind the House that to my memory, the honourable member for Reid has spoken on uranium here in this House in respect of various facets of legislation at least eight or nine times. He is always opposed to the mining, milling and marketing of uranium. We are in the nuclear age, whether we like it or not. If this country does not take advantage of its huge deposits of uranium it will be of great detriment to the nation. The mining of uranium will be a tremendous benefit to the economy of Australia in the long run and I hope in the near future. 
I will direct most of my remarks to the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill (No. 2) which is included in the cognate debate. The main purpose of the Bill is to enable the Act to be amended so that under section 41 a mining authority can be issued for rnining at Ranger which affords the persons on whom the authority has been conferred security of tenure- which is most important- similar to that enjoyed by the holders of a mining lease in force in the Northern Territory and most of the States, while at the same time assuring that it is subject to appropriate controls. The Ranger project has been on the drawing boards for a long time and at last provisions are being enacted for the mining of uranium ore to commence a development so important to the future economy of Australia. As mentioned by the Minister in his second reading speech, the Government announced its policy on 25 August 1977 to develop uranium ore deposits in the Ranger project area on the basis of the memorandum of understanding of October 1975, which provided for mining to be undertaken under the Atomic Energy Act by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, Peko Mines Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd as joint venturers. 
In June of this year the Atomic Energy Act was amended to authorise the participation of the Commission in the Ranger project for the purpose of ensuring the supply of uranium. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said on 25 August 1977 that it should not be thought that the Commonwealth's participation in the memorandum of understanding would give Ranger an advantage over other mining companies. The Government believes that the holders of an authority under the Atomic Energy Act should not be disadvantaged in respect of such an important matter as security of tenure in comparison with prospective competitors. It is good to see at last an agreement under section 44 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act between the Commonwealth of Australia and the Northern Land Council, which is being debated here tonight along with other measures. It is important that Australia should get on with the very important job of mining, milling and marketing of uranium ore. Twenty-five per cent of the world's known uranium deposits are situated in this country, and I venture to say that there are many more uranium fields in Australia that have yet to be discovered. There have been too many holdups and too many red herrings drawn across the trail. The environmentalists, the Friends of the Earth, the Aborigines and the Austraiian Labor Party have conducted a vendetta against the mining of uranium in Australia. 
There is a shortage of energy throughout the world and a demand for uranium. We are a fortunate country in that we have considerable reserves of fossil fuel to cater for our own power requirements. However, we have a problem with liquid fuels. At present we produce 70 per cent of the liquid fuels used in this country and 30 per cent is imported from overseas- from the Persian Gulf, Iraq, Iran, Qatar and from other fields. Petroleum supplies are being diminished at the rate of 10 per cent a year. By 1984 we will be forced to import huge quantities of liquid petroleum from these areas and we will be faced with a very serious balance of trade position. We estimate that by 1984 our balance of trade could be so seriously affected by the necessity to import these liquid fuels that we could be up for $4'A billion a year. Having regard to this situation, it is important that we are prepared to get stuck into producing uranium yellowcake. 
There is no danger in rnining yellowcake. There has not been one loss of life in this operation in this country or indeed in any part of the world. Compare this with the coal mining industry where there are many accidents and many deaths. We can sell yellowcake to Canada, United States of America, Japan and Germany. We should be getting down to the job of doing this. Our Prime Minister has said that we can place safeguards on the export of our uranium to these countries so that it is used for power production purposes and not for nuclear warheads. 
The honourable member for Reid mentioned nuclear warheads in other countries. Every nation of any standing has access to nuclear power and nuclear warheads and missiles. Of course the Austraiian Labor Party says that the mining of uranium is dangerous. This is not so. However, when yellowcake is activated in a reactor the residue and the tailings become dangerous and need careful handling. The situation is like that which applied when electricity was introduced. When gas lamps were replaced with electric lamps people in Australia said: 'We will be electrocuted'. Of course you will be electrocuted if you stick your finger on a live wire! The position is the same with uranium; if the people are stupid enough not to handle it carefully, of course there can be problems. Safeguards have to be maintained and residue stored away in steel or glass containers. 
Everywhere in the world where these tailings are stored, they are carefully monitored. To my knowledge there has not been one accident or leakage from these tailings in store. Indeed, today science is finding a way of creating a fertiliser and chemicals out of these tailings. I have no doubt that in the immediate future there will be no danger whatsoever. I have mentioned before that we are in the atomic age- whether we like it or not and if we do not mine, mill and market our uranium we will be left far behind. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  mentioned that the Japanese are experimenting scientifically to produce yellowcake from sea water. It is an expensive operation at present. I understand that it costs $80 or $90 to produce a kilogram. But with experimentation the cost could be reduced and the operation made economic. And here we are in Australia with what is at present a valuable commodity but we could be left high and dry. There is no reason - 
That is right. The Japanese will reduce the price. And here the Opposition is placing every obstacle in the way of us producing uranium. The Opposition is doing a disservice to Australia economically and in many other ways. The honourable member for Reid talked about the generation of power overseas. In Great Britain nuclear power provides 15 to 20 per cent of the power generated. I have been there. I have seen the operation. In the United States of America, 15 to 20 per cent of power in the various States is generated from nuclear power from uranium and there have been very few accidents. As a matter of fact, from my research I have not been able to find an instance of any accident in 
America from nuclear power generation. The United States Navy has operated vessels on nuclear power for 21 years without any damage or accident at all. This surely should assure people who are putting obstacles in the way that under proper, careful administration, this fuel is the best, cleanest and most economic in the world. 
MrHolding-Rubbish. 
It is not rubbish; it is fact. We in Australia should be doing all we can to mine. We have 25 per cent of the world's known uranium fields, and indeed we could have more. Uranium mining will employ additional labour in this country and would open up mines in areas where there is little agriculture or industry. It will improve our countryside in the far areas- in the Northern Territory, in Western Australia and wherever this valuable mineral ore is located. I give full support to the three Bills being debated cognately tonight. I rcommend that the Australian Government immediately and with all its power and resources gets stuck into marketing of this valuable commodity. 
-On behalf of my colleagues, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who represents the electorate of New England and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who represents the electorate of Gwydir, I strongly support the New South Wales (Chrysotile Corporation) Bill 1978. The right honourable member for New England has the towns of Manilla and Barraba in his electorate. Therefore, he is vitally interested in this legislation. The Minister for Health has Bingara in his electorate which provides a lot of employment for Woodsreef Mines Ltd. He, too, is vitally interested in it. It is pleasing to see that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and his colleagues support the legislation. It is interesting to hear that the honourable member met the Managing Director,  Mr Robinson,  the staff and employees on the mine site recently. 
The Bill provides for a loan of $ 1.4m by the Commonwealth Government. This is to be matched by the State Government which will forgo royalties also. The loan of $1.4m by the Commonwealth Government is for a period of 15 months at commercial rates of interest. It is secured by a mortgage on some of the equipment. The Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd which is heavily involved in the Woodsreef mine has also come to the party. This is a combined operation by the Federal Government, the State Government and the Commercial Bank of Australia Limited. Woodsreef mine is the only asbestos mine in Australia. As you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it has a small operation at Baryulgil on the far north coast which employs a significant number of men. The Woodsreef mine employs 435 men. At least 700 people are employed in providing ancillary services to the mine covering a wide area, including the City of Tamworth, Manilla, Bingara, Bundarra and possibly Armidale. At least 60 homes have been built in the town of Barraba. If the mine should close, this would have a disastrous effect on this fine country town. 
The mine has been operating for the past six years. It is equipped with the most modern machinery. The life of the mine is anticipated to be well over 10 years. If it should close the Government would have to pay millions of dollars in unemployment relief to those people put out of work. The State Government would lose pay-roll tax and the Commonwealth would lose valuable export income of about $20m. We import on average 50,000 tonnes of asbestos a year. At present the  Chairman  and Managing Director of the company and a top executive are overseas gaining orders for the mine for the 1978-79 financial year. The mine has secured an order from the Australian company James Hardie Asbestos Ltd for 20,000 tonnes. There is no doubt that the prospects for Woodsreef in the future seem extremely good. 
The mine has experienced financial problems because of the lowering in value of the Canadian dollar and the dumping of asbestos on the world market. There was an over-supply of asbestos when Rhodesia and Russia dumped their surplus on the world market. This seriously affected the Woodsreef financial operations. The prospects this year are much brighter. I understand that the executive overseas are achieving success in securing orders. When they come back in the next few weeks it will be interesting to see just how they have gone. The sales forecast for the mine this year totals $28.6m- $6.9m on the Australian market, including the 20,000 tonnes to James Hardie and $2 1.7m from overseas sales. The Government has everything to gain and nothing to lose by keeping this mine open. As I said, it is the only asbestos mine in Australia. It produces good quality asbestos. Despite what health authorities have said about asbestos, we have been assured by the executives of the mine that there is very little danger of the employees being contaminated with the dust which is supposed to have caused considerable health problems in asbestos mines in other parts of the world. 
We support fully the legislation. As the honourable member for Blaxland said, there were delays whilst the New South Wales Government considered what assistance it would make available to keep the mine operating. The Government in Canberra had to carry out full investigations to see what contribution it would make. As I have mentioned, it is by way of a loan. It is good to see that the governments are prepared to keep this mine operating, for the reasons I have given. The Bill is fully supported by the Government. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. Is he aware of serious concern amongst farmers about their competitive position on overseas markets as a result of higher fuel prices resulting from the Government's crude oil pricing policy? Can the Minister give the House any information about the prices paid for fuel by farmers in Australia and in other countries? 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was quite right to draw to the attention of the people of Australia the great changes that had taken place overseas, in particular the recognition by the United States of America of China, and the problems in Iran and in parts of Africa. These events will most certainly affect Australia in the very near future. The Prime Minister and the Government are to be congratulated on asking China to withdraw from Vietnam and the Vietnamese to withdraw from 
Kampuchea. These events have great significance for countries throughout the world and in particular will have an effect on Australia. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  drew attention to the fact that in 1972 the Labor Government took over from us an economy that was sound. That statement was quite true. After three years Labor left office with a huge national deficit and with confidence in the economy run down. The confidence of the people had deteriorated absolutely and throughout Australia there was confusion generally. It is a great pity to hear Opposition members, in this debate as in all others, serving as prophets of gloom and using extraordinary figures to portray a situation which does not really exist in this country. 
The Government has reduced inflation to a reasonable level and the money supply has been brought under control. Interest rates have been reduced. As one travels the length and breadth of this country one finds confidence in the business sector. Indeed one can look forward in 1979 to improved business prospects generally. When confidence is completely restored the unemployment situation will improve. The unemployment situation cannot improve until business conditions improve and confidence is . restored throughout the nation. Business conditions have improved considerably. For those who are interested, I quote from the headlines of a number of financial reports in the Press: 
Turnaround puts CRA back on the keel. 
Lyell loses but mine deficit cut. 
We all recall the debates that took place here on the granting of assistance by the Government to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. Now that company is trading on a profitable basis. Another headline states: 
Bougainville set for $57m profit. 
Also, North Broken Hill Ltd has had a 77 per cent increase in profit. The headlines continue: 
Rothmans lifts market share; profit up 43 per cent. 
Lend Lease sees $ 17m profit. 
Dalgety Australia Ltd, a firm that has been showing trading losses and has been in great trouble, is now out of. the red and showing profits. I could go on to quote many more examples which indicate clearly that the economy of Australia is on the improve and that, in turn, undoubtedly unemployment will be reduced. Consumer demand is improving across the board. The activities of manufacturing firms are beginning to pick up. Their order books are full. At the end of last year stocks held by the manufacturing, trading and mechanical firms were down. Now they are ordering up; their requirements are being filled. All of these factors point to a considerable improvement. 
Our great primary industries are picking up. We have just seen a record wheat harvest of 17 million tonnes. Unfortunately, we are experiencing problems in storing it and getting it to the seaboard so that it may earn export income. I believe that increased wheat storage facilities must be provided at country sidings because, over the years, in answer to the great demand throughout the world, we will be growing more wheat. It is a pity that the union movement involved in the loading of ships at Newcastle and Sydney does not realise the serious situation that eventuates when we cannot ship our grain to overseas purchasers on time. 
There has been a complete reversal in the price obtained for Australian beef, which we are selling in huge quantities to the United States of America, Korea, Japan, the Middle East and other parts of the world. Our primary producers- not before time- are now trading on a profitable basis. Indeed, it is expected that this year farm incomes will increase by 80 per cent. The Government must take some credit for this. It has a very active export program under the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and the Ministers concerned with the marketing of our primary produce generally. We can look forward to having a prosperous farming community. What does this mean? It means that activity in the manufacturing industries will pick up very quickly. Farmers will want new headers, new combines, new ploughs and other new machinery. The effects will flow on to the manufacturing concerns in the cities of Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth and elsewhere. 
Similarly, our minerals industry is in a solid state. We are marketing record quantities of coal to Japan, Korea and even Great Britain. We are exporting iron ore and many other minerals, including copper and zinc. Activity has picked up in this field also and the effects of that must flow on to benefit the economy of Australia. 
Employment is improving. One of the great problems with the employment of young people in this country is their commencing wage of $70 to $80 a week. That represents a fairly high cost to the employer. He or his executive has to devote much of his time to the training of these young people. It is a great pity that there is such a high commencing salary. If there were not there would be a big improvement in the youth employment situation. 
The Government's policy on the oil industry is certainly bearing fruit. A moment ago I heard the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  ask: What has it done to the price of fuel in this country? The price of motor spirit in Australia is still the cheapest in the world, by a long way. It was my pleasure recently to visit China and Japan. In China petrol costs $1.50 a gallon; in Japan it costs more than $2 a gallon. In other parts of the world the price is higher still; so Australian motor spirit prices are comparable with any. As a matter of fact, I think they are the cheapest in the world. We know just what a disaster Labor's policy was for the oil industry. We must, however, give consideration to assisting primary producers with the cost of fuel for grain production. Our primary producers compete with America, Canada and other countries on the world market for wheat sales. Our farmers are competing against countries which have fuel costs considerably lower than ours. It was pleasing to hear the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  in answer to a question in the House this week saying that this matter is being reviewed. I hope that our farmers get some consideration in a way which will enable them to compete with farmers in other parts of the world. It will help the economy of this nation in the long run. 
There is tremendous renewed confidence in Australia. I think the Prime Minister in his speech mentioned the figures for investments in Australia by various companies. ICI Australia Ltd has announced plans for a $500m petrochemical plant for Victoria. This company would not be investing this money if it did not think the economy of this nation was sound. The company is to build a $400m ethylene plant at Botany Bay in Sydney. This is further evidence of confidence. General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd will spend $200m in Victoria on an engine plant. General Motors is a world wide organisation and it has faith in Australia. It would not have invested such an amount perhaps two years ago but it can now see that the economy is on the improve and can see that it is making a sound investment. Austraiian Newsprint Mills Ltd is to make a $160m investment in the Albury-Wodonga area. It will be of tremendous advantage to Australia. The company would not be making such a great investment in the area if it felt something was wrong with our economy. 
I mentioned a few moments ago that it was a pleasure to be a member of a delegation to China and Japan. We talked with the Chinese trade people. There is no doubt that in the years that lie ahead we will have considerable trade with 
China. Unfortunately there is an imbalance of trade with that area. China purchases $5 87m worth of our products; we purchase, in return, $11 lm. The imbalance could be made up with the importation of oil from China. Unfortunately the quality of oil which the Chinese have in great quantities is such that our refineries would have to spend billions of dollars to take out wax and other impurities. Nevertheless, it is something that could be looked at. China has 900 million people all of whom have to be fed. Great opportunities must exist for markets in many products. This is something that we must not forget. We must keep our eyes on that market. The Japanese and Americans are there in their hundreds seeking opportunities for trade. 
The delegation also visited Japan- a very affluent country with a good economy. The people are well clothed and well fed. We talked trade. I was particularly interested in beef.  Mr Ota,  who is the  President  of the Livestock Purchasing Corporation in that country and the man responsible for the purchase of Australian meat, indicated to me that the Japanese would be purchasing increased quantities of Australian beef. Honourable members may ask why. The Japanese housewives know that Australian beef is of good quality and is cheap. I noticed in a supermarket in Tokyo last Monday week that Japanese beef was being sold at $A24 per lb. The increased business with Japan will help the Australian economy. I congratulate the Prime Minister on his statement to the nation. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Resources whether he can say what action the Australian Government is taking to clarify the current uncertainty with regard to meat exports to Iran. 
-In the limited time available I desire to bring to the attention of the House a situation which is developing with effective and economic agricultural sprays popularly known as 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T. Pressure is being exerted by overseas chemical companies to eliminate 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T in favour of a more expensive chemical, one for which there is a greater profit percentage to those companies. Local firms providing spraying services are most concerned at this possible turn of events which, if it takes place, could increase farmers' costs considerably. The chemical 2,4-D is the great price leveller for other chemicals on the farm scene and is used for weed elimination by country councils throughout our land to control the weeds in the various lanes, highways and byways. 
There are many expensive chemicals available to replace 2,4-D. People are awaiting the right market reactions. The chemical companies would dearly love to have 2,4-D removed from the market place so that the much dearer materials could be used. Farmers' already burdensome costs would rise very dramatically overnight because 2,4-D is the most widely used chemical of any on the Australian market. Honourable members can imagine the cost surge of weed control for the nation's statutory weed control authorities. We should consider the increase in Australia's import bill for these new chemicals. We should consider the effect on our highly volatile grain export industries. These new chemicals are usually American and, should 2,4-D be banned, would be used throughout the world. This is a serious situation which should be looked into by the Department of Primary Industry and the various agricultural departments in the States of Australia. The banning of 2,4-D will increase our farmers ' costs considerably. If it is banned such action will be detrimental to agriculture generally. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Has the Primary Industry Bank of Australia announced that it is seeking funds from depositors? Will the Minister inform the House of the progress of the Primary Industry Bank since its inception last November? Is the Bank receiving adequate funds from income equalisation deposits and private sources to enable it to carry out its role? 
-The Opposition is using the unfortunate incident at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, in the United States of America to endeavour to attract a major debate on the uranium issue. Whether we like it or not, we are living in the nuclear age. If we do not mine, mill and market our uranium we will lose great prospects for this country. As previous speakers have said, there has not been the loss of one life in the uranium mining industry. We have 25 per cent of the world's known uranium supplies in this country and there is a lot more that has not yet been discovered. Let us compare this industry with the other mining industries such as coal mining, iron mining and copper mining. Thousands of lives have been lost in those industries over the years. We can sell our uranium to the United States of America, to Canada, Germany and South Africa. We can sell it to those countries on terms that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has mentioned, that it is used for power purposes. The United States of America has 70 nuclear power stations in operation, 70 under construction at present and another 69 have been contracted for. That shows what the United States thinks of uranium power and its safety. 
The tragedy that has occurred at Harrisburg has not caused the death of anybody. The situation is under control, according to the latest reports that have been received this afternoon. We have no doubt that with the scientific measures that are being taken there will be no loss of life. As mentioned previously, the Prime Minister has put a covenant on uranium being sold by Australia to other countries. The United States Navy has been nuclear powered for over 23 years. That has caused not one loss of life and not one problem for that Navy. Its warships and many of its passenger steamers are nuclear powered. There has been no loss of life, there have been no problems. It has been my pleasure and privilege to visit Calder Hall in London, the nuclear power station which was built in 1956. There has been no problem at all with that power station or indeed in the whole of Great Britain where over 15 per cent of the nation's power requirements are generated by nuclear means. 
The other day in Japan a parliamentary delegation from Australia visited the big atomic power station in Yokohama Bay. We were there when the spent fuel was taken out of the reactor and regenerated with new fuel. There was no problem whatsoever. The members of the delegation went into the power station. We were tested for radio-activity when we entered and when we came out. There was no change. Over 15 per cent of Japan's total power requirements is met from nuclear power stations. Other honourable members have given figures for the States of the United States of America. Those States vary. Some of them use up to 12 per cent nuclear power and others use as much as 38 per cent nuclear power. There have been over 3,000 hours of nuclear reactor operation throughout the world and there has been not one loss of life in that connection. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  brought up the subject of the loss of life by cancer. This is an old bogey. One cannot find any real evidence from research or from the various libraries of anybody having died of cancer as a result of being close to uranium or a nuclear reactor. Thirty four nations of the world already have nuclear power systems and six have nuclear weapon production facilities. No restrictions on those operations have been enforced or have even been contemplated. 
The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  espoused what is favourable to the communist cause.  His  apparent desire is to try to frustrate the power base of the Western world. There is a need for maximum safety measures but it must be related to alternative power sources. It is very instructive to consider the personalities comprising the opponents and proponents of nuclear power. Opponents on the world scene include some eminent scientists but these in general are in disciplines not associated with the technology they oppose. They also include organisations such as Friends of the Earth and the Conservation Society of New South Wales, and professors such as Professor Ralph Nader. Many young people under 30 years of age are committed to the cause. They often have university training, are intelligent, sincere, idealistic and articulate. Political activists trying to force personal views of human betterment on their fellow men also find an outlet within the anti-uranium movement. These people contrast notably with the proponents of nuclear power who can count on their side most of the pre-eminent nuclear scientists and engineers in the world, together with the majority of others in allied fields. The group also contains the large majority of political leaders of all kinds, as is indicated by the fact that 44 nations, including all the leading nations of the Wests many from behind the Iron Curtain and some within the Third World have opted for the new power source. 
There is no doubt that, as mentioned earlier, we are in the nuclear age and that Australia has a part to play in that age. There is a world energy shortage. We have plenty of uranium in this country and we should not be denying other nations of the world the opportunity to purchase uranium so that they can get the amenities they need. They can buy uranium from this country. Our policy is to sell uranium to these countries and no doubt we will do this. It has been disheartening indeed to hear the honourable member for Reid say that the Australian Labor Party will dismantle our policy if it is elected to power. That is a most un-Australian statement. We have one of the greatest assets in the world and we should be making use of this asset. 
It is anticipated that by 1984 there will be a petroleum shortage in this country. We will be required to purchase petroleum from overseas at great expense. We should therefore be getting ready to mine, mill and market our uranium so that we can cater for the adverse balance of trade that is going to occur in those years. Let us hope that we find more petroleum in this country. Since it came into power, this Government has indeed stepped up the prospects for finding more petroleum in Bass Strait and in other parts of Australia. What happened under Labor? The expertise and the know-how disappeared and Australia's petroleum finds fell right off. Mine, mill and market our uranium! 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the announced access for Australian beef to the United States of America arising out of the multilateral trade negotiations and, further, the possibility of increased access to the Japanese and European Economic Community markets, does the Minister feel, firstly, that there will be adequate beef to supply the expanding overseas markets and, secondly, that there will be adequate beef to meet the local market requirements in Australia? 
-Over the past few years much has been said about the liquid fuel and energy shortage that besets the world. It is very evident to all responsible citizens that early action should be taken by this Government and other governments in Australia, as well as by responsible organisations, to ensure that petroleum fuels are conserved. It is true that Australia produces 70 per cent of its petroleum needs and that we import 30 per cent of our needs from the Persian Gulf countries, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia. We face the years ahead with great concern for the liquid fuel situation, unless more oilfields are discovered in Australia. It is pleasing to note that since the present Government came to office oil exploration has been speeded up. However, we are a fortunate country in that we have great known quantities of fossil fuels. Indeed, millions of tonnes of high quality coal exist in the Bowen Basin in Queensland and in the area from Maitland, Singleton, and Muswellbrook, through the Hunter Valley, and over the range to Curlewis, Gunnedah, Boggabri and Moree. We should be making more use of this great asset and our attention must be focused in this direction. 
Firstly, let us look at the millions of tonnes of distillate that is being used by farmers throughout Australia in the irrigation of their crops and pastures. Certainly, many farmers have electricity to drive their pumps at present; but thousands of others are using diesel engines and consequently consuming valuable distillate fuel. A huge saving in liquid fuel could be made in this area. Programs and conversion works have to be carried out for those farmers transferring to electricity. Possibly they should be helped financially to do so. The savings in this field would be very great indeed. 
I turn now to our railways. Why could we not bring back steam trains for the haulage of goods from our great country areas, from our mines and from places of industry to the city and to the seaboard? Millions of tonnes of liquid fuel would be saved by the use of coal. Even restoring the use of coal to run goods trains only would represent a worthwhile saving. Indeed, when I visited China recently on an Australian parliamentary delegation, although China has plenty of petroleum fuels I witnessed the use of diesel trains in its cities, but in the country areas all of its goods were being hauled by splendid steam locomotives. I thought then that that was a lesson for us in Australia. Have all of our steam locomotives been sold for scrap? This is an interesting question. Huge goods trains carrying coal, steel, iron ore and other heavy commodities can be hauled by steam engines, with the saving of considerable fuel. 
Certainly a start has been made by changing fleets of motor vehicles over to the use of natural and petroleum gas. No doubt this program will be stepped up in the near future. Service stations and bulk storage depots will have to be created throughout the country to service these vehicles. Indeed, we should also be speeding up the introduction of electric driven vehicles. I understand that quite a few buses are now being operated by the use of batteries. This conservation program should be commenced as soon as possible in order to preserve the liquid fuels in this country. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Suggestions have been made that the guarantee given to the Australian Wheat Board by the Government, that the Board will not pay any higher interest rate on its borrowings as a result of the Government's decision that $455m will be raised on the commercial market, is in fact a subsidy to the Australian Wheat Board. I ask the Minister: Is this correct? 
-We are dealing with four Bills. The first Bill, the Wine Grapes Levy Bill 1979, will ensure that a levy is paid in respect of all grapes and grape juice used in the production of wine, brandy and spirit for fortifying wine. It replaces the Wine Grapes Act 1929. The proceeds of the levy form the income of the Australian Wine Board, which, under the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929, is responsible for controlling the export of wine, for undertaking the promotion of wine in Australia and overseas and for research into the quality of Australian wine and brandy. The levy is paid at the rate of $2.50 per tonne on fresh grapes. 
The second Bill, the Wine Grapes Levy Collection Bill 1979, is complementary to the Wine Grapes Levy Bill 1 979 and facilitates the collection of the levy. The third Bill, the Wine Grapes Charges (Repeal) Bill 1979, is a machinery measure to repeal the Wine Grapes Charges Act 1929, which is to be replaced by the Wine Grapes Levy Bill 1979 and the Wine Grapes Levy Collection Bill 1979. The fourth Bill, the 
Wine Overseas Marketing Amendment Bill 1979, contains a consequential amendment to the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929. It has been introduced to maintain arrangements for the appropriation of the proceeds of the wine grape levy to the Australian Wine Board for the funding of its operations. Vignerons and wine producers throughout Australia have told me that they are pleased with the Australian Wine Board's efforts on their behalf regarding the marketing of wine in Australia and overseas and technical research. A large vintage was recorded in 1978 with 431,981 tonnes of fresh grapes being processed. Although yields were down, due to dry conditions, the quality of fruit generally was high. Wine makers expect 1 978 to be a good year for wine from most regions. 
The crop was recently harvested in the Hunter Valley, which I represent, and also in the Mudgee district, which is a very fine wine growing district. Both the Hunter Valley and Mudgee district are well renowned for their quality wines. I will have something to say about them later. Sales of wine show a growth rate of around 6 per cent. This appears to be a satisfactory growth rate but most of the growth is in the dry white wine area where sales are booming. They increased by 28.4 per cent in 1 977-78. It is unfortunate that sales of dry red wine continue to decline despite the fact that some fine quality wines are coming from the wine growing areas of this country. 
Sales of brandy have shown only a very slight increase, despite government assistance against imports and a national campaign by the Australian Wine Board promoting Australian brandy. In 1978 brandy sales showed an increase of 0.05 per cent. However, it is encouraging to note that for the final quarter of 1977-78 they showed an increase of 27 per cent on the corresponding period for the previous year. It is to be hoped that this trend will continue because brandy sales and marketing have given the vignerons and those engaged in the industry great concern. In 1 977-78, 98 per cent of the total sales of Australian wine were made in Australia compared with an average of 90 per cent in the 1960s. Great importance is attached to the domestic market by the industry and the Wine Board. 
Export results have not been good in recent years. They fell again in 1977-78. The Australian wine industry is losing its market in Canada and the United Kingdom which to date have been our principal markets. There has also been a drop in sales to Japan. This is disappointing. Exports to South East Asian and oceanic regions, with the exception of Indonesia and New 
Zealand, were more buoyant. Our total export sales in 1977-78 were $5,277,000, which indicates that the industry is important to this country. Canada took 34 per cent of our wine exports. It took 1,565 kilolitres for a record sum of $1,568,000. The United Kingdom took 10 per cent of our exports, buying 486 kilolitres for $415,000. New Zealand took 444 kilolitres for $664,000. Papua New Guinea- this is a surprise-took 360 kilolitres for $551,000. The United States of America took 227 kilolitres for $274,000. Japan accounted for only 3 per cent of our sales. It took 145 kilolitres for $163,000. Hong Kong took 6 per cent of our exports. It took 290 kilolitres for $282,000. 
We have great problems in trying to gain access for our wine to the European Economic Community. Producers in the Community are heavily subsidised. It was noted in Hong Kong the other day that Bordeaux red wine was selling for $1.50 a bottle. It is difficult for Australia to compete in the EEC market when local wines are heavily subsidised. Great Britain is buying wine in bulk from Sicily and Cyprus. It is taken to the port of Hove which has a large tank farm, similar to a petroleum installation, where wines are stored and bottled. It is very difficult for our wines to gain access to the European market, particularly Great Britain. Australian exports of brandy last year amounted to $408,000. Exports to Canada, our biggest buyer, amounted to $255,000. I have already mentioned the loss of sales to the EEC and the subsidies which its members receive. The Australian Wine Board said in its 1977-78 report that the EEC countries are trying to reduce their massive wine supplies. Eastern European countries have also been exporting low priced wine apparently to gain hard currencies rather than make economic sales. 
It has been very encouraging to note a large increase in the quantities of wine sold in Australia. In 1977-78 sales were 194,671 kilolitres. That figure is up by 6. 1 per cent on the previous year. It is the same rate of increase as was recorded in 1976-77. Dry white wine again raced away with an increase of 28.4 per cent. It now accounts for 39 per cent of the market. This compares with a sales increase of 27 per cent and a market share of 33 per cent in 1 976-77. 1 think that white wine is so popular mainly because people can consume more of it. It has a lesser alcoholic effect on them than red wines. That is the main reason for the white wines presently taking over from the reds. Sales of dry red wine and fortified wine continued their decline with falls of 8 per cent and 16 per cent respectively. Dry white wine now outsells dry red wine by 2.7: 1 whereas four years ago red wines outsold dry white wines. At the beginning of this decade red wine outsold white wine by almost 2: 1. It is also interesting to note that although we produce a considerable quantity of wine we import some wine. The main importing country with which we are concerned is France, which sold us 898,000 kilolitres in the 1977-78 season, Italy sold us 2,593 kilolitres, Germany sold us 2,128 kilolitres and Portugal sold us 1,534 kilolitres. There have been large increases over the past 10 years. Ten years ago the importation of wine was practically non-existent. There has been a large increase in imports of wine. 
I have mentioned that quality grapes are produced in the Hunter Valley and the Mudgee area. These areas are in the electorate of Paterson. In those areas there has been a big switch to white wine. The vines are being switched from red to white by bud transplants to catch up with changing drinking preferences. This is a technical change which has proved successful not only in the Hunter Valley but also, I understand, in other wine growing areas of Australia. The growers have realised that they will have to produce more whites and less reds. 
A major grafting program of grape vines is under way in the Hunter Valley, replacing the costly and drawn out process of planting new grapes. At the Saxonvale Vineyards hundreds of vines have been operated on and are doing fine. Buds from chardonnay, traminer and sauvignon blanc vines were transplanted there last spring on to 13 hectares of shiraz root stock, a red variety. Very few of the transplants have been rejected. The success rate has been 95 per cent. With transplants the new vines take only two years to mature compared with five years under the old system. So there is a tremendous advantage in using the transplant system. The cost of the operation is reduced by more than 60 per cent. The increased flexibility will satisfy fluctuating market needs and promises an end to the seesawing fortunes of wine production. The industry can no longer afford not to be able to supply market needs. Whites are popular at the moment but reds could swing back at any time. 
The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles)  indicated in his address in this debate that there would be great technological changes in the industry and the transplant method that I have just mentioned is an example of the success that has been achieved so far by change. The Mudgee Winegrowers Association is very active in the Mudgee district where vineyards were established in 1858. By 1880 there were 13 wineries and 20 vineyards in this area. But following the Depression years it took a long while for the industry in the Mudgee district to recover. The industry has been reawakened in the past few years after it expanded in the late 1960s and the early 1970s. There are now 40 vineyards in the Mudgee area with total plantings of 570 hectares. They are small ventures. They supply table grapes for the Sydney market and grapes to the new crop of vineyards in the Mudgee district. This year, 1979, the wineries crushed 1,200 tonnes of grapes, the smallest crushing being 35 tonnes and the largest being 300 tonnes. There are 10 wineries in the Mudgee area at the present time. They include the Augustine Vineyard; Burnbrae Wines; Botobolar Vineyard; Craigmore Wines; de Windmolen; Huntington Estate; Miramar Wines; Mansfield Wines; Mudgee Vineyards; and Montrose wines. The wineries are run by families. The wine industry in this district is a family interest. 
The industry provides employment and there is a great tourist industry in the area. As a matter of fact, $3. 5m has been invested in tourist facilities because of the wine industry in the Mudgee district. Most wineries are in the development stage. The Mudgee Winegrowers Association is doing a magnificent job to publicise the industry in the Mudgee area. It is producing quality wines which are acceptable to people who like wine, either white or red. The wine industry in country areas is providing employment for many people. It is also creating an interest in tourism. This encourages people to come to the Hunter Valley or to the Mudgee area. In the Hunter Valley over $100m has been invested in the past few years and the old established families and firms like Tyrrells', Tulloch and Sons, the Rothbury Estate and the Wyndham Estate are doing exceedingly well. Some wealthy firms have come into the industry, particularly in the past five or six years, but because they do not have sufficient knowhow and because of the high costs- it is a heavy cost industry- they have run into difficulties. Unfortunately, some of them have gone to the wall and this has not been good for the industry. 
Australia has a great opportunity to increase its export sales of both white and red wines. Many of the vignerons, particularly in the Hunter Valley, are taking advantage of the export incentives introduced by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and they are exporting large quantities of wine to the United States of America and to Canada. There is no doubt that there are opportunities to increase wine exports to these countries. Therefore, the proposed levy to provide promotional funds for the Australian 
Wine Board is supported. It is doing a jolly good job. None of the vignerons whom I have met is unhappy with it. It is a good thing that this levy is being imposed. It will help the Board to increase its publicity for the export of Australian wine and also to publicise the sale of wine in this country. 
-This Bill seeks to amend the Atomic Energy Act 1 953 and is known as the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill 1979. The purpose of the Bill is to enable the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to borrow moneys from the Commonwealth or elsewhere and to give security and issue securities in respect of borrowings other than from the Commonwealth to enable the Treasurer to guarantee repayment by the Commission of moneysborrowed other than from the Commonwealthand to provide that where securities are issued by the Commission, repayment is guaranteed by the Commonwealth. The Bill includes a number of technical amendments to provisions in Part II of the Act relating to the procedures, powers and operations of the Commission. 
In June of last year the Atomic Energy Act was amended to enable the Commission to participate, on behalf of the Commonwealth, in a venture shared with Peko Mines Ltd and Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd. The whole nub of this Act is that we are a partner in 
Peko-EZ. Consequently we have to play our part in the financial responsibilities of that partnership. These agreements were signed on 9 January 1979 by the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony).  Parliament had decided that a certain proportion of the Commonwealth's share of the cost of developing the Ranger uranium deposits would be raised by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission by way of borrowings. I have had the pleasure, as a member of the Government members trade and resources committee, to visit the Ranger development and to inspect the yellowcake deposits in the Northern Territory. 
The provisions in respect of the Atomic Energy Act are totally inadequate to enable money to be borrowed on the semi-government market. Indeed, the provisions do not authorise the Treasurer to guarantee borrowings by the Commission. Without such guarantee the Commission is unable to borrow within the maximum rates agreed by the Australian Loan Council for semi-government borrowings. The Bill is designed to provide power for the Commission to issue public securities and to guarantee those securities. Division 3 of the Act concerning staff of the Commission is repealed by the Bill and replaced with staffing provisions to bring the Act into line with more recent provisions applying to the staff of statutory authorities of the Commonwealth. Clause 6, which is a quite lengthy clause, seeks to amend a number of financial provisions ofthe Act. 
It has been most interesting to listen to the speeches of members of the Opposition. First of all, I would like to deal with the speech by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who moved an amendment to the legislation. The amendment states in part: 
. the Atomic Energy Commission should not be empowered to raise funds on the commercial market for uranium mining until such time as the unresolved problems associated with the nuclear industry have been satisfactorily resolved . . . 
The honourable member for Blaxland and the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who also spoke for the Opposition in this debate, put up a rearguard action. The whole policy of the Opposition, since uranium mining and the export of yellowcake was brought to the fore in this assembly, has been to put up a rearguard action. The Opposition wants to stop the mining of uranium and the export of yellowcake. However, we on the Government side want to market this commodity because not only will it be of economic advantage to Australia but also it will be a cheap source of energy for the rest of the world. 
It is true that Australia does not need nuclear power. 
-Western Australia might. That part of Australia, which is well represented in this place, is a remote area. The honourable member for Blaxland talked about our coal deposits. It is true that there is sufficient coal in the Bowen Basin in Queensland, the Hunter Valley in New South Wales and the brown coal deposits in Victoria to supply the power needs of this country. Honourable members on this side of the House are in agreement with him on this point. But that does not mean that we should not be mining, milling and marketing our yellowcake. The honourable member for Reid said that we did not have overseas markets for our yellowcake. We jolly well have, and he knows that we have. We can sell our yellowcake to the United States of America, Canada, South Africa and West Germany. Indeed, the other day in this building the Minister for Trade and Resources signed a contract with the Prime Minister of Korea for the export of 80,000 tonnes of yellowcake to Korea over the next 20 years. 
That is right. Certainly Australia is short of liquid fuel. Geologists have told the Government members trade and resources committee that any finds of liquid fuel in the future probably will be off-shore and that there was a limited possibility of finding it on land. 
Nineteen oil drilling rigs were operating in Australia when the Labor Party took over the reins of government of this country. However, within 12 months the number was down to two. Who denuded the possibility of finding oil in this country? None other than members of the party that now makes up the Opposition. 
Not many members of the Opposition are listening to the debate. They make their speeches and then clear off because they know that they do not have a case to put. They talk about breaking up the Atomic Energy Commission. This Commission - 
No. I will just carry on. Members of the Opposition talk about breaking up the Atomic Energy Commission. The Commission has been involved with the marketing of yellowcake ever since its discovery in this country. It has expertise and know-how in this area. In no way should the present Commission be split up. It is doing a splendid job and we know that it is exporting yellowcake. I believe that it would be a retrograde step to split up the Commission. 
The Opposition is dead intent upon stopping this country from marketing one of its most valuable commodities. I cannot understand its attitude. In 1983 or 1984 Australia will be faced with a very serious balance of payments position because of our need to import oil from Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf. The export of yellowcake is one way in which we can look after our balance of payments position. The export of this resource can really be of economic advantage to this country. Therefore, I really  cannot  understand the position taken by the Opposition. 
The honourable member for Reid talked about the crisis at Harrisburg in the United States. I respect his opinion on the uranium issue. I have followed him and he has followed me on many occasions when the subject of uranium has been debated in this place. The crisis at Harrisburg was of concern not only to the residents of the area around the power station but also to the whole nuclear industry throughout the world. However, with great technical skill and knowledge the problem was rectified without any loss of life or injury. The Harrisburg incident is an indication that the knowledge throughout the Western world of nuclear energy is extremely good. The cooling down of the reactor was watched by the eyes of the world and the technology that was used was shown to be of a very high standard. The successful operation indicated to the world, and in particular the countries which are relying on nuclear power for the energy needs of their people, that this is a quite safe means of generating energy. 
Not long after the incident at Harrisburg a uranium enrichment plant was opened in France, which was an indication of the confidence of that nation in nuclear energy. The  Sydney Morning Herald  of 1 1 April 1979 contained a report of the opening of the plant. It stated: 
The French Prime Minister,  Mr Barre,  formally opened a uranium enrichment plant at Tricastin,  in southern France, yesterday. 
Opponents of France's nuclear energy program have stepped up their protests following the accident at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania. 
But  Mr Barre  said that soaring oil prices left no alternative to nuclear power if France wished to remain an independent atomic power and an industrial exporting nation. 
 France has no choice ' he said while touring the plant. ' It 's either nuclear energy or economic recession and mass unemployment.' 
That indicates that, despite the Harrisburg problem, that nation is prepared to go on with its nuclear plants. 
That is right. The honourable member for Reid talked about the slowing down of the nuclear energy program in the United States of America. This is a lot of nonsense. The United States of America has 70 nuclear power stations in operation, 70 under construction at present and another 69 contracted for. That shows what the United States thinks of nuclear power and its safety. The honourable member for Reid said also that when yellowcake is exported there is no way we can be certain that it will be used for peaceful purposes; that is, for the provision of power for lighting and so on. For his information, I point out that all the major countries of the world have nuclear warheads and nuclear power. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was formulating our policy on the export of uranium he made it very clear that it was to be used for peaceful purposes. If it could be proved that is was being used for anything other than peaceful purposes, there is no doubt that the supply from this country would be cut off. Yellowcake uranium ore is one of our great assets. If the Opposition is going to endeavour continually to stop its marketing it will do this country a great disservice. It is high time that it woke up to this fact. No doubt some socialist countries would like to see the development of Australian uranium stepped right down for economic and other reasons. 
That is right. Russia would not like to see us developing our nuclear industry. I do not know about China. It was a great pleasure to be in that country recently and I know that it has nuclear warheads and is interested in the nuclear industry. I have said many times that this is an industry which this Government wants to get on with. It wants to mine uranium, mill it and get it away overseas to those countries that I have enumerated in this speech. Surely the Opposition should realise the value of this commodity and get on side instead of putting up obstruction and making every effort to restrict its development. It is remarkable that involved in these meetings which are held to object to the export of this wonderful uranium product are socialists of the Left. They do not want to see this country progress in any way. The same demonstrators appear in Sydney, in Brisbane and in other parts of Australia. Along with my colleagues on this side of the House, I support the Bill. We know that it is to the advantage of this country and that it will be passed without any problems. 
-Is the Treasurer aware of fullpage advertisements appearing in the  Australian Financial Review  and other national newspapers advertising tax avoidance schemes? Is this causing considerable concern to the Treasury and also placing an added burden on the average taxpayer? What steps is the Government taking to stop those tax avoidance schemes being implemented? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. What has been the effect on the wheat industry in New South Wales of industrial problems on the Sydney and Newcastle waterfronts? What is the outlook as far as wheat shipments are concerned? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Is cancer responsible for 17 per cent of deaths in Australia at present. 
What funds are being made available by the Government for cancer research. 
Is Australia co-operating with the United States of America and Great Britain in thisfield, and what advances have been made in the treatment of this disease. 
-The purpose of the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill is to amend the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Act 1964 to increase the maximum rates of levy which may be prescribed for cattle disease eradication and to provide for the introduction of levies on the slaughter of two categories of calves. A major export market, the United States of America, and a number of other countries are on the way towards eradicating tuberculosis and brucellosis. In the past 3 years Australia has provided grants totalling $8.5m for the compulsory slaughter of reactor animals. Over the same period the Government has advanced $47m for campaign operations which, of course, are carried out by the various State departments of agriculture. It can be seen therefore that the Government views the eradication of disease from our cattle herds as being of the utmost importance. 
Given the marked improvement in cattle returns, it has been decided to increase the industry's rate of contribution to brucellosis and TB eradication control. The levy on cattle is being increased from $ 1 to $3 per head. The Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation has requested that a levy should be placed on calves slaughtered. Until now calves under 90 kilograms dressed weight have been exempt from levy. Bobby calves are to be levied at 10 per cent of the rate for cattle. The rate for heavy calves is approximately 35 per cent of the cattle rate. For disease eradication, the proposed maximum levels are, respectively, 30c and $ 1 per head. The levies are to take effect from 1 July next at the maximum levels in the Bill, namely, $3, $1 and 30c per head. This is expected to raise $23. 26m in a full year. 
The other four Bills which are being considered in this cognate debate relate to the implementation of the various levels mentioned in the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  whose opinion I respect in relation to matters concerning the meat and livestock industry, has described the levies that have been imposed by the Government in this instance as a bit harsh. The honourable member should remember that when the Australian Labor Party was in power in 1974 and the cattle industry was practically on its knees, it made no effort at all to decrease the levy. Should there be a downturn in the cattle prices, this Government certainly will be prepared to review the levies that this legislation places on the cattle industry. We will reconsider these levies; there is no doubt about that. 
The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  has stated that the levy of $3 a head for cattle and the smaller amount for calves is a dreadful tax. Considering the prices that are being paid for our cattle at the market today, it is not a dreadful tax. Record sales of beef are being made to the United States of America, Japan, Korea, Canada and Iran. The Ayatollah Khomeini of Iran has agreed to buy 5,000 tonnes of beef from this country. So it is essential that we make sure that the meat going to these countries is free of diseases. Japan will buy 63,000 tonnes of beef between July and December of this year. Recently it was a pleasure for me to be in Japan as part of a government delegation. We met  Mr Ota,  the  Chairman  of the Japanese Livestock Board, and questioned him in regard to increased purchases of Australian beef by that country. We could see after a few weeks there that the Japanese housewife was most dissatisfied with paying $A24 per lb for Kobe beef and that she would be pressing the Japanese Government to import more Australian beef, which sells on that market for $A6 or $A7 per lb. This has come to pass. Again, we must make certain that our beef arrives in that country disease free. 
Our present cattle herds are down to the figure of 23,935,000. In recent weeks the figure of 26 million head of cattle has been quoted in the Press. This afternoon, I contacted the Australian Bureau of Statistics in Canberra and was advised that its interim figure as at 31 March was 23,935,000 head- that is, in the last two yean there has been a diminution of one third in Australia's beef cattle numbers. The Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation possibly will be unable to meet the current market demand by the end of next year due to a sharper than expected decline in the national cattle herd. In the opinion of this organisation, even with a moderate rate of cattle herd rebuilding, Australia's beef production could drop by an estimated 27 per cent in the next two years. In March of this year 884,000 beef cattle were slaughtered in Australia. That is the highest figure since June of last year. 
Let us look at what the Industries Assistance Commission had to say when it conducted an inquiry into the eradication of disease. The Commission was asked in 1975 to conduct an investigation, and I think it would be appropriate to quote its findings on disease control in cattle. In respect of brucellosis, it stated: 
That eradication is justified on three grounds- 
) the hazard to human health; 
the loss of productivity to the livestock industry; 
the potential threat to export markets. 
That eradication is feasible though difficult to attain. 
That for reasons of commerce the Australian program should aim for provisionally free status by 1983 contemporaneously with the USA program. 
That the major benefits of eradication would accrue to producers but that the Australian Government should assist financially. 
That is what this Government is doing. It is assisting the industry financially, as it has done over the years. It is essential to the industry that Commonwealth Government funds be made available for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. The fifth finding of the Commission states: 
That compensation for full market value should be paid and that 75 per cent of net compensation costs should be met by the Australian Government and the remaining 25 per cent by the various State Governments. 
Let me turn to the very serious problems that are facing abattoirs in this country at the moment. With the downturn in cattle numbers the abattoirs are trading at a considerable loss. In my electorate of Paterson there are four major abattoirs located at Mudgee, Gunnedah, Maitland and Aberdeen. The works at Mudgee, Gunnedah and Maitland are local government works, they are service works. They kill on behalf of operators, who get the edible meat, and the works get a killing fee and the non-edible byproducts. Because of the downturn in cattle numbers these works at the moment are finding it very difficult financially to carry on. The works at Maitland normally kill 1,600 to 2,000 head of cattle but that number is down to 600 and the abattoir is working a four-day week. The Cudgegong works near Mudgee normally kill 1 ,700 to 2,000 head of grown cattle but it is down to 430 head a week and is operating on a three-day week. The Gunnedah abattoir, which normally slaughters 3,200 head of cattle, is down to anything from 700 to 1,000 head. This is a serious situation. It indicates that in this country there is a shortage of cattle which is seriously affecting market supplies. This shortage has pushed up the price of cattle on markets. The high prices are due to the reduced numbers of cattle in the United States of America and in this country. 
Australia's present turnoff for slaughter is not much in excess of domestic requirements plus the United States quota, and this will diminish further in 1979-80. Prices are high in the United States because of reduced cattle numbers there, and this is leading to a strong demand for imported beef. This demand will continue for the next two or three years. The United States can and will pay more than any other market for our export beef. The United States quota therefore has first call on Australia's exportable surplus. Other countries will get only what is left over. The United States has placed stringent hygiene requirements on our meatworks. It is extremely keen on a high standard of hygiene and on the export of disease free carcass meat to that country. Therefore it is extremely important that the program for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis be carried on throughout Australia. 
The United States prices are now about 20c per lb above the price in any other market, except the Canadian and Japanese chilled beef markets, where the margin is 5c to 10c. The United States entitlement under the arrangements is now 2 lc to 22c per lb, which is reflected in current market prices. Cattle values are now so high that operators are unable to supply any markets other than those in North America and Australia without substantial losses. Recently a member of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation said that Australia had no hope of filling the export orders for beef, live sheep and live cattle that are currently pouring in from all over the world. He continued: 
Just 13 months ago we were literally praying for people to buy our meat, but couldn't get any orders from anybody. 
What a change has taken place! We now have orders for our disease-free meat from the United States of America, Canada, Korea, Japan, as I have already mentioned, and also from Iraq and Iran. Orders are coming in from other areas as well. Today the situation is the exact reverse from that of 12 months ago, to the point where there is no way in the world that we can fill the orders we are now getting. This is a desperate situation for our livestock industry when it is considered that 12 months ago the market was depressed, cattle producers' costs had caught up with them and they were in dire straits. As honourable members know, the Government brought in a cattle compensation scheme and paid out approximately $117m to assist cattle producers to maintain some sort of viability. But within a few months of the completion of that program the industry is faced with a market situation in which it is having difficulty in fulfilling orders. The Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation predicted that beef cattle numbers would bottom out at 26.7 million over the next 1 8 months, but many people now believe that it will be more like 25 million, compared with the peak of more than 33 million in 1976. A few moments ago it was said that statistics from the Australian Bureau of Statistics reveal that as at 3 1 March the interim figure was about 23 million. 
The meat industry missed out by $649 on becoming Australia's second largest export earner in the seven months to 31 January. Exports of meat and meat preparations earned $868,052,000 in the period, which represents a 43 per cent jump and elevated meat from fifth to third place in the export league. The biggest contributor to Australia's balance of payments remained metalliferous ores, mainly iron ore. Second on the list was coal, coke and briquettes which rose from $829m to $869m. However, meat now plays an important role in Australia's export trade. This year it is estimated that meat exports will be worth $ 1,500m to the end of December. Housewives in Australia who want disease-free meat- meat free from brucellosis and tuberculosis- last year purchased 60,000 tonnes of Austraiian beef. I suppose that because of high prices on the market today the housewife will probably think twice before she buys beef and puts it on the menu. But let us look at the situation. Whilst the higher prices at the saleyards were helping beef producers beef was still cheap in Australia compared with overseas. As I said a while ago, Kobe beef was selling at $24 per lb in supermarkets in Japan. A family needs to work fewer hours to buy a pound of meat today than it did 20 or even 10 years ago. It is important to the housewife that she compare meat price movements with prices for other commodities. Beef prices, adjusted for inflation, are 25 per cent lower now than they were at the 1973-74 peak and 10 per cent lower than at any other time between 1966 and 1972. So the Government is wise at this time to bring in these increased levies in order to eradicate diseases, namely, tuberculosis and brucellosis. The Government believes that because of the increased prices being obtained for meat in Australia, particularly beef, that the producers are able to withstand these charges. Furthermore, it is essential that Australia's meat, both that for export and that for domestic consumption, be disease free. The legislation which is before the chamber tonight is supported by honourable members on this side of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister of Transport, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
Have the New South Wales and South Australia Governments decided to proceed to stage 3 of ADR 27A in respect of emission controls on motor vehicles. 
With the shortage of petroleum fuels, will this action mean considerably increased fuel consumption. 
Will he take up this important matter with the States concerned in order to conserve essential liquid fuels. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry advise the House whether shipments of beef to the United States will fill the quota entitlement this year? If so, is there likely to be any distribution of shortfall? In either event, what is the effect of the announced introduction  of counter-cyclical restraints on future levels of beef imports? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) How many Vietnamese have (a) arrived and (b) been allowed to remain in Australia to date. 
) Are many more arrivals expected. 
What action is proposed in respect of further arrivals from Vietnam. 
-There have been considerable newspaper articles over the past few weeks concerning the activity of a supposed religious sect, known as the 'Moonies', which uses the name the 'Unification Church'. That sect is hellbent on destroying the Christian upbringing and family life of many young Australians. The Unification Church has been very active in attempting to enlist fine young school leavers in the lower Hunter region of the Paterson electorate, particularly in the city of Maitland, which I represent in this chamber. A 20-year-old lad from Maitland has been inveigled into this organisation and, of course, this has caused his parents great concern. This organisation is raising funds by the door-to-door selling of various goods. Members of the Moonie cult have succeeded in enticing fine young men and women from their family life and have brainwashed them in such a way that their parents no longer have any influence over them. 
The head of the cult is a well known Korean millionaire who lives in America, Sun Myung Moon. He is an armament manufacturer and has factories in Korea in the pharmaceutical and tea production area.  His  goal is world government domination through the control of the wealth and institutions of key countries. He calls himself The Father' or 'The Master' and claims that he is a reincarnation of God.  His  movement operates under scores of different identities and front organisations, but is best known as the Unification Church. 
Some cultists in America have said that they are willing to kill for their beliefs. A young Sydney member of the cult, recruited in America, told his brother that he could kill his family if necessary. Others have given evidence of being instructed in methods of taking their own lives. Two members have died in Sydney. Ronald Hughes, who said he was trying to break free from the cult and hold onto his mind, hanged himself in the grounds of the North Ryde Psychiatric Centre last November. Other young people have killed themeselves after making pledges to do so. This cult parallels the mass suicide order obeyed by more than 900 members of an American mind control sect in Jonestown, Guyana last year, after their leaders murdered a United States Congressional investigator and a reporter. Indeed,  Senator Don  Jessop said in the Senate recently that the Moonie cult could be compared with the Jonestown sect. 
There is no doubt that the cult is preparing to launch large scale operations in Australia. It has regional centres in Sydney, Canberra, Adelaide and Perth, and was recently reported to police to have become active in the Newcastle area and in the city of Brisbane. The cult operates here under some corporate names such as the Unification Church, the Universal Church of the Holy Spirit, One World Enterprise Pty Ltd, the Federation for World Peace and Unification Ltd and Freedom Leadership Foundation Ltd. The chief front organisation appears to be the Holy Spirit Association for the Unification of World Christianity Ltd. This company is registered in Victoria and I understand that it has failed to make company returns in that State. 
This is an institution which should be banned in Australia. It is up to the Federal Government and the various State governments to take action to see that it is banned because it is an institution which is no good for Australia and is destroying the lives of our wonderful young people. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact that the oil crisis triggered off by Iran has created problems for the Japanese power and gas utilities? Has this had the effect of directing Japanese requirements towards North West Shelf liquid natural gas? Can the Minister inform the House of the present trend in relation to this important natural resource? 
-The Budget provides for an expenditure of $31 billion in 1979-80 as compared with the $29 billion provided in the last Budget. That is an increase of something like 9.8 per cent. The underlying principle in the Budget has been the attack upon inflation which is so necessary if the economy of Australia is to be sound. It must never be forgotten that when the Fraser-Anthony Government took over from the Whitlam Labor Administration at the end of 1973 inflation was running as high as 17 per cent. The deficit was in the order of $4 billion and the Labor Government had increased its Budget expenditure from $16 billion to $22 billion. It was the highest increase in the history of Australian Budgets- a rise of 138 per cent. The Labor Government was endeavouring to arrest the situation by borrowing $4 billion, not through the normal financial banking channels but through an intermediary, Khemlani, sitting on a box in a dingy London office. 
The 1975-76 Budget was brought down by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  whose fiscal policy was a national disaster. Surely he cannot be trusted at any future time. Labor economic policies have been a catastrophe and they are well remembered by the people of this country. The present Fraser-Anthony Government has restored confidence, reduced inflation to 8 per cent and improved overseas trade balances. Private capital inflow for 1978-79 was the greatest in the last seven years. Real gross domestic product has increased by 4.7 per cent. Farm product has increased by 36 per cent and non-farm product by 3 per cent. Business in all sections has shown considerable improvement. Most companies in all fields of Australian business have shown increased returns. 
This Budget has brought about a resurgence in the stock exchange activity in all Australian capital cities. This started the day after the Budget was brought down in this House by the Federal Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  The Sydney Stock Exchange, in particular, received a real impetus in confidence as shown by increases in shares right across the board, not only those of energy companies but also those of companies involved in the textile and metal industries. There was a resurgence of confidence in all those industries. In business activities last year fixed investment in Australia recorded an increase of 10 per cent in real terms. What has happened in the bond market? There has been the greatest activity of all time. Indeed, the Reserve Bank of Australia ran out of bonds. This certainly shows two things: The investors have confidence in the economy of this country- in the ability of this Government to manage it- and they know that interest rates have probably reached their highest level. 
Speakers on the Opposition side of the House in this debate, as always, have been prophets of doom. They have talked about increased unemployment, poverty, deprivation and lack of compassion on the part of the Government. This is absolute nonsense and rubbish. Sure, there is some poverty and there always will be despite what any government may do in an effort to eradicate and eliminate it altogether. As one travels about this country one sees that the work force seems to enjoy an affluence that workers in hundreds of other nations throughout the world would like to have. This is to be applauded as the work force is entitled to enjoy the benefits of an economy that is second only to the economies of West Germany and the United States of America. 
Sure, there is unemployment, but what created this trend? None other than the Whitlam Labor Government by introducing a 25 per cent tariff cut across the board in all sections of industry. It was apparent that no homework had been done before this step was taken and over 125,000 employees found themselves out of work, without jobs. Goods were allowed to enter Australia which were often manufactured by people who earned a wage of about $A12 a month. One can imagine the effect that this had in this country, particularly in the textile and footwear industries and in other industries of that nature. Unemployment has flowed on from this point. 
Our Government believes in the reduction of tariffs but in areas of manufacture which have been fully checked out and investigated to ascertain what effect reductions could have on unemployment, the community and the economy. Notwithstanding the unemployment problem, over 4.7 million men and women are employed in the Australian work force at present. This is the greatest number of people ever employed in Australian history. People must have regard to this fact. Our work force is the greatest of all time. It has increased by 62,800 people as compared with last year. The Government has many schemes to assist the unemployed to obtain positions. Expenditure on the Commonwealth Rebate Apprenticeship Full-time Training scheme has been increased from $28.4m to $54.3m in this Budget- an increase of $25.9m. The number of people assisted will increase from 28,500 to 85,000. This Government has provided these funds to eliminate unemployment. Other schemes in the unemployment field provided for in the Budget include the Community Youth Support scheme, which is well supported in my electorate and indeed throughout the nation, and the National Employment and Training scheme. This program embraces the Special Youth Employment Training program and the Education Program for Unemployed Youth, which seek to assist unemployed youth. I am amazed that in many instances the unemployed youth of this country are not aware of these schemes. We should be giving more publicity to them so that these people will be aware of them. Whilst these schemes are assisting the unemployed it is in the commercial and business sectors of the community that employment opportunities have to be increased. With business confidence returning and company profits increasing there could be an improvement in this area in the future. Some improvement is occurring at present. Unemployment is slowly coming down. With companies like Broken Hill Proprietary Ltd, Mt Isa Mines Holdings Ltd, CSR Ltd, and many other companies that I could name, having increased profits, business activities and confidence in the future, I feel sure that employment opportunities in these fields will increase and thus unemployment will decrease. 
The pensioners will benefit considerably from this Budget. Australia has over 1,250,000 pensioners in various categories and this Budget provides for proposed expenditure of $8,925m on pensions, the second largest expenditure item in the Budget. That is a tremendous amount of money which will benefit a large number of pensioners including widow pensioners, age pensioners, repatriation pensioners, single parents and so on. The proposed expenditure is an increase of 9.6 per cent on last year's expenditure and represents 28 per cent of total Budget outlays. The indexation of social security and repatriation pensions has been restored and twiceyearly automatic increases will be made. This means there will be an increase in pensions in November 1979 and in May 1980. It is expected that the restoring of twice-yearly indexation will absorb $63m in a full year. In addition, pensioner fringe benefits will be increased in many fields at a cost of $23m in a full year. In this regard the eligibility for the pensioner health cards has been extended to include supporting parents and their children. This means that supporting parents will be eligible for the cards, as are widows and other sole parents in similar circumstances, and will be eligible for certain fringe benefits such as free pharmaceuticals. The basic income test limits for eligibility for pensioner health cards have not been altered since 1973. This has resulted in the loss of this benefit by large numbers of pensioners. As a consequence, the Government has decided to increase the limits from $33 to $40 a week in respect of single parents and from $57.50 to $68 a week in respect of married couples. These extensions will be effective from 1 November and are estimated to cost a total of $ 13m in 1979-80 and $23m in the following year. 
Let me refer to payments to the Wran Government in New South Wales which is always screaming poor mouth. It has been allocated by this Government untied grants larger than those to any other State Government in Australia 's history. The New South Wales Government under Premier Wran has been receiving huge grants of untied funds from the Federal Government, yet 

 Mr Wran and his Ministers are crying poor circumstances and blaming the Federal Government for any problems or shortcomings they may have. I would like to cite the amounts of untied grants- not special grants for health, education and so on- that have been allocated to the New South Wales Government. In 1974-75 the grants totalled $737.5m. In 1975-76 they totalled $946.6m. In 1976-77 they totalled $1,1 13.4m. In 1977-78 they totalled $l,319.6m and in 1978-79 they totalled $ 1,667m. State Ministers in all portfolios are blaming the Federal Government. They should be more responsible in their administration of the grants and the people of New South Wales should wake up and change their Government to ensure that better use is made of these funds. Fancy that, untied grants to the New South Wales State Government have risen from $737m to $ 1,667m in five years. That Government is wasting its funds and is not responsibly administering the Federal Government grants. The State government continues to cry poor mouth but it is as well to realise that during the past three years the published combined deficit of all the States amounted to only $5m and the Commonwealth had a massive total deficit over this period of $9,523m. The New South Wales Government, like all governments, wants more cash to spend on its own pet schemes, but it is not prepared to accept the responsibility or to be held accountable to the electorate for raising it. The receipt by the State Government of $ 1,667m or an extra $203m this year from the Commonwealth will provide it with sufficient funds to carry out its own program. It is a wealthy State Government and it allocates its funds according to its own priorities and any reduction in any one area is because of that Government's priorities, not because of any shortage of funds. 
It is very pleasing to see in this Budget the increase in proposed expenditure through the Grants Commission to local government bodies in New South Wales. A sum of $80. 9m is being made available in Federal funds this financial year for allocation to local government bodies in New South Wales. A sum of $80.9m is being made available in Federal funds this financial year for allocation to local government compared with $65. 4m last year. The promise made by the Commonwealth Government that over a period of three Budgets 2 per cent of personal income tax would be paid to local governments is well under way. This year the 950 local government bodies in Australia will receive 0.25 per cent of personal income tax revenue. This allocation will means that many millions of dollars will be spread throughout Australia in untied local government grants. So it is up to the local government bodies to decide how these funds will be administered and what projects they will be used for. In the next Budget this Government will increase the allocation to 2 per cent of personal income tax revenue. 
In relation to the coal industry, it is good to know that this Government has had regard to this industry which brings over $ 1,200m annually into our economy. In the electorate of Paterson great developments are taking place in the coal industry. 
Yes, and in other parts of Australia. The Hunter Valley district of New South Wales in the Paterson electorate has developed into one of the biggest coal-producing areas in Australia. The district has a huge commitment to coal exports to Japan, Korea, Great Britain and many other countries. There is great competition in this export field and in this Budget the existing coal export duty of $3.50 per tonne on high quality coking coal will be reduced for open-cut operations and major expansions of such operations commencing production after 30 June 1980 and for existing and future underground mines. This will take care of contracts entered into after that time. The rate of duty to apply will be $ 1 per tonne, the rate applicable to exports of lower grade coking coal. These changes will take place on 1 November 1979 and the cost to revenue is estimated at $12m in 1 979-80 and $ 1 9m in a full year. Our coal mining operators will be protected because although the Japanese offer a great market for our coal they are very keen financial operators who like to cut the price wherever possible. The changes will be of great help in meeting that competition. 
A world wide shortage of energy exists particularly in regard to liquid fuels. If the Australian Government had failed to take the drastic but correct decision on oil prices, Australian motorists would have been living in a fool's paradise. No one likes paying more for petrol but no one likes being without petrol either. This is the stark choice for Australians. The simple fact is that whilst Australia now produces 70 per cent of its crude oil needs, the life of known reserves of Australian-produced oil is limited. Every barrel of Australian-produced oil that we use has to be replaced. Unless exploration is encouraged, and is successful, oil that is used will have to be replaced by oil bought on the world market. 
In the month of July Australia imported petroleum products of the order of $155,744,000. 
That indicates that when we have a strike on our seaboard or down on Bass Strait, we have to import more crude oil at world parity prices. This is another factor which the Government has taken into consideration. Australia will soon face a bill for its oil imports of $2,000m a year. It would have been considerably higher had the Government not adopted policies which have increased our oil reserves and encouraged conservation. While the rest of the world was facing up to the inescapable fact that the days of cheap energy were over, in recent years Australians paid for Australian produced crude oil less than half the world price for crude. No doubt this encouraged waste of a vital energy resource. It meant that there was no incentive to explore for more oil in Australia or to find more efficient energy using processes and technology. Australia has based its price of Australian produced oil on the price of Arabian oil at the official selling price in the Persian Gulf with allowances for freight and differences in quality. Because the Government is in control of the situation Australians will not be victims of the extremes of the oil price market. 
Whilst a large part of the increased revenue from the oil price increase in Australia goes to the Government, this provides the Government with the means of pursuing this energy policy objective. The Government has active programs on energy research and development, and this year it has committed $15m for additional support of energy research and development. An amount of $ 10m has already been approved and there is $3. 5m for coal resources and coal mining research. 
I ask the Minister for National Development whether it is a fact that a meeting of Government Ministers was held yesterday with executives of the major oil companies concerning oil supplies to Australia? If so can the Minister inform the House whether the meeting was successful? Can the Minister say whether increased supplies of petroleum to Australia will result? 
-The purpose of this Bill is to increase the annual percentage of net personal income tax collections allocated to local government under the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976 from 1.52 per cent to 1.75 per cent. In November 1977 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced that the share of net personal income tax collections allocated to local government would be increased to 2 per cent by 1980-81. This Bill is a major step towards fulfilling this promise. There is no doubt that in the next Budget local government's share of income tax will be of the order of 2 per cent. 
Under this legislation approximately 950 local government councils throughout Australia will benefit. An amount of $22 1.74m will be made available to local government under this legislation. The share to New South Wales will be $80,929,752. The funds, of course, cannot be made available to local government councils until this Bill is passed. This Bill is a very important measure particularly in view of the announcement already made to local government bodies about the sums of money that will be available. This news has come at a vital time. Town clerks and shire clerks throughout the land are preparing their estimates and budgets for the 1980 local government financial year. These grants have become a vital part of local government finance and are of great assistance to the councils. This year's allocation will mean increases of 2 1 per cent to 24 per cent on last year's allocations. I cannot agree with the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who said that local government councils in the Hunter Valley area are being denuded of funds. Two provincial cities in the area will receive large amounts under this legislation. Those provincial cities are Maitland and Cessnock. The increases range from 2 1 per cent to 24 per cent right across the board. 
The funds allocated in this Bill far outstrip the amount of $79.9m made available by the Labor Government in its 1975-76 Budget. This LiberalNational Country Party Government has high regard for the financial needs of local government- the third tier of governmentwhich is, of course, the form of government that is closest to the people. Great changes have taken place in this third tier of government over the past 25 years. Gone are the horse and buggy days when councils were mainly concerned with the maintenance of streets, kerbs and gutters and other incidental operations. Today people living in local government areas require up-to-date facilities such as parks, sporting ovals, swimming pools, baby health centres, libraries, aerodromes, water and sewerage systems and many other facilities. This means, of course, that local governments require increased funds to provide the facilities. Local government is endeavouring today to provide social services facilities in setting up a complete service to help pensioners and others who need social service assistance. District nurses are accommodated in facilities through finance provided by local government. 
A host of other facilities is financed by this third tier of government. They are financed by an outmoded method and it is necessary that local governments receive additional funds to enable them to carry out their programs. The only source of income for local government comes from the rates on the unimproved capital value of land. In many areas councils conduct abattoirs, gas works and reticulating electricity stations. Local government has made a great contribution to the Australian meat industry and many country abattoirs which are controlled by local governments are extremely successful. 
That might be so. That depends on the management, the flow of stock and a few other matters. Honourable members know the works that the honourable member for Paterson is connected with and that is a most successful one. The services which are provided by local government have to a large degree lightened the financial burden of both State and Federal governments. It is only fair that a share of the general taxation revenue should be allocated to the third tier of government. In short, it is reasonable that some portion of the huge funds collected by Federal tax gatherers should be returned to the local areas for the development of amenities that are so essential in our communities. Members of the National Country Party have advocated this action for many years. Only in the past five years has positive financial help been forthcoming. Indeed, under the Fraser-Anthony Government this financial assistance has been greatly increased. 
The next Budget will provide additional funds by increasing the share of personal income to 2 per cent as I previously mentioned. Action by this Government will go a long way in overcoming the huge burden placed on ratepayers. Ratepayers are being assisted with these untied funds. The shire councils and municipal councils receive the funds from Federal sources but as they untied the councils can use the funds for whatever purpose the councils determine. This system has been a great boon and it has developed into a very important part of the financial structure of local government. Of course, local government does receive other Federal funds such as road grants. This present Government has a responsibility for funding this third tier of government. Under the Constitution local government was solely the responsibility of the various States but, realising the financial plight of local government, the Federal Government has come to its rescue. 
As one who has served on a local government council for 35 years I have seen the tremendous changes that have taken place in this field, as I mentioned a while ago, from the horse and buggy days to the present mechanised era. Possibly there may be areas in which this third tier of government is endeavouring to do too much. I think we must admit that. However, as community demands for increased facilities and modern amenities are the order of the day local government is faced with increased financial commitments. It is the real leader in providing opportunities for the decentralisation of industry and commerce. It is pleasing to observe that both State and Federal governments are making loan funds available to enterprising people who want to establish decentralised industry in our country areas. Loan funds are made available to approved applicants. In New South Wales the Wran Government which succeeded the previous Liberal-Country Party Government makes available funds for decentralisation. Of the total costs of decentralisation, 60 per cent is put up by the State Government, 30 per cent by the company or person proposing the operation and 10 per cent by the local government authority. A considerable amount of decentralisation funds has been made available to various towns and cities on this basis. This system has been in operation now for quite some years. Many councils have taken advantage of the funds and are making progress in the decentralisation field throughout our shires and our municipalities. 
This legislation shows that the present Federal Government has full recognition of the problems which face local government. Over the past 20 years, loan funds have been made readily available to local government. But is must be realised that these loan funds have to be repaid when the loans expire. Of course interest also has to be paid and this means that an added burden is placed upon the ratepayers. Loan funds have not been the problem facing local government. There have always been plenty of loan funds available to local government. However, the availability of taxation revenue for this third tier has been lacking until the last few years when Federal governments realised that assistance is essential for local government to survive and to give relief to ratepayers, who, of course, make the major funds available for their local operations. As mentioned before, the grants that are being made available under this legislation are untied. They will be made to councils in the years ahead. This legislation has, of course, the full support of members on this side of the House. 
However, one must be concerned at the great amount of coal traffic at present in the Newcastle-Singleton-Cessnock area. The Hunter Valley mines are providing great amounts of export coal which are shipped from the port of Newcastle. The coal is carted to that port mainly by road transport. Certainly the New South Wales Department of Transport does carry a lot of that coal on its railways, but in the main, it is carted by road transport. This coal traffic will place a very heavy burden on the provincial cities of Maitland and Cessnock as well as on the shires of Singleton and Muswellbrook. Hundreds of coal trucks are travelling on that highway every day and it is only reasonable to assume that there will be a great increase in the wear and tear of such roads. Local government in that area must get assistance to help maintain this essential traffic which is bringing in export income to our nation. The shire councils and the provincial cities in that area are very concerned at what is taking place. They are happy to see the coal being exported and to see the activity and the employment that is taking place in the Paterson electorate, but they know that in a very short space of time great funds will be required to carry out maintenance on these roads. 
The honourable member for Reid said that it was essential that the three tiers of government should co-operate with each other. I think that all members of this House would agree on that. I have no doubt that when the honourable member for Reid was the Minister with responsibility in this field, he did his best to provide funds for local government in New South Wales and, as mentioned by him in his speech, for the Hunter Valley. Just the same, the grants that are made available under this tax sharing Bill provide increased funds of up to 24 per cent throughout this area. This Government has certainly provided increased funds and the honourable member for Reid must be aware of this. The facts and the figures are there for him to see. There has been no cut whatsoever to local government funds to New South Wales from this Federal source. Of course, as a government, we have provided additional funds to the State Government of New South Wales to allow it to bear its share of responsibility to local government and to roads in the local government area. This Bill has my full support. 
-Some disconcerting news has been received in Australia this week with regard to oil pricing by some of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Indeed, the Saudi Arabian Oil Minister, Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani has said that the world oil market is getting out of control; consuming nations must do something about it before it is too late. Of course, much of what he said applies to Australia. He said that the consuming nations are losing control, due to the high consumption of petroleum products. This week Libya and Iran increased their prices for petroleum by $2.50 per barrel. Kuwait and Mexico have also announced increases for their petroleum products. In the past four months the price of oil has risen by 38 per cent. 
Australia must do all it can by exploration to find more petroleum. At present in Australia, we have 18 rigs drilling for oil, nine off-shore and nine on shore. Since this Government came to office there has been an improvement in the drilling situation. When this Government took office in 1976, 11 drilling wells were completed. In 1977, 20 drilling wells were completed. In 1978, 36 drilling well were completed. To date this year, 32 drilling wells have been completed. When we compare these figures with figures for the Labor years 1973 to 1975 we find that 12 wells were completed in 1973, eight in 1974 and four in 1 975. The number was going down all the time. That was the situation which faced this Government when it took office from the Labor Government. But we have to do all we can to speed up drilling in this country. We have to make it possible for expertise, and capital to help us find more petroleum products. 
There have been many shortages of petroleum on the eastern seaboard. This is giving industry and the farming community great concern, particularly in the States of New South Wales and Queensland. If there is not a strike or go-slow activity at Australian Oil Refining Pty Ltd at Kurnell in New South Wales- which supplies 60 per cent of the petroleum needs of that State- there are problems in Bass Strait with go-slow activities on the oil drilling rigs and in the pumping of petrol on shore. This is terribly important because tankers which are filled in Bass Strait take petroleum to other parts of Australia. When there is a go-slow at Bass Strait the eastern seaboard suffers. Our supply position is such that increased shipments of petroleum from overseas have to be arranged to fill our needs. When this happens a great amount of funding is sent overseas to pay for the imports. In July this year there was a record import of petroleum products into Australia to the order of $155,744,000. If Australia is still plagued by go-slow tactics in the producing industry, this state of affairs will prevail. Although Australia could produce 70 per cent of its petroleum needs, overseas purchases from Saudi Arabia could seriously cut into this local figure. 
Members of the Opposition are suggesting that farmers should not be stockpiling fuel. What rubbish! Farmers should be keeping their tanks full because there is a big harvest to be taken off in southern Queensland and in northern New South Wales. The advice that should be given to the farming community is to keep its tanks full all the time. That is not stockpiling; it is protecting farmers' livelihood and also providing valuable export income to this country, because wheat is one of our biggest export earners. 
On the other hand, we have to educate our primary producers to conserve fuel and to use electricity where possible. I refer to irrigation systems. Over the years many farmers have been using distillate in diesel engines to irrigate their crops including their wheat, their sorghum, their sunflower- in fact, any grain crop at all. We have to educate these farmers now to use electric power. We have ample supplies of coal in this country to provide electricity. When we look at costs we find that today electric power compares more than favourably with petroleum products for irrigation purposes. We have had fairly good rains in the wheat area and there will be an excellent wheat crop. We do not want to be held to ransom because there are inadequate supplies of fuel to take this crop off. We must see that fuel is provided at all times. 
The Minister for National Development and the Government must see that supplies of heating oil are kept up also. Rumours are current that in the next two years supplies of heating oil for domestic purposes are to be phased out. Many people in towns and cities in Australia have spent considerable sums of money to provide inside heating by the use of heating oil. The refineries refine this heating oil in the off-period when they are not refining motor spirit or distillate. I hope that the Minister will keep in touch with the oil companies to see that adequate supplies of heating oil are maintained until arrangements can be made by the users of heating oil to use other forms of heating, such as solar heating and electricity. We have had far too much industrial trouble at our refinery at Kurnell. Let us hope that the men employed in that refinery adopt a national outlook. Every time they cause industrial disruption it upsets the whole of our eastern States and creates chaos. Why do they not adopt a national attitude and say: 'We are going to continue to produce fuel '? When we go overseas and visit Asian countries we see people working like eager beavers. They are producing all sorts of things and there are no strikes. They have a national outlook; their work is for the country. Why can the people who are employed in our refineries producing petroleum products not adopt this outlook, go to arbitration and let us have some productivity? 
It is good to know that the situation concerning aviation gasoline is on the mend and that we have adequate supplies in this country, it is understood, until the end of this year. This is a necessity for not only the farming community but also for our commuter services. Of course, the farming community requires avgas for aircraft to spray its crops and to spread its superphosphate so that we have increased agricultural production in this country.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I hope that some of my remarks will bear fruit because they are very important to Australia's economy. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it a fact that the Primary Industry Bank intends to appoint certain pastoral houses as agents for the Bank in New South Wales? If this is so, can the Minister say whether this procedure will affect interest rates and terms of loans? Will the Minister inform the House of the intended policy in regard to this proposal? 
I rise to support the Overseas Students Charge Bill and the Overseas Students Charge Collection Bill. The Overseas Students Charge Bill introduces an annual charge on overseas students in Australian universities and colleges of advanced education. Since 1973 a limit of 10,000 students has been placed on the number of overseas private students being allowed into Australia at any one time. These students could be granted temporary entry visas provided they satisfied a number of conditions. The chief condition to be satisfied was that the students' proposed course of study was not available in their home country. The students had to have a genuine intention to enter Australia on a temporary basis and to leave Australia on completion of their courses. Private overseas students could, however, acquire resident status if they were able to satisfy the normal criteria for migration. As has been mentioned by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  in recent years almost 75 per cent of students completing formal studies have applied successfully for resident status. 
This year the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  announced the new criteria for admission, which requires a high academic ability on behalf of the student and the future utility of the intended qualifications. The student is required to leave Australia on completion of studies and applications for return will not be received or considered within two years of his leaving Australia. The Government assumed full responsibility for universities and colleges of advanced education from 1 January 1974. Since that time students at these colleges have not paid tuition fees. The estimated cost of full time students' tuition fees at universities is $5,500 and for advanced colleges of education it is $4,000. The Government has determined the charges to be levied under this Bill after taking into consideration costs and fees charged by other countries. 
The Bill provides for an annual charge for overseas students enrolled at universities and colleges of advanced education and in courses leading to a degree or diploma. Clause 7 of the Bill exempts those overseas students enrolled in courses for a year before 1 January 1980. The amount of the charge is to be fixed by regulation but is not to exceed $2,500. The charges are to be as follows: A master's or Ph. Degree, $2,500; medical, veterinary science and dentistry courses, $2,000; and other award courses $ 1 , 500. I have been requested to cease speaking at 5.55 p.m. and as that is the time I now do so. I support the measure along with my colleagues. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that millions of gallons of distillate fuel are being used by farmers in diesel engines for irrigation purposes. 
With the huge coal deposits and generation of electricity at our thermal stations, would it be possible for these irrigation plants to be changed to electrical power. 
If so, and in order to save valuable fuel, will the Government investigate the situation with a view to a drive in this field and possibly provide financial assistance for such a changeover to take place. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the Australian Dairy Farmers Federation has written to members of Parliament seeking to have  Mr A.  A. S. Webster reappointed as  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Corporation? Can the Minister indicate what action is being taken by the Government on this matter? 
-Support is given to the seven wheat Bills which are being taken together in this cognate debate. The wheat industry is one of Australia's biggest industries, and one of its largest export earners. Our large markets include China, Japan, Indonesia, Egypt and Russia, and there are many other smaller markets. Therefore, it is important that we update our legislation in relation to this wonderful industry. The Wheat Marketing Bill 1979 provides for the new marketing and pricing arrangements to apply to the wheat industry for five seasons, commencing on 1 October this year. It succeeds the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act and associated legislation. The Bill provides for the Australian Wheat Board to continue as the sole authority for the export marketing of wheat, flour and certain wheaten products and for the domestic marketing of our wheat. Provision is made for wheat growers to have the option of delivering wheat from farms direct to buyers within the authority of the Board. This is a new move and it will be welcomed by wheat growers throughout Australia. The Wheat Board will issue permits to enable growers to deliver their wheat to other than a licensed receiver of the Board. 
The Commonwealth will guarantee growers a minimum price on their wheat based on 95 per cent of the average of the net pool return for the subject year and the two preceding years converted to a net basis. Movements in the guaranteed minimum price from one season to the next are to be subject to a limit of 1 5 per cent. The guaranteed minimum price will be paid by the Wheat Board to farmers on delivery of their wheat. The home consumption price for wheat has been set at $127.78 per tonne for the first year of the new arrangements and the price for the succeeding four years is to be determined according to the formula contained in the schedule to the Bill. The formula takes into account movements in prices paid by farmers and export prices, and over a period it will provide for a margin above export parity subject to movements in the price, being limited to 20 per cent from year to year. The home consumption prices for industrial and stock feed wheats are to be set from time to time by the Board in the light of its commercial judgments. Stock feed wheats form a valuable part of the wheat trade in this country and help the farming community in the way of returns. Complementary State legislation is necessary, and the States of Australia are proceeding to enact such legislation complementary to the Bills that the House is debating tonight. 
New South Wales farmers have begun harvesting the second largest crop on record. It is anticipated that it will be worth almost $950m on world markets. The New South Wales Department of Agriculture has forecast a 6.33 million tonne crop, and Australian standard white wheat is quoted at $150 a tonne on the international wheat market. My electorate of Paterson takes in one of the biggest wheat growing areas in this country, namely, the Liverpool Plains area. Gunnedah is one of the biggest wheat receiving centres in Australia. I am sad to say that in the past 10 days very severe storm damage has occurred in the north-west of New South Wales and possibly there will be quite a quantity of offgrade wheat. It was estimated that there would be 700,000 tonnes of premium wheat this year but, with the rain and hail damage that has taken place, that figure could be down to as low as 200,000 tonnes. This represents a great loss to the farming community. Many silos in that area have been open for the intake of wheat. The Sydney and Newcastle terminals are now working overtime and a total of 338,000 tonnes of wheat were shipped from Sydney and Newcastle in October. This figure represents one of the best totals for many years. 
My colleague the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  mentioned the first payment on this season's wheat crop. Of course, it is very important to the farmers to get a big first payment because it gives them a cash flow. The honourable member mentioned a figure of $100 per tonne. My information is that it could be anything from $95 to $100 per tonne. Although this appears to be an excellent figure, it must be remembered that wheat farmers have very high costs these days. Fuel has been mentioned. Honourable members know that there have been rises in the cost of fuel. This is one of the largest expenses that wheat farmers have to put up with. Freight is another cost. In my area, it is something in the order of $ 1 5 per tonnne. There is also the cost of spare parts, insurance and depreciation on the huge machinery which is necessary to harvest these crops. Farmers require cash to carry on, so it is important that the first payment be as high as possible. It is felt that if the first payment is of the order of the figures mentioned, farmers throughout Australia will be very happy indeed. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it is a pleasure to take part in this debate. I do not want to hold up the proceedings of the House because most of the features of this legislation have been covered by previous speakers. Full support is given to these Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My question is directed to the Minister for National Development and concerns aviation gasolene. Is it a fact that New Guinea is short of aviation gasolene and that plane owners and operators have been warned to be careful when planning flights? Can the Minister say whether this will affect Australia? Will he advise the present supply position of aviation gasolene in this country? What does the future hold as to sufficient supplies of this important fuel? 
-As a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts it is a pleasure to support this legislation to amend the Public Accounts Committee Act 1951. Members of the Public Accounts Committee who have already spoken in the debate have covered this legislation very thoroughly indeed. The committee is possibly the most active one in this Parliament, meeting more frequently than any other committee. We have at least two meetings a week and sometimes as many as three. Indeed, when the door of a member of the Public Accounts Committee opens, frequently it is a staff member of the Committee with some information for the next meeting. Our  Chairman,  the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  is an extremely active and capable leader. All honourable members who have spoken tonight in this debate are members of the Public Accounts Committee. The Committee meets in a most harmonious manner and transacts a lot of very important business. Indeed, it could be a lesson to the Parliament and to other parliamentary committees. 
The purpose of the legislation is to broaden the power of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. It consists of seven members of the House of Representatives and three members of the Senate. It was established under the Public Accounts Committee Act 1951. It is astounding that this is the first amendment to that Act, which has lasted for a very long time. The Committee is charged with examining the accounts of receipts and expenditure of the Commonwealth and reporting on such matters to the Parliament. The Committee provides one of the methods by which Parliament is able to scrutinise the Executive. This is indeed a very important part of the Committee's work. The Bill provides for the affairs of all Commonwealth statutory and other bodies, including companies in which the Commonwealth has a controlling interest, to be subject to the Committee's scrutiny with some exceptions. These exceptions are intergovernmental bodies which require the agreement of all governments concerned for the Committee scrutiny and the financial affairs of the Northern Territory and the external Territories. Various sections of the Act concern the operations of the Committee, and the changes to the Act that we are debating tonight can be summarised in this way. They remove doubt about where and when the Committee can sit. They remove any doubt as to the powers of the vice-chairman of the Committee in the absence of the  chairman,  and that is a very important part of the Bill. The legislation provides that four members shall constitute a quorum, and it removes the limit on the number of sectional committees. It provides for the extension of the duties of the Committee in order to strengthen its role. 
In the Minister's second reading speech, he informed the House that the amendments were part of a continuous process to broaden parliamentary scrutiny of public expenditure and follow on from the establishment in April 1 976 of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. At present, the Committee's duties are limited, in its examination of certain statutory authorities and government bodies, to information contained in the AuditorGeneral's annual report. Clause 5 of the Bill amends section 8 to enable the Committee to examine the financial affairs of all statutory and other government bodies, including the financial statements transmitted by those bodies to the Auditor-General. The Committee will also be able to examine any special reports made to the Parliament by the Auditor-General, and that is an important provision. It will enable the Committee to study any efficiency audits carried out by the Auditor-General and reported to the Parliament. As mentioned previously, section 8 of the Act is being amended to exclude examination of the financial affairs of the Northern Territory and of the administration of the external territories. The Government has decided that, in view of the changed and changing relationships between the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory and the external territories, the financial affairs of their present and future administrations should not be subject to scrutiny by the Public Accounts Committee. Expenditure incurred by Commonwealth departments in the territories will continue to be subject to scrutiny by the Committee. 
The opportunity has been taken to introduce certain measures to improve the operations of the Public Accounts Committee. At times the Committee has experienced difficulties in forming a quorum because many of its members are also members of other parliamentary committees. It is therefore proposed to reduce the number required to form a quorum from six members to four members. There are many parliamentary committees operating under that procedure at the present time, and I believe that this is a wise move. It will assure the Public Accounts Committee of the quorum necessary to carry out its important work. This proposal is in line with the recommendations made in relation to certain other committees by the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. A further provision will remove the present restriction on the number of sectional committees- currently not more than two- which can exist at the one time. That change will enable more inquiries to be held simultaneously. 
As a member of the Public Accounts Committee, one element that has impressed me is the magnificent assistance given to the Committee by the staff allocated to it. The Committee secretary and his staff are absolutely magnificent and are wonderfully dedicated. As one who has had a fair amount of parliamentary experience, I can say that their dedication is unsurpassed. It is a great pleasure to support the Bill. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) With the shortage of liquid fuels and the plentiful and economic supply of coal in Australia, will the Government investigate the feasibility of bringing steam locomotives back to haul our heavy goods traffic; if so, would this result in huge savings of distillate fuel. 
How practical would this action be and what would be the cost. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 May 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements that country people particularly those in isolated areas are greatly concerned that the Australian Broadcasting Commission will not be televising Test Cricket. 
If so, will he give an assurance that there will be complete Test Cricket television broadcasts for all country people. 
