My question is  directed to the  Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Will the PostmasterGeneral give close attention to establishing a uniform telephone charge throughout Australia as a further incentive towards decentralisation, especially a&amp; communication costs arc second only to transport costs? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Does the Minister consider that there is a great and increasing need for added support in the very basic area of primary education? Further, does the Minister agree that more intense Federal aid could be directed into this field? 
 Mr President,  honourable senators, it is indeed an honour arid a privilege to have been elected as an Australian Country Party member to represent the State of New South Wales in this distinguished House. I believe that as a representative of New South Wales, and particularly as a representative of rural New South Wales - the towns, villages and provincial cities and the people who live on the farms and the grazing properties - 1 have an obligation, a challenge and a responsibility to represent them in this House to the utmost of my capacity. ! imagine that by representing that part of the State of New South Wales, I am in fact representing the Commonwealth scene in total. 
I should want to go no further without mentioning with great regret the circumstances which led to my election to this House. I refer of course to the death in April of the late  Senator the  Honourable Colin McKellar.  Senator McKellar  who served in this Parliament for 10 years - 5 of them as a Minister of the Crown - was well known to all honourable senators and, indeed, well known to many people in many places outside this Parliament for his sincerity, his capacity for work and his determination I am sure we could all learn something from  Senator McKellar's  ideals and standards. 
In introducing myself to the Senate perhaps I may be permitted briefly to draw attention to a few facets of my own political philosophy, not because they are my personal beliefs and not from an egotistical point of view but because 1 hope they are important to average Australians. I believe my philosophy may be a useful, important yardstick in assessing the value, purpose and effect of legislation whether it is Budget legislation or any other. If we are to survive as a free enterprise democracy the strength and stability of the family unit is fundamental to our very survival. I believe this is most important in maintaining permanence in a free enterprise democracy. The strength and security of the family unit is perhaps the basic reason why we have, to this stage of our political history, arrived by evolution and not by revolution. It is the duty of all governments to provide the maximum possible facilities for equality of opportunity. This Government is acting nobly in this area. In this Budget, direct Commonwealth expenditure on education represents an increase of some 25 per cent on the previous year, 50 per cent on 2 years ago and 500 per cent on the figure of some 10 years ago. It represents a real contribution towards providing the facilities for equality of opportunity. 
But although the Government has provided the facilities for equality of opportunity I suggest that man is not equal. Man is a strange and variable person and because of this we must retain in our society the profit motive within a properly constructed system of legal restraint. We must retain the profit motive within a system of law which has been developed by society over many years and which is imposed by that society upon the entire community. The profit motive probably goes closer than anything else to establishing the answer to the desires of human nature. It is human nature which tends to break down most of the theories, philosophies and solutions which we can so readily find to our problems. I suggest that the incentive of profit within a properly constructed system of legal restraint goes much further than anything else towards satisfying man's desire to be free, to have individual ownership and individual and personal incentive. 
I believe that the time is right with us mow when we should analyse in depth just what we mean by freedom. Freedom is freedom within the law, within that system of legal restraint developed by society and imposed by that society upon the entire community. I feel that today freedom is being challenged in many parts of the world and not the least in our own country because there is perhaps an over- enthusiasm for the pursuit of freedom to the degree that we tend to lose our sense of definition and perhaps we are accepting permissiveness and unbridled licence in the guise of freedom. This we must guard against if we are to survive as a free enterprise democracy. 
Another facet which occurs to me is that though I am fully aware of the tremendous importance of pure theory in many fields I am also aware that we should be well advised to temper pure theory, be it economic theory or any other, with the demands of social and political consideration lest we become the slaves of ivory tower concepts. May I reiterate these 5 points: The security and strength of the family unit; the provision of ever greater equality of opportunity; the maintenance of a profit motive within a properly constructed and developed and generous legal system of restraint; a careful attitude to our real understanding of freedom; and a suggestion that we should temper our concern for pure theory with social and political considerations lest we become slaves to ivory towered conceptions. I believe that these points are useful and pertinent yardsticks in our examination of the purpose and the effect of legislation, be it budgetary or otherwise. 
May 1 refer briefly to 2 more specific areas that concern me quite a deal, particularly as a representative of the State of New South Wales. Indeed I would imagine that these are matters of concern for the entire Australian continent. I am concerned that the Federal Government should enter still more vigorously in cooperation with the States upon an attempt at real decentralisation, at real population balance in this magnificent country, so that we may in fact stem the tide of population drift which threatens rural Australia today. The drift is from the towns and the villages and the farms to the metropolitan colossi of our coastline. The imbalance in the population structure of the Australian scene is largely historical in origin because in the late 18th century and in the 19th century there was a distinct movement towards industrial concentration in the Western world and this led naturally to urbanisation. It was at that time that the Australian continent as an entity of the Western world was born. Indeed, added to this tendency to urganisation, the fact of our geographical vastness, coupled with the transport and communication difficulties of those days, made our development a difficult thing beyond the confines of the few small urban centres of the land. But today those things have changed radically. This country has, particularly in the last 20 years, been shrinking, lt has been shrinking because of the amazing speed and efficiency of communication and transport and I suggest that technically the problems of decentralisation are rapidly disappearing. 
The recognition of the need for a balanced development in Australia goes back to the heady days of post war reconstruction in 1946 when the Federal Government of that time called a Premiers Conference to discuss regional development. As a result of that conference in my own State of New South Wales 19 regional advisory committees were established. They were to examine the potential of the various regions of that State with a view to establishing a properly conceived move towards decentralisation. Unfortunately, for nearly 20 years that concept, great and important though it was, remained merely a concept. In fact in the 8 years prior to 1965 a mere $3. 6m was spent in New South Wales on decentralisation. Since 1965 a Department of Decentralisation has been operating under the guidance of my colleague, the honourable John Fuller. In the past 5 years this Department has expended some $20m and, what is more important, it has built, maintained and enlarged industries in rural New South Wales to the number of 460 and it has, on a conservative estimate, retained in country areas not less than 30,000 people who would otherwise in all probability have joined in the drift to  the cities. This obviously shows that decentralisation can be achieved and that it is possible to stem the tide of population drift from rural areas. 
The reasons for decentralisation arc obvious. Surely rural Australia with its vast areas of smog free and pollution free land is the natural host to tertiary and secondary industries, just as it is the traditional home of the famous and important primary industries of our land. For defence, sociological and economic reasons I believe that decentralisation is an important issue. It is an issue in which this Federal Government could well aid, perhaps more effectively than it has up to this point of time, the State field, lt has done a lot in the area of communication from the point of view of equalised postage and equalised fuel costs. I suggest that it may well be time to look very carefully at the possibility of equalising the costs of telephone communications which rate so highly in the area of costs of established rural industries. Perhaps there could also be added special incentives to decentralise export industries, in the form of tax rebates or in the form of capital write-off. It could perhaps be conceived that a Si for $1 arrangement may be arrived at between the Commonwealth and the State governments for the development of particular projects at certain times and in certain places. But above all. there is a great and urgent need for close cooperation between the Commonwealth and State instrumentalities to ensure that balanced development on the Australian scene is not just some part of the English language, not just a phrase, but that it has real meaning. 
There is just one other field J would like to touch on briefly. It is a field which was entered upon by the 1969-70 Budget. For the first time an attack was made upon the incidence of probate duty in the Commonwealth. In that Budget there was a considerable change in the rate of duty on rural estates up to $240,000 and, what is more important, there was a lifting of the time-to-pay element. 1 believe that in this field the States must follow suit. But I also believe that we can go still further in this field because from a revenue point of view we are talking of something less than I per cent of the total Commonwealth revenue. I believe that the steepness of the scale of probate duty rates should be reduced dramatically, just as the steepness of the scale of income tax rates has been reduced to a degree in the present Budget. 
The incidence of probate duty represents a too heavy impost. Perhaps just a simple example of what I mean when I refer to inflated values bringing about hardship and dismemberment in an industry that can ill afford them will suffice. A 1,000-acre farm may have been worth $25,000, say, 20 years ago. Today it may be worth $100,000. That is a fourfold increase in value. There is certainly no fourfold increase in the real earning capacity of that farm. The significant point, however, is that in the probate liability field the increase is not fourfold but 16 or 17 times. That is why I say that it is high time the steepness of the scale of probate duty rates was drastically reduced with a view ultimately to getting rid of this form of taxation completely. I believe that it is a destructive tax, that it is a penalty on development and that it is even an immoral tax. I consider that it holds no place in our society and that it is well within the realm of this Government to act along the lines I have suggested. I believe that in the field of decentralisation there is a real and important challenge to us in the Federal sphere as there is to those in the State sphere. Also in the field of probate duty there is a challenge and a necessity for action in the Federal sphere as there is in the State area. 
Let me conclude by once again drawing to your attention,  Mr President,  and to that of honourable senators those 5 facets of which I suggest we should not lose sight. The first is that the fundamental strength and security of the family unit is basic to our society in a free enterprise democracy. The second is the provision of ever-increasing equality of opportunity. The third is the maintenance of the profit motive within a properly constructed and amended and generous legal system of restraint. The fourth is the constant examination of the significance of true freedom and the recognition that it is a disciplined state of affairs and is vastly different from anarchy which is just through a shallow barrier from freedom. In anarchy we shall know only the law of the jungle. I suggest that if we ever reach that stage - I trust that this will never be - we shall surely fall easy prey to the first disciplined force that opposes us. Finally, we must learn to temper pure theories, whether they be economic or otherwise, with social and political considerations.  Mr President  and honourable senators, I thank you for your kind attention. 
H address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the proposal to set up a wool marketing authority, I ask whether the authority will immediately on its formation enter aggressively into the field of reorientating promotion and aiding the establishment and development of wool processing and manufacturing industries in traditional textile producing countries such as India and Pakistan, and in countries to our even nearer north. Will the authority consider extending credit arrangements to enable these areas to enter competitively into the woollen and wool/ synthetic fabrics trade? Will it do so in order, amongst other things, that there should be an even wider competitive field on wool's horizons, and that new and exciting market potentials may be opened up? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the machinery which exists in New South Wales through the Rural Reconstruction Board, and the machinery which probably will be established in other States directed towards the economic restructuring of properties engaged in primary industry, will the Minister press with maximum power to have considerable moneys directed to this specific purpose from this day on? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In the operation of the envisaged wool marketing commission, would 'market intelligence' refer to, among other things, a close liaison in setting reserves for similar types of wool from day lo day throughout the wool exporting countries of the world, as there is little doubt that looming large among the causes of distress in relation to the New Zealand and South African reserve price schemes was the existence in Australia of a large and uncontrolled availability of wool for export? 
I rise to oppose the motion seeking a royal commission into the present conditions and future prospects of primary industry in Australia: I do so not because 1 do not believe that there is every need for an intensive investigation into the circumstances of these important industries. It seems to me that a royal commission at this point over such a vast area as the primary industries of Australia, which include not one industry but probably 10, 15 or 20 industries, would take such an incredibly long time that we would lose the real significance of an investigation, the real purpose of which would be to find some methods quickly to meet the desperate situations about which we have heard so much from the Australian Labor Party in recent days, the desperate situations which confront many of Australia's primary industries. Therefore, I support the amendment which was moved on the occasion when the debate was discontinued on 14th May. The amendment is quite long and I should imagine that most honourable senators are fully aware of it. It states: 
The Senate, being aware ot the economic position of primary producers and the problems associated therewith, knowing of the immediate need for analysis of industry problems to determine requirements of policy as affecting the different industries and believing that a Royal Commission would not meet such an immediate need, as it would involve too lengthy a period for investigation and report, is of the opinion that: 
the most appropriate way of investigating the present problems of the primary industries would be to establish industrysponsored committees of inquiry, backed by the available resources of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, to establish lines of action in the light of a world-wide situation; and 
these committees should be required to analyse the factors affecting the individual industries and report to the Government upon short-term policies to alleviate present difficulties and long-term policies for the guidance of both primary producers and the Government. 
This is the sort of solution that, in all probability, could bring a more immediate answer to the tremendous problems that confront our industries today. We could become bogged down with a royal commission. I would assume that the Government would be able to take little or no action during the tenure of the commission  to attack the problems which are so common and, indeed, which are causing such desperation in this area of Australia's economy. 
I have watched and listened to members of the Australian Labor Party with much interest in recent days and I have been quite worried about their almost tearful concern for the primary industries of this country. I must say that this sort of concern appears to me somewhat incongruous when 1 look a little deeper into the real attitude of the Opposition to primary industries in Australia. I wonder even whether the sudden concern could be of a somewhat fleeting character and perhaps could be prompted by concern with the forthcoming Senate election. This is just a view that has occurred to me. lt does appear to be quite an incongruous situation, because I remind myself of several features of the policy of the Australian Labor Party with regard to primary industry that I have read and heard in recent days and weeks. I must remind honourable senators that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in another place, when speaking in the Budget debate, devoted a mere 69 words to the mighty wool industry of Australia. 
They must have been of extreme wisdom. If he hoped to solve the problems of the Australian wool industry in 69 words they would have to be words of wisdom indeed. But then the Leader of the Opposition in the other place went on to say that it would be possible in rural industries to achieve much better results for the community and for individuals without an increase in our present financial outlay. This to me seems a strange conclusion, and it certainly is not the conclusion at which the Government has arrived since it has already increased the outlay involved in attempting to withhold the position of primary industry until it can be settled in stronger and more definite avenues. The Government has increased its outlay in this current year by some 55 per cent. This does seem a considerable change from its attitude in the past to which I referred. I am also reminded that not long ago in this very chamber - perhaps 3 weeks ago - a 
Labor senator was talking about the Australian farmers. I believe our farmers happen to be among the most efficient in the world, and many other people in many places believe they are the most efficient farmers in the world. But this honourable senator referred to them as a 'dissentient and scruffy minority'. I cannot seem to tie up these sentiments. 
 A Labor senator. It is in Hansard. 

 - Senator Poke used those words when he asked this question: 
What action does the Government intend to prevent this dissentient and scruffy minority disrupting proper processes of law and order? 
These are  Senator Poke's  words, andI do not find them congruous with the suggestion that the Australian Labor Party now shares such deep and tearful concern for this so-called scruffy minority. Only 2 or 3 days ago  Senator O'Byrne.  after describing the terrors and the problems of this industry, went on to say that the Opposition did not have to put up the solutions to those problems. 
Maybe honourable senators opposite do not have to put up the solutions and maybe indeed they cannot solve the problems; I am not sure which. I suggest that this is a somewhat irresponsible and mischievous attitude. Surely it is something of a sham that members of the Labor Party, owing such a tremendous allegiance to metropolitan Australia, should suddenly find such great concern for the primary producers of this country. 
Yesterday  Senator Kennelly  in the debate on this matter gave a description of the diesel fuel tax. I thought his description was superb, as were his statements and his capacity for drama. But the fact is that he referred to a diesel fuel tax that does not apply to rural tractors and machinery.  Senator Kennelly  attacked the Government on this point, and in particular attacked the Australian Country Party. But the tax does not apply to rural machinery. I have noticed a constant attack on the Government, particularly on those of us in this corner of the chamber who belong to the Country Party. I find the attention almost complimentary. It seems to me that we must indeed represent- 
The honourable senator may be right. I do not know exactly how Dad and Dave behaved. The fact that honourable senators opposite direct such a bitter attack to the Country Party is surely a compliment to those of us who belong to it. Surely honourable senators opposite recognise that we have a tremendous concern for the people of rural Australia - the farmers and the people who live in the towns, villages and provincial cities. This is our business. From the attack on us by honourable senators opposite it can be assumed that we do our business reasonably well. 
I have said that a genuine investigation into the problems of the primary industries is certainly worthwhile. However, I believe that considerable action is already in train. Action is being taken and has been taken to resolve many problems of (he primary industries in many different areas. The. primary industries are very diverse and complex, and far beyond the capacity of any form of investigation suddenly to produce a series of real answers. The problems of primary industries are discussed here day after day, and in many other places. It is necessary to find solutions that are not only politically attractive but are also capable of being implemented. I think honourable senators will agree with me that that is the crucial point. An apparent solution is completely useless if it cannot in fact be implemented. 
I suggest that in the present sitution there is constant organisation of. and investigation into, the problems of the rural industries. Much greater unanimity has been achieved amongst primary producers' organisations than has been seen before. We must at least in part be lead by the solutions that these great and diverse industries find themselves. We do not believe that solutions must be imposed from above. I am aware of the philosophy behind that attitude. I recall that recently  Mr Hawke,  in answering a question, said that he believed that in time of war the 
Government should take over and that that is how it should always be. That is not our view of controlling and solving the massive troubles of rural Australia. 
We have in constant operation the Bureau of Agricultural Economics - a most effective and efficient body. We have the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, which is world renowned for its capacity in research in many fields. Tn the areas of rural production it is constantly chasing the problems and from day to day solving many of them. The Country Party had its own committee which inquired at length, over a number of months, into the problems of rural Australia. The committee came down with 34 recommendations. A number of them have been implemented already and a number of the others are in the process of being implemented. So, here is an area of investigation. The Department of Primary Industry is referring constantly lo the various areas of research within the industry organisations, the CSIRO, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and so on. In fact, there is a continuing and efficient source of investigation of the problems and, more importantly, a consistent search for answers to those problems. 
I do not intend to spend a great deal of time on (he problems themselves.  I  am sure that all of us in this chamber - certainly we members of the Country Party - understand them quite clearly. We have different views as to their causes. Some of them are inherent in the very nature of primary industry in Australia. We are a strange country in that we are a developed economic society, yet we have something of the nature of an undeveloped country's economy because we are always searching for markets for the export of raw materials. So. these problems of primary industry, to a large degree, are inherent in the very nature of this land and this land's economy. 
That also applies overseas. We are a Western country, highly developed yet constantly searching for overseas markets. This search for overseas markets is at least as important - perhaps it is more important - to the whole Australian scene as it is to the Australian countryside. Slowly, the entire Australian population is realising that basic to our survival not only as an industry but as a country is our capacity to keep overseas credit, and that our capacity to find something to effectively take the place of primary industry in this field is probably nil. 
Let me look for just one moment at the great Australian wool industry. It is at a tragically low level at the moment. The price level today is the lowest for about 23 years. It is at this level for many reasons. I do not believe that they are Government contrived reasons. There is a tremendous slump in world prices of textile fibres, particularly wool, but of synthetics too. There is a general tragic world-wide slump in the prices of raw fibres. This is basic to the problem of the Australian wool industry but equally basic is the fact that its cost structure is dictated by an affluent and protected society. I am not arguing against an affluent and protected society but I am pointing out the great difficulty that this industry faces, the tremendous difficulty of finding solutions to a problem iri a structure over which we have little or no control and a price over which, because we are exporting to world markets, again we have little or no control. 
I suggest,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that the survival of Australia's rural industries and the final solution to our problems in this field basically lie more with solving the problem of the wool industry than that of any other single industry. I say this because we produce the most wool and the best wool in the world. In wool we are significant. In this field we have a comparative significance far in excess of any significance we may have in any other field of primary production. Solving the problems of the wool industry would go a long way towards balancing the entire rural scene in the primary producing areas of Australia. 
That is right. I am fully aware of the problems of this industry and I am fully aware of the necessity to find a solution because I believe it is basic to the ultimate solution of providing balance in the Australian rural scene. Until we succeed in solving our wool problems the problems of diversification are indeed troublesome, for by diverting to other areas, of primary pro duction surely we will create the very problems in those industries that exist already in the wool industry and we may shortly be faced, as we are in the wheat industry, with quotas in many other areas due to the fact that we cannot control prices when we start to export. 
No, it is not all. I want to draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that the formation of the Wool Industry Commission has been developing over an intensive period of a few months. Activity has reached the stage where legislation shortly will be introduced into this Parliament. This will bring about the most searching and far reaching changes that this industry has yet known. 
We hope that these things will be beneficial and the beauty of this is that for the first time the industries themselves have got right behind this sort of scheme. There is a unanimity and a determination to change the entire process of marketing and selling wool. This has happened for many reasons. One of them is the unanimity that exists for the first time. The Government has accepted the instructions and solutions put to it and has developed a system which will introduce this radical new approach to marketing. It is also possible, in fairness, we must admit, for the first time because the wool industry, through research, can now hope to present a scientific analysis of its product. The day is very close when we can offer wool for sale by accurate scientific description. 
Before 1 finish dealing with the problems of rural industries. I think I should very briefly refer to the reasons for the problems that face these industries. There has been a world slump in textile prices. This is basic to the entire situation. There has been over-production or mal-distribution of wheat. An attack has been made on the wheat situation. The Government and the industry are in agreement. They have shaped up to the problems in a practical sense. They are reaching some kind of solidarity and some kind of basic strength on which they can operate. The tariff walls which surround the Western European countries make the problems of an exporting country such as Australia, which exports a large quantity of raw materials, extremely difficult. The ravages of drought have played a fantastically important and terrible part in bringing to a head the problems that beset our rural industries today. The countries which only 2 years ago imported grains have become exporters. These are problems that no government and no country can easily or accurately foresee. But these problems that are basic to the situation of our rural industries today. 
We lack the capacity of the densely populated countries of the Western and the Western-type world to subsidise our primary producers to the extent that primary producers are subsidised in those countries. We do not have the internal market that can stand this kind of economic approach. This is another basic problem to our rural industries. It is a problem which, I suggest, we must recognise and solve. 1 believe that we can solve it. We can solve it only if we use as our yardstick the capacity to implement the solutions that we put forward. I believe that we should not be hysterical about this situation. I believe that government action has been and is being taken in a realistic sense with a view to satisfying the dictates of the industries and organisations. Reconstruction is a real concern of this Government and is a long term solution to many of the problems of our rural industries. In the dairy industry $25m will be spent, by the time the current 5-year period has expired, on the reconstruction of low income dairy farms. 
I do not believe that the Party to which 1 belong or the Government agrees with that statement. I do not believe that it is even a sensible statement. A big farm is not necessarily economic. A small farm is not necessarily uneconomic. So I do not have any regard for that kind of statement. Debts, reconstruction and drought are problems. The Government and the industry have been faced with tremendous problems as a result of a drought not in one year but in about 3 of the last 6 or 7 years - in 2 of the last 5 years. The Government has taken considerable action to relieve some of the tragedy of droughts. It is beyond any Government to solve these sort of tragedies quickly. The Government has spent more than $4m in New South Wales, $2m in Queensland and $Hm in South Australia. It has entered into the field of drought relief by grants to Queensland amounting to Slim this year, $14m last year and since 1965-66 over $30m has been spent on drought relief in that State. On the Commonwealth scene since 1965 over $&gt;30m has been spent in this area alone. It is not fair to say that the problems are not recognised and, equally, it is not fair to say that nothing is being done. 
This is the best thing to do. If one is suffering from any complaint which one cannot cure then, indeed, one tries to patch it up while looking for a cure. This is a perfectly sensible thing to do. 
I did not say that it could not be cured. Relief measures exist and have been implemented in primary industry in the form of loans to restockers, transport rebates on stock and fodder - particularly the supplies to drought areas - and grants for unemployment relief. Again this is only a temporary measure. It is a patch, I agree. But I suggest that it is a very necessary patch. Special revenue for drought grants and a rebate of 50 per cent in shire rates has been announced for drought-affected producers in need of assistance where they have had 2 years of drought in 5. A consultative committee on drought has been drawn up. Drought bonds have been instigated. Indeed Si. 7m has been invested in drought bonds and $925,000 has been redeemed for the purchase of fodder in the fight against drought and its consequences. The conservation of fodder which is a defence against any drought has been encouraged by tax concessions and freight subsidies. Tax concessions allow the establishment of sheds, storage spaces, silos and the like for the holding of supplies which are an essential defence if we are to meet a drought when and where it occurs in this country. 
A wool marketing corporation is to be established at the request of the industry and in consultation with the Government. Some $34m have been invested by the Government. The Budget provided $30m for wool growers, mostly in Queensland and northern New South Wales, as a partial aid towards the ravages of drought. The proposed Australian Wool Commission is in the process of being established. For the first payment for wheat $407m has been made available. Surely these are real efforts to meet the problems of primary industries in this country. In this year the dairying industry is receiving some $46m. Arrangements have been made whereby the price of skim milk powder has been raised from $150 to $181 a ton. Funds are constantly available for research in the dairying industry as in other primary industries. Interest rates, probate, water and development are all areas in which this Government has taken and is taking an active part in recognising and solving some of the basic problems of primary producers in Australia. Indeed it is solving problems which go far beyond the farms and the properties of rural Australia. They are the problems that affect the provincial cities, the country towns, the villages and ultimately the entire Australian scene. 
It is probably not so well known that because of the bounty that is paid this country has the cheapest superphosphate in the world. Superphosphate at the works is almost half the price of the cheapest superphosphate in overseas countries. The chemicals commonly used in agriculture in Australia have been kept at a price which, in 60 cases out of 74, is lower than it was 10 years ago. Those are some of the things that have been done by the institutions which have been set up by this Government because of its concern for primary industry. We are faced with many problems of which we all are aware we have the determination, the capacity and the knowledge to meet the challenge that they present. I believe that they are being met now. 
I oppose the proposition for a royal commission simply because I feel that an investigation of that kind in such a vast atea would be too slow and too expensive to meet the tremendous demands of today. I have pleasure in supporting the amend ment to the proposition before us relating to primary industry in Australia. 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of reported problems of ore quality making Japanese steel mills cautious about committing themselves to new iron ore projects in the Pilbara region, would the Minister agree that this may be a timely warning for Australia - industry and government alike - to continue, with an even greater sense of urgency, marketing, promotional and productivity reforms across the complete canvas of our primary industries, particularly wool? Does it not emphasise once again that these industries in which we are low cost and high quality producers by world standards must be regarded as fundamental to our overseas credit earning capacity in the foreseeable future? Would it not be advisable to investigate promptly Indonesian and Indian interests in establishing processing and manufacturing industries in their lands, using Australian raw materials, skills and foreign aid finance? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Government is constantly reviewing, within its power, marketing and promotional activities. This is a continuing process. Every effort is being made to develop markets for Australian raw materials, not only in Asian countries but also in Europe, South America and Africa. I refer, for example, to the establishment of milk plants in South East Asia, Panama and Zambia. In the minerals field, increasing attention is being given to Europe as well as to other areas. In this respect I refer to the sale of alumina to Europe, North America, the Middle East and South Africa. 
I present from  419  citizens of the Commonwealth the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in "Commentaries on the Australian Constitution,' Page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films. literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Pettit ion received and read. 
 I rise with pleasure to support strongly the Australian Wool Commission Bill. I believe it marks the most important milestone that the wool industry in Australia has yet passed. This great industry has been in existence for almost 200 years and this step represents perhaps the most dramatic and most momentous change in its marketing procedures. I have supported this type of approach to wool marketing for many years because I believe it is a purposeful, modern and logical attack on the marketing problems of the Australian wool industry. It seems to me to be a shame that we have had to linger on until 1970 to bring about these dramatic and important changes but I must say also - I am sure you will agree with me,  Mr Acting Deputy President  - that the powers of inertia are strong. There is an inherent suspicion of change, perhaps even an abhorrence of Government control, in the tradition of independence that has been built up in the 150 to 200 years of existence of the Australian wool industry. However, these problems have been overcome in the main and we can only regret that we have had to wait until this point of time when there is a somewhat disastrous slide in wool prices before the industry has consolidated itself to such a degree that it has demanded and is getting, by prompt Government action, u radical change in the wool marketing situation. 
If unchecked this slide in prices could do tremendous damage to the entire Australian economy. Indeed, it would be a severe blow to Australia's overseas credit situation. It would create an even greater imbalance in the rural economy of this country. This slide is in the process of being checked by the unification of the industrial organisations in demanding what was so obviously needed - a major change in the marketing approach; a change which will involve such things as the concept and implementation of a flexible reserve price in the wool market, control of the flow of wool types onto the market, and the constant usage and expression of scientific measurement in the marketing area of the industry. Perhaps it would be pertinent if 1 tried to confine myself to some remarks about the more significant features of this Commission which is the subject of the Bill which we have before us. Firstly. I think it is significant to consider the nature of the Commission itself. The Commission will have grower representation, but it will not be grower controlled. It will be a Commission which will have basically a wide spread of industrial, commercial, economic and promotional brains as its main functioning units. I think it is pertinent to remember that this is the sort of Commission which the great organisations of the wool industry had in mind when they urged this dramatic change in our marketing procedures. The Commission will have widespread statutory powers over the handling and sale of wool. 
Again I feel that I should point out, as I have done once or twice before in this chamber, the basic nature of the wool industry to the Australian scene. Poverty in the wool industry must bring an incredible number of problems of price, marketing, quota restrictions and the like to all those industries which we are urging  to  diversify and which over the years must diversify. The wool industry is basic and is more significant  to  the Australian rural economic scene than any other industry that we have or are likely  to  have in this  Country.  Wool alone among our products is significant insofar as we produce in this land the most and the best wool in the world. As a  final  word on this Commission, I ask honourable senators to remember that its structure is extremely close to what was suggested by  the  industry itself, as well as by the Government and  Sir John  Crawford, and might well serve the industry best. 
The second interesting feature of this commission is its adoption of a plan incorporating the concept  of  a flexible reserve price. A flexible reserve price is an important and dramatic change in the Australian wool marketing scene. This must give teeth in the market place to the Commission, and for the first time in the history of this industry, a plug will be placed at the  bottom  of the auction. This can only tend to give confidence in the buying and user trade. It must rule out to a large degree the snowballing psychological effect on an industry of falling prices, an effect which is felt just as severely by the using side of the industry as by the producing and selling sides. This reserve price will operate on a day to day basis and even at intervals of less time than that. It will operate on the evidence of the market around it and according to the spirit of the buying trade at any particular time. It will operate according to the widespread information that must come to it from this form  of  market intelligence. 
Thirdly, the Commission will have the power to regulate the flow of wool on to the market in a sensible way. This is an important and very specific power. To control or direct the flow of wool means simply that at any time in the buying year there will be available to users of wool in the world adequate quantities of the types that may be in demand and there will not be situations in which the market will find itself overloaded with a type of wool which is out of demand - probably temporarily - or has been over-supplied due to seasonal conditions and things of that nature. 
I refer next to the Commission's power of purchase and disposal. These are extraordinarily important concepts. The fact that the Commission may purchase and will purchase wool will put a bottom into the wool market, will give to the market some sort of security which, it must be agreed, will tend to iron out the severe troughs that the graph of wool prices over the years, particularly in the last few months, has tended to show. It will make sure that virtually no wool will be sacrificed on the market because of a temporary situation of demand or supply or both. Equally important as the power to purchase is the power of disposal. The Commission will have unrestricted power to dispose in every field - through the auction room or by direct negotiation or, should it deem it necessary, by processing and even manufacturing woollen cloth, either in our own country or perhaps in the factories of our neighbours to the north. We must keep open our options to use other more modern and sophisticated methods of marketing. I suggest that the Commission's broad sweep of power must involve it in a capacity and,  1  should imagine, a will to revitalise and change the nature and direction of wool promotion. This,  1  believe, is of tremendous significance. There must be a promotion not only of the pure woollen textile with its superior characteristics, but also there must be a tendency to promote a wool and synthetic blend. I believe that this broad sweep of power will involve the Commission in just this sort of activity in the field of promotion. 
This Commission has been criticised on the ground that it has not an acquisition force as such, but I suggest that it is perhaps a strength of the concept of the 
Commission that it does retain in the selling world the element of free enterprise. It will retain the possibility of operation by private buyers, and it naturally will have room for organisations, projected and otherwise, such as the economic wool producers. This must surely ensure that there will be competition of sale within the industry. But it will be a competition which is different in that it will be operating from a specific base and under the close surveillance of the Commission itself. Selling agencies in a situation such as this must surely be on their mettle to obtain the best possible price for the raw woollen fibre, because they know only too well that the scientific developments of our time must bring closer the possibility of disposing of wool by other and more direct methods. t believe that already there has been apparent throughout the wool industry a great deal of appreciation of the manner in which and the speed with which the Government has acted, and particularly of the way in which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has co-opted all the forces possible to bring about in the smallest possible time this solution to their problems. It is apparent that at long last the producer organisations throughout the Commonwealth have come to a solid decision in regard to the needs of marketing in their industry. They having done this, the Government has acted with very great and specific speed. Of course, it is a matter for regret, as I said before, that the price in the wool industry had fallen so low so suddenly before this sort of unity in the organisations was in fact achieved, because their demands, when they became evident and strong, were met with great and prompt attention. 
May 1 once again draw attention to these dominant features of this legislation, the Australian Wool Commission Bill. I refer honourable senators again to the fact that the composition of this Commission is very much in line with that envisaged bv the industry itself. The Commission will have a widespread variety of abilities, a refreshing degree of independence and a spread of specialist type personnel. This is of extreme importance to the industry and, indeed, to the satisfaction of the producers within the industry. 1 refer again to the flexible reserve price concept. We believe it will rule out in large measure the severe pot holes within the price structure evident in the industry over a long period of time, and particularly in the very recent past. Because of its tendency to equalise and put a base in the market, I am sure that this reserve price system will foster a sense of confidence which has been so sadly lacking in wool marketing for a considerable time. I believe that the Commission's power over the direction of flow of the wool is among its most important features. For the first time there is a possibility of having a wide range of wool types available at any particular time. I have no doubt that the proposal will become a reality. 
I refer again to the significance of the power of the Commission in relation to the purchase and disposal of wool. Surely its power to purchase provides the teeth which enables it to put a floor in the auction price system. Surely, the power of disposal will enable it to use a vast range of possibilities in its attempts to ever improve the methods of marketing this raw material. I believe that the Commission will revitalise the promotional processes and look into areas of processing and manufacturing wool when dealing with the promotional aspect of the industry. The legislation provides for the retention of competition among sellers, and I consider that this will be of tremendous importance in the immediate future. This competition will be established from a specific base and will be under the continued surveillance of a commission which has a vast knowledge regarding the possibilities and the realities of the marketing situation in the wool industry. 
May I refer just briefly to the situation that arose some 5 years ago when 1, among many thousands of others, happened to be an advocate of a reserve price scheme. The situation in those days was distinctly different from that which faces us today. At that time we were negotiating from a point of strength. Wool prices were at a relatively high level, and our negotiating situation was vastly different from the situation that we face today. The organisations in those days were still in large measure divided on many issues but this. I am glad to say, is no longer the case. Even so, I believe that 5 years ago this type of system would have been introduced had it not been for some form of action in which quite predominant were the wool broking interests - or some of them - some sections of the Press, some of the almost immovable reactionaries among wool producers, and indeed some people in the buying field. Had these elements not been capable of sowing distrust and doubt and confusing issues, I believe a reserve price scheme may well have been introduced at thai point when the industry itself was in a strong situation. The confusing of issues, the sowing of doubt, the associating of a scheme with personalities were the mischievous methods which largely accounted for the failure to have the legislation passed 5 years ago. 
Having said that, 1 must now refer to what appears to me to be a somewhat unfortunate attitude of the Opposition in this chamber to this Bill. Whilst they support the Bill - no-one could fail to support a Bill that will make such a dramatic and vast change to the marketing situation in the wool industry - they have been lamenting this and lamenting that. I believe they have tended to establish a situation which is somewhat similar to that which was established by the reactionary elements .5 years ago. They appear to be sowing seeds of doubt as to whether this can happen or that can happen. Already there has been a suggestion that this Commission would be broker controlled. There is no evidence to suggest this. This is not the wish of the industry and it is extraordinarily unlikely that this sort of thing could happen. But to talk about it is to show distrust and discontent about the very situation that may be predominant in aiding the wool industry to get out of the trough into which it has fallen. This sort of reactionary approach spelt disaster to the scheme in 1965. Let us hope that it will find no place in the position as it applies today. 
The suggestion has been made also that the Commission may dispose of wool at any price rather than the best price offering. This, too, is a fairly pathetic sort of suggestion because, after all, the Commission is not there to make loss upon loss. In any case, it has to report to the Minister for Primary Industry and indeed to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  at least fortnightly. The suggestion that the Commission may sell wool at any old price is pathetic and unreal, lt can do nothing more than sow discontent and doubt at a time when discontent and doubt are 2 of the most dangerous things that can confront the Austraiian wool industry. Reference has been made to the suggestion that we should have had a hard reserve price at some very much higher level. 1 would like to see this  sort  of thing but we must look at the situation which confronts us. We have seen a tumbling in price and 1 believe it is our job now to stop that tumbling and realistically and strongly to build this industry up from a base which is regrettably low. I am sure the Commission will be the first instrument in making this buildup, this regeneration in the marketing of wool, and so in the industry a reality. 
It was said in another place that the Bill was nothing more than a scries of pious hopes. 1 say that those hopes are the hopes and the convictions of the Australian wool growing organisations. If they are pious hopes that is just matter of description. I believe they are much more than pious hopes. I believe they have a strong chance of becoming reality through the operation of this Australian Wool Commission Bill. This Bill has all the strength that we can expect at this time. It has adopted a radical change in method and in approach to the marketing problems of this great industry. I believe it has the strength and the backing of the great majority of wool growers in this industry. I believe, too, that this Bill can be destroyed only by an effort - if an effort should be made - to sow doubt, discontent and wonderment in an industry which above all requires confidence in itself forthwith and in the future. I strongly support the Bill. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That discrimination by the Labor Government against rural industries and the community dependent upon them is adversely affecting the economy and the welfare of the nation and many of its citizens. 

 - Mr President, I congratulate the mover and seconder of this amendment to the AddressinReply and congratulate honourable senators who today have made their maiden speeches. I know exactly how they may have felt because I am not all that far divorced from my own maiden speech. It is my province tonight to support basically the amendment moved to the Address-in-Reply. During the 3Vi years since I was last a member of this august chamber of this most important national Parliament I have had the opportunity as a member of the Australian community to observe at least 2 clear divisions. In the first part of that time we were aware of an economic situation in which basically we were confronted with falling prices on the world scene. In a very large area of Australia we were confronted with a climatic situation that involved us in at least a degree of recession. It was a recession in which we were only part of the total world scene, in the main, participating in that same sort of recession. By December 1972 we had reached, among other things, an inflation rate of some 4.2 per cent. Certainly, this situation caused considerable alarm, not only among ourselves but also throughout the entire Australian electorate. That was the position in the first period during which I was away from this chamber. 
In the second part of that period we saw, somewhat ironically, immensely improved prices on the world scene for virtually every product that this country exports. These prices and the result they have had on the Australian economy has been a saving grace in this second part of my time away from the Senate. But it is somewhat disturbing to find that in these circumstances, in spite of high export prices over a very wide field, we are seeing a considerable drain on our overseas credit. In the short term, this is serious; in the long term, it could well be disastrous. It is an area from which none of us can take any solace. It is an area in which it is incredibly important that we aim our attitudes and abilities towards solving the problem.  Mr President,  in this same period I have seen, as you will have seen, the search for oil and gas and the search for minerals becoming less intensive in the Australian scene than it should have been. It was that very search in these areas and the exciting production that resulted from it that enabled us in a time of oil crisis to be in a situation in which we produced approximately 72 per cent of our own fuel requirements. It is eminently important that we should maintain a situation in our search for oil and gas that will enable us to remain, to a marked measure, independent in the areas of oil and energy. 
In the 1 8 months or so that formed the second part of my period away from the Senate chamber I have seen, as we have all seen, inflation move not at 4.2 per cent but at a staggering 16 per cent, and it is still increasing. This is the sort of thing that must cause very great concern to the Australian community. Inflation is running now at a level which is extremely high, even by world standards. In 1 972 our rate of inflation attained a level which was undesirable but relatively low by world standards. One of the effects of all this is a loss of confidence by the people of this great society, country and economy. In this situation, very regretfully, a measure of unemployment must follow. This is becoming a real hazard in our time. I am speaking of right now. How can the position be otherwise? We are in a serious position in Australia today when, in a situation of industrial unrest, we find that more and more money is chasing fewer and fewer goods and services. Of course, that is the classic situation for an inflationary circumstance. That is the situation which makes us determined and in which we find it necessary to move the amendment which has been moved tonight. 
In spite of a period of high prices, there is a marked measure of uncertainty in the great wool industry. Again, despite extremely high prices being paid internationally at the moment, the same situation exists in the wheat industry. In the case of the wheat industry, we have been saved by an extraordinary increase in the world price of wheat. Yet, the circumstances are such that unless we have better than equalisation, unless we have stabilisation, unless we have significantly high first payments in the industry and unless we have prices that are in excess of $2 a bushel, it is extremely doubtful whether the industry will remain solvent. Even today there is no great move towards increasing production in this great Australian industry. We must be aware that, among other things, a contributor to these circumstances has been a somewhat ruthless attitude to tariffs and revaluation. Revaluation of the Australian dollar has done more harm than good to Australia's great export industries. Whilst admitting the tremendous importance of analysing and adjusting a tariff situation, and whilst admitting that tariff control is the measure by which we control the allocation or the resources of a nation, I submit that it is somewhat unintelligent and indeed quite dangerous to reduce tariffs suddenly, almost desperately, across the board without concern for individual industries or economic and social realities. Whilst I certainly submit to a realistic appraisal of the tariff situation, I am appalled at the dangers that it carries when it is done in a somewhat ruthless and, I believe, illogical manner. 
In this circumstance we are aware of the affirmed determination of the Governor- I am now quoting-' to carry out, fully and promptly, the program for change twice endorsed by the Australian people '. I say we are aware of that because it seems to me even more dangerous to express an even greater determination to carry out a series of actions that are in fact bringing about some of the disastrous situations in the Australian economy today. I submit that it is time that the government made a realistic reappraisal of some of these attitudes since it is relatively simple to establish that they have contributed results which, I am sure, the Government, and certainly the people of Australia, would not have wanted. 
Are we to see a continuing expansion of central government power and control constantly reducing the freedom of the individual? This is so far away from the basic attitude of an Australian democratic way that it should be abandoned. It is a way that could conceivably produce a government as a monopolist- and the word 'monopoly' is anathema to a socialist. It could produce the situation where the Government instead of employing 25 per cent of the people may well employ them all. This would be a sad reflection on the Australian individual who had through the use of his vigour and through his own laws, majority held and developed, established this great society and this great economy. There is, I submit, no socialist Utopia just around the corner and we had best be careful that we do not move from a position in the centre to a position of the extreme Left, for the position of the extreme Left can be not a socialist Utopia but only some form of dictatorship. 
Australian democracy, which I believe is the Australian way, has reached great stature because of individualism. We must be careful that we do not become a pawn of foreign ideologies and alignments, for there are many foreign involvements other than foreign capital to which we may become captive. We should never forget this. We must retain freedom of choice within the common law if we are to survive as a free democracy in the tradition of the Australian people. These things I believe, because of the happenings of the last 18 months in particular, have been put under dire strain and threat. 
I suggest that the strength of our society is dependent on our capacity to have Government close to the people, our capacity to see involvement of the people in Government. This I see as facing a distinct hazard these days. There seems to be no reason at all to support any other view in a country geographically as vast as Australia and with such differing climates, faced with economic and social problems of great variety. There seems to be no reason at all to tend to move government in that circumstance away from the people. There seems to be no reason at all to get away from the basic principle in our democracy of the community's involvement in government, the power and involvement of the people on the spot, so that their knowledge and priorities may have proper significance. In this context surely the question of the sovereignty and power of the States is fundamental at this time. We in this chamber constitute a States House, and we are witnessing an immense threat to the sovereign powers of the States of Australia. In a process of decentralisation and development surely the first thing that must happen is that there must be strong and responsible States, for in the State field the member, by reason of his electorate, is physically closer to his electors, and the State government, by reason of the geographical situation, is physically closer to its electors. It would be a sad day for Australia if we were to witness the development of a situation in which the strength of this type of sovereignty and basic decentralisation were at stake. 
Through the State governments we go to local government, and local government is in distinct tremor today. Local government with the power and involvement of people on the spot is as basic to Australian democracy as is the strength, sovereignty and involvement of the people through their State parliaments. Today we see in almost every financial area tight strings- chains, if you like- attached from the central government to the States and consequently on to the local government areas. These strings are making a mockery of the people on the spot, the people it is all about. I believe there is no more perfect example of this sort of thing than the result of the negotiations recently concluded between the Federal Government and the States. As a result of those negotiations, my own State of New South Wales- I could speak of a number of areas but for the purposes of this illustration I will confine my remarks to roads- the Bureau of Roads recommendation was for a contribution from the Federal Government of grants totalling $350m plus 1 7 per cent over the 3-year period. The amount granted by the Federal Government was 17 per cent less than the Bureau of Roads recommendation. Yet the Federal Government insisted that New South Wales, through its Government, should find the exact amount of the recommendation of the Bureau of Roads- an amount of $4 14m. It was further suggested that the expenditure of $4 14m of the State's own money should be referable to the Federal Government before it was permissible to spend it. I believe that is an extraordinarily tough, dictatorial and unacceptable position. 
I believe that in this circumstance where decentralisation and development of the great States of this country are at stake real consideration must be given to the absolute necessity for 
States to share percentage-wise in the income tax returns from their particular areas. Surely this is one clear way in which a State can achieve some share of the fruits- for want of a better name- of inflation. In the Federal field, without altering income tax rates, the Federal Government is to receive in excess of $ 1,500m more money from taxation in this year. I submit it is reasonable indeed and necessary that the States, if they are to provide the services and the government which they do provide, should be in some measure concerned with that type of growth tax situation. Otherwise their capacity is to be totally denied through financial stricture. 
In closing may I say that I have considerable concern for and some knowledge of primary industry. I have been disturbed in the last 18 months to see the ruthless ripping away not of hand-outs, but of intelligent compensations to primary industry. When I speak of primary industry and the strife that this ripping away is causing, let me say that primary industry to me involves a vast cross section of the Australian people. It involves not only the farmer- not only the man who grows grain, produces wool, meat, pigs, dairy products and so on. Primary industry involves not only those people; in fact they are the minority of beneficiaries from many of these things that have been done. The people concerned are the people who live and work in the towns, villages and the provincial cities and indeed in the great metropolitan cities of our coastline. These are the people who are concerned, because when a government does things such as increasing, as in the last Budget, the price of petrol by 5c a gallon and a further 2c a gallon in the country areas and when, as happened recently, it increases the price of petrol further by an amount varying from lc a gallon to about 3 lc a gallon in the centre of Australia and in the Northern Territory, it is creating problems not so much for the farmer as it is for those vast numbers of people who live in the great smog and pollution free area of Australia. I refer to the country areas of Australia which must become great if Australia is to become a balanced whole. Those are the people the Government is attacking. 
Likewise I refer to tax concessions. What has the Government done? It is literally contributing to destroying this country's capacity to conserve fodder, conserve water in one of the driest lands on earth and to cut up properties into sizes in which they can be properly and increasingly grazed. A measure of these things is being destroyed by taking away the taxation concessions to which I refer. The superphosphate bounty, which was likewise ripped away, is just one other example of an attack not so much on the farmer but on the total rural community and, indeed, on the people who work in the phosphate works around the coastline, the people who are involved in freight in the railways, the people who are involved in aerial agriculture and so on. As these concessions- investment allowances and the like- are lost there is going to be a great problem in the area of those industries which produce agricultural machinery and of the industries involved in the servicing and selling of these machines such as trucks and spreaders. Right across the board there is a serious involvement. 
There are the increases in postal charges, the gradual removal of aid to rural air transport and many other similar measures. These are just a few of the things that are happening around us which are tending to destroy a great economy and a great society. I urge the Government to take cognisance of" these things and act while there is still time. I support the amendment to the Address-in-Reply which states: 
But the Senate is of the opinion that 
1 ) The Government is unable to handle the economic problems that confront Australia because its policies of 
deliberately creating an intolerable rate of inflation; 
I think I indicated at some length how that is coming about. There is more and more money chasing fewer goods and services. The amendment continues: 
b ) creating unemployment; 
No one would deliberately do that, but it is a real offshoot of the policies and the acts that have been taking place- 
applying a credit squeeze with high interest rates- 
Again an area of increasing cost-  have led to distressing social and economic dislocation; and 
The Government is to be condemned for its continued confrontation with the State Governments and the undermining of their rights and responsibilities. 
I hope that I have indicated in the short time available to me that those rights and responsibilities are basic to the survival and growth of this great country. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. I preface it by saying that I believe that the Minister's answer to a question asked yesterday by  Senator Maunsell  revealed his concern at this critical stage for the wool industry and for the operations of the Australian Wool Corporation. I share his concern. In view of his reply yesterday I ask the Minister whether he considers that criticism of the Australian Wool Corporation by the member for Eden-Monaro in another place last night was untimely and potentially damaging to the Corporation's operations. 
It is my purpose this afternoon not only to support the amendment to the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill but also to oppose the Bill itself. I oppose it with some measure of regret because I believe that an authority which is aimed at establishing some form of real control in a regulatory and advisory manner and in a manner which involves the distribution of financial assistance to Australian companies in particular is a good thing. But I oppose the establishment of such an authority basically because rather than do just those things it appears to me at least to be the thin edge of the wedge for some form of real nationalisation of the petroleum and minerals industries. I believe that this legislation tries to confuse the people about what is meant by control and what is meant by Government ownership. If the legislation were dealing with control then, of course, I would support it, for what free society in any country can exist without a proper measure of government control. But government control does not mean, as this Bill would have us believe, government ownership. It is on this ground that I am strongly opposed to the Bill that is before us. 
Surely the province of government in this country and in any other free country is to prevent exploitation of individuals, groups of individuals, resources and other areas. This is the real province of government. The sort of control that is needed to prevent exploitation, wherever it occurs, is certainly within the province of the Australian Government through the proper process as through action by way of legislation, through taxation and through 100 other measures well within the legislative powers of the Australian Government. Therefore, I oppose the Bill basically because in its major context I believe that it is unnecessary and that the powers of control are already with us. Of course, as the amendment has suggested, the Government is put in a very doubtful position by using the rejection of this Bill as the basis upon which to hold a double dissolution. It is very doubtful on constitutional grounds because of the time that failed to pass in the circumstances of this measure. There seems little doubt also that the Bill would be open to challenge on many grounds by State legislation. 
It has been said often- it was said in the Senate just a moment ago- that the Labor Government has been just recently re-elected to power and has a strong mandate. Of course, it has been re-elected to power and, of course, it has a mandate. But let us remember that, although 49.3 per cent of the people voted for the Government at the last election, some 50 per cent or more of the people did not vote directly for the Australian Labor Party. Whilst I would be the last to suggest that the Labor Government is not the proper government of this country, I would be the first to suggest- I think that most reasonable people would agree- that those of us who are in Opposition have a very strong reason- indeed a duty- to conduct a proper and severe scrutiny of all forms of legislation that come before the Senate. The establishment of this Petroleum and Minerals Authority is the subject of just one such piece of legislation. It is envisaged that the Authority would have 2 basic functions. On the one hand, the legislation envisages the establishment of a vertically integrated company with quite extraordinary and privileged powers. That company will have power over the research, production, transportation, processing and marketing of petroleum amd minerals. This is envisaging total government ownership. On the other hand, it has an area in which it is considered that it must apply itself in an advisory and a regulatory capacity in a measure to the industry in Australia so that it may in some real sense aid it financially where this is necessary. 
With this second proposition I have no basic disagreement; but with the first proposition, which is the major proposition of this Bill, I do disagree. I disagree with the establishment of an Authority that has such extensive and unrelenting power, power of take-over, power from a privileged position. It has in fact all the elements of becoming what is virtually an unfettered Authority. I do not believe that that sort of thing, which would lead undoubtedly to a monopolistic structure, is necessary for the proper control of minerals and petroleum energy in this country. The Authority is to have the power of take-over on its own terms and conditions. I do not believe that this is a suitable or necessary power for it to have in order to control suitably the petroleum and minerals industry in this country. 
Under clauses 43 to 50, an act of gazettal and ratification by a justice of the peace enables the Authority to explore for and recover petroleum from a declared area. The compensation for that sort of thing is to say the least extremely uneasy to identify- and in fact the Authority as to the compensation is none other than the proposed 
Authority itself. It rides roughshod over considerable numbers of State rights and laws. There is a tremendous lack of clarity about the protection afforded by State laws to prospectors and mining leases of property owners in all these areas. I have strong objection to that area which suggests that this Authority should establish its initial capital- and it would be an enormous initial capital if it was to do the job it envisages doing- by appropriation of vast sums- unlimited sums- of taxpayers' money interest free. I believe that this puts the Authority in a quite unwarranted position relative to the rest of industry. I do not believe that this is a proper measure of control. It is a measure which establishes an authority in a totally privileged position. Not only is the initial capital to be appropriated, but likewise, at the discretion of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  as to the terms and conditions, the working capital is so to be obtained. Should there be losses they are to be reimbursed by the Government, by taxpayers' money. I suggest that this sort of attitude towards establishing funds for the projected Authority is in strong contrast to the difficulties that are to be observed for some of Australia's major exporting industries other than the minerals industry. Here I think in particular of the wheat industry and the wool industry. A great difference prevails when they attempt to gain moneys to support marketing organisations and schemes and many other areas of research essential to those industries, which have established themselves as extremely efficient and important exporters and providers of overseas credit. The attitude to finance when they are involved is very different from the attitude that applies to this envisaged Authority. I suggest that the attitude is different purely and simply because the Authority is concerned not with control but with ownership. 
I believe that it is not sufficient to take a series of attacks by a government and/or some of its Ministers on the great petroleum and mining companies- Australian and otherwise- as a reason to establish this type of take-over authority within the petroleum and minerals areas. I think that we should look at the situation that is occurring as a result of the developments of the last few years and particularly of the last couple of years in the most important area of petroleum and minerals. In 1969, only 5 years ago, something like 263 wells were drilled around the Australian coastline. This year, 1974, the number was estimated at 90, about one-third of the previous figure, and the latest indications are that it will be well below 90. We are tending through our attitudes- one being the proposed establishment of this all-powerful Authority- to drive from this country the skills, techniques and investment necessary for us to continue towards self-sufficiency in the petroleum and other industries. It is worthy of note that we are extremely proud of the fact that in the years- roughly tenprior to this year we have reached a position in the Austraiian industry where we are 70 per cent self-sufficient in petroleum. That position has been reached because of the strength of exploration and development around our coastline by many great companies. 
We should be seeking to increase desperately that development because this sort of research and development is increasing in high measure all around the world. The great companies that were exploring for petroleum and minerals increased their capital involvement in the first 3 months of this year by something like 80 per cent; yet here in Australia, with a 70 per cent petroleum capacity, we are approaching a position where, if the tendencies around us today are to continue, we may well find that within a very few years we shall produce not 70 per cent of our petroleum requirements but perhaps 7 per cent. In this circumstance, the inflationary situation which concerns all of us can only be exaggerated and made to flare more strongly. I believe it is pertinent in this sort of discussion to look at the value of the petroleum and minerals industry to this country, just to look in passing at something of what it means to us. If we realise this we must realise equally how damaging and dangerous it is that we are driving away and lessening our capacity in this most important field under the circumstances that exist today. 
The petroleum and mineral industries are very significant contributors to decentralisation and the development of the harsher and more remote parts of this continent. They are more than that: They are the source of very significant employment to Australians. Many thousands of Australians are dependent for employment on the petroleum and mineral industries. And more that that: There is a very large area of involvement in the industries for people with specific skills. We are tending to lose geologists, surveyors, people with skills in the field of chemistry and engineers of varying qualifications at a time when we need them desperately. 
The minerals industry is of tremendous importance to this country from the point of view of overseas earnings. The level of our overseas capital earning capacity earned by the minerals industry has on occasions risen to about 40 per cent. Our overseas credit position is becoming of more and more significance in the present circumstance. In the 12 months period to March last year the textile industry imported some 64 million square metres of manufactured yarn. However, in the following 12 months period the importation increased to 108 million square metres, which is almost double the importation for the previous period. This is the sort of increase in the import field that is occurring right across the board. Therefore industries that can so significantly develop our overseas credit capacity are of extreme importance to the Australian scene. 
I need hardly stress the value and importance of the petroleum and mineral industries to the defence capacity of this country. A land which is dependent on overseas sources of petroleum and minerals is vulnerable indeed. As a vast land which is situated between 2 massive seas or oceans, Australia is extremely vulnerable without the sort of development which is taking place in the petroleum and mineral fields. The mere fact that we can produce and find these products in our own area is surely a significant way in which we can halt the ever-present and evervexing problem of inflation. If we were in the situation that countries like Japan are in today our inflationary rate would be incredibly higher than it is because of the immensely increased prices that we would be involved in paying for totally imported petroleum products. So, at a time when the sky should be the limit in the area of petroleum and mineral exploration and development we are, through our policies- and part of that policy I believe is the shadow of this potentially huge ownership orientated authority -driving away skilled personnel, driving away investment capital and so, potentially, risking massive amounts of taxpayers' money on high risk enterprise, the sort of risk that it has not been necessary to take in the past. I do not believe that it is in the interests of this country that we should be taking such a risk now. 
I know from time to time there has been too much international involvement. Most Australians would agree with that. But we cannot assume that the answer to our security and to our development as a great Australia is to deny ourselves all form of international involvement. Surely in the 20th century we are in the age of internationalism. Nationalism in its stark form belonged to the 1 9th century. Insofar as there is a controlled measure of international involvement in this country I suggest that, in that measure at least, we have a greater security. 
As I said earlier, if the proposed Authority envisaged purely a capacity to be a regulatory and advisory authority with a power to devote funds to Australian enterprises where these enterprises needed such power, funds and encouragement of skills, I believe it would be an excellent authority and that it would have a very real area of control and development to employ. It would like to quote briefly what the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources which reported in December 1971 had to say in this respect. The report of the Committee states: 
The Committee believes that some form of federal control of a resource as important to Australia as petroleum, both economically and for defence purposes, is desirable. 
The Committee also believes that the utilisation of this resource should be considered not as an individual resource, but as part of Australia's total fuel and energy resources. 
For these reasons the Committee believes that an advisory authority should be established with Commonwealth and State representation which would be empowered to make a comprehensive continuing survey of Australia's fuel and energy needs and tender advice to Commonwealth and State governments on all matters relevant to the use and production of fuel and energy. 
Such a body could also recommend methods of transportation for petroleum. 
When necessary it should be capable of arbitrating in disputes over the transmission interstate of petroleum products and could also have other regulatory powers. 
The evidence would suggest that regulatory and advisory responsibilities of an authority in the field of interstate trade could include: 
To authorise the construction, ownership, operation and location of interstate oil and gas pipelines. 
To make orders with respect to all matters relating to traffic, tariffs and prices; and 
To study, review and from time to time report to the Parliament on such policies and measures as it considers necessary or advisable in the public interest for the control of transportation of oil and gas. 
I am in accord with those views because I believe they are a real and proper suggestion as to the method of controlling the petroleum and mineral industries in Australia. They envisage a proper sort of relationship between the authority and industry and between the government and the States, and they have in them the capacity totally to control and set guidelines for this most important area of our industry. For instance, surely the Authority in its regulation of the pipeline grid in Australia does not need ownership. It has been suggested that a commission could exercise all the necessary powers. In the off-shore areas of the United Kingdom, the United States, in Alaska and off west Africa the relevant authorities grant non-exclusive exploration licences. Companies submit sealed bids in competition for the right to drill and develop in these specific areas. When the companies receive the right to do those things they do so under strict conditions imposed on the area and on the work commitment. In this circumstance there is maximum development of the petroleum and mineral energies involved. That development takes place under strict government control but involving not one whit of taxpayers money or of government ownership. It merely involves the establishment of conditions under which competing organisations shall produce the petroleum and /or the minerals involved. Rather than becoming a financial drain on the particular country or community it is a lucrative source of revenue. 
I need hardly draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that the relatively small Australian mineral companies are, in the present economic circumstances, in dire straits. In some 12 months the capitalisation of their stocks has dropped from $600m to $230m. The total mining involvement, excluding the oil group, has dropped from $5,000m to $3,400m. This sort of circumstance makes it extremely difficult to raise the funds which are necessary to provide the equipment, the technique and the people necessary to develop on the immense scale it is imperative that we develop, the mineral and petroleum resources of this country. The Australian operator is virtually disadvantaged, ironically enough, much more than the foreign owned multinational corporation. I ask honourable senators to remember that two-thirds of the mineral industry, in terms of value of output, are owned by Australian interests. The choice is between government participation in an immensely important industry- the petroleum and minerals industry- or government control through legislation, taxation, advice and regulation. It is this type of control which is necessary and efficient. It has been proved efficient many times over in so many parts of the world. It is this type of thing or direct ownership. It is direct ownership as a method of control as is proposed in this Bill to which I find myself to be totally opposed. 
The Bill involves what I can only term as conscription of taxpayers funds. It is conscription of those funds in a risk enterprise, an area in which they should not be involved. I believe there is an enormous area for the involvement of taxpayers funds in this country- defence, education, welfare, economic incentive and so forth. There is an enormous area in which vast sums of taxpayers money must be involved by governments, but I believe that one of the areas in which it is not necessary to involve vast sums of taxpayers money is the extremely high risk enterprise area of petroleum and mineral research and development. Only a few weeks ago I read a report in which it was established that the first successful hole had been achieved after some 40 holes had been drilled. That is indicating some of the measure of danger in the oil drilling industry alone. It is a problem which people involved in this area have to face. 
As I have said, there is considerable confusion because the Australian Industry Development Corporation legislation could well fulfil some of the major objectives of this sort of authority. There is considerable confusion also because that legislation overlaps the equity functions of this Bill. The pipeline legislation overlaps much of the acquisition and many of the transportation powers which are involved. In this country there is a grave measure of uncertainty in the great petroleum and minerals industry. It is an uncertainty which can do nothing but harm to the capacity of Australia to develop an area of its economy which must be developed on an enormous scale. We need the capital, the special skill, the technology, greater parliamentary scrutiny. We need, on the one hand, co-operation between the Government and industry and, on the other hand, co-operation between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments. 
I oppose the proposed authority because I believe its principal objectives- there appear to be two of them- are incompatible. On the one hand there is in this measure the objective to advise, to regulate and to control. I believe that this is a proper and necessary objective. The second objective envisages an authority with huge and unfettered powers acting from a totally privileged position to own the Australian petroleum and minerals industry; to compete from a totally and an absolutely unnecessarily, I believe, privileged position. Unquestionably these 2 functions are incompatible. I shall read very briefly from a report of the Industries Assistance Commission which I believe has some measure of aptness in the case of petroleum and minerals. The report states: 
A policy of obtaining control by increasing Australian equity in one or more of the major vehicle manufacturing firms would be a costly undertaking. Government policy can ensure that the firms in the industry adopt policies which conform with broad economic and social objectives of the Government at a lower cost by legislation in areas such as taxation, environmental and safety standards, and restrictive trade practices. Such legislation should, and in some cases already does, set standards with regard to the conduct of not only the multi-national firms but of all firms within the industry. 
If for 'vehicle' we read 'petroleum and minerals' then I believe that this is a very apt situation and an apt piece of advice, coming as it does from the Industries Assistance Commission. I have pleasure in opposing the Bill. 
Does the Minister for Agriculture agree with the assessment of wool industry leaders recently overseas that wool users are now accepting and looking for a stable price for wool to be established with a 12-month duration and to be adjusted each season through reference to changes in the cost situation? Is he aware that the current level at or about 300c clean for average 2 1 micron fleece is regarded as a reasonable base in the wool textile industry? Will he concede that the Australian Wool Corporation in arriving at this level has indicated a realistic commercial assessment of the market at a difficult time? Will he further agree that there is an absolute urgency for the Government to strongly support the Corporation because of the basic relationship of the wool industry to the overall balance of Australian primary production and that weakness at this point will herald another catastrophic era in a broad area of the economy? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Has the Government offered to help Indonesia control the outbreak of foot and mouth disease at Bali? If not, will the Government treat this as a matter of urgency in order to eradicate the disease in a neighbouring country and also prevent its dreaded entry into the Australian livestock industry? 
I do not believe there is any intention whatsoever of sidestepping a most important issue that is before us today and which hopefully will be before us on Tuesday of next week. An immense amount of material has to be considered in this case. It is immense because the recommendations of the Remuneration Tribunal cover more than just the salaries of parliamentarians. The recommendations cover a considerable principle and a very wide area of salaries over a very wide range of levels. It is impossible and unreasonable that we should be expected at such extremely short notice to discuss and to debate intelligently this sort of important proposition. One must in this chamber be capable of providing evidence of responsibility. That must surely be the first yardstick with which we measure the effectiveness of this chamber. Many similar things are said on many occasions in many places, and this in itself does not detract from the importance, the nature or the authenticity of those things. 
This House is, by definition, amongst other things, a House of review, and it is this function of review that we are being asked to exercise in this case. The purport of this discussion is whether this House, in the light of the knowledge and in the light of the brevity of the time in which it has had that knowledge, is in fact capable of making a responsible and proper examination of the situation with which it is faced. We in this country are in a situation of extreme urgency. But I do not believe that the urgency can be properly related to this matter before us this afternoon. We are in a condition of extreme urgency in many fields, and perhaps the most important field of all in which there is a great measure of urgency is the cynical outlook which has developed in almost the entire Australian community. 
There is in the Australian community a cynicism and, indeed, a great measure of concern over most of the basic things that concern us as Australians operating what is, and hopefully what shall remain, a free enterprise democracy. There is a great measure of urgency on us as members of part of the Parliament to examine and resolve these matters, but that sort of urgency certainly does not apply to the question that is before us today. 
We have a cynical and anxious public. To suggest that there is a greater urgency to discuss this question than there is to find a very greatly needed solution to the cynicism and anxiety that confronts the Australian people today is complete and utter rubbish. It is our province in this House to establish facts and attitudes and without those facts and attitudes we cannot be in a position to pass a proper balanced and responsible judgment on the matter that is before us this afternoon. It is for these reasons that I feel sure that, in the main, the Senate must agree that there is no urgency to carry this debate to a conclusion at this point. There is a far greater urgency to get on with the business of the nation. I urge that, in order to apply that sort of responsibility, this debate should be deferred until next Tuesday. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture and refers to the question just asked by  Senator Everett.  Is it a fact that contracts for the export of Austraiian wheat are currently threatened by transport delays caused by industrial problems? If so, what action has the Government taken to ensure that future wheat sales are not jeopardised by union actions which are beyond the control of wheat growers and the Australian Wheat Board? 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen reports that the Graziers Association of New South Wales will consider, in conjunction with other farm organisations, withholding agricultural produce from market as a bargaining device with the Federal Government? Does he agree that this would be a desperate measure? Does he also agree that farmer organisations would be unlikely to consider such tactics if it were true, as the Prime Minister claims, that farmers have never had it so good? 
I rise tonight at this late hour to oppose this BUI. I must remark that most of the authority for the establishment of a Petroleum and Minerals Authority seems to have taken the nature of abuse. I do not believe that abuse is proper justification for any authority, whether it be this one or an authority in any field whatsoever in the area of our endeavour. I oppose this Bill in the first place, and very simply in my view, because there is absolutely no need for such an extraordinary monopolistic, tax-fed, privileged giant as this Authority can well become. There is no need for this sort of extravagant authority in order properly to control and direct the important areas of our economy. Such an authority with such extraordinary and privileged powers could be justified only if in fact the concern of the Government, the establisher of this Authority, was not control of those industries but the ownership of them. In that sort of circumstance, most definitely, that sort of authority would indeed be justified. 
The Authority involves a vast measure of contribution from taxpayers' funds, in spite of what has been said, in extremely high risk areas of research in extremely high risk enterprise. It is extraordinary to imagine that sums in the vicinity of $200m a year could be envisaged for this sort of unnecessary involvement in government ownership at a time when this very Government has arbitrarily, by the stroke of a pen, taken away $ 1 30m from the area of child care, and has taken away, by another stroke of a pen, $28m which has been directed to keep some sort of balance in the price of petrol throughout this vast community, throughout this vast economy. In view of the actions which the Government is so commonly, so quickly and so constantly taking it is an extraordinary thing that it can find justification for the expenditure of this sort of money. 
I have no argument at all with the necessity for government to have a proper measure of control over such things as the Australian equity in these and other industries. There is no argument about the need for control in those areas. There is no argument about the need for the Government to control the exploitation of the resources of our nation. There is no argument about the need for a government to control the economic and social conditions within an industry. But I suggest that in order to have this proper measure of control there is ample legislative power within the present construction of our Constitution, and through taxation and other means. By these means we can control national resources at a developmental level or at whatever level one can think of. 
The powers for satisfactory and suitable control as they stand today are well within the province of the Government without introducing extraordinary measures such as those which are envisaged in connection with this Authority. The measure of the government in a democracy surely must be its capacity and performance in preventing exploitation, whether it be exploitation of individuals, groups of individuals, of resources or indeed of freedom itself. Sometimes I wonder whether there is sufficient prevention of exploitation from this Government when one can read- as we read just recently- that the builders labourers' representative in this country announced to the Australian Government and people that in the near future there would be a national strike organised by his communist friends. I suggest that this is exploitation of freedom which a responsible government should take some very strong measures to control. As I said earlier, ownership is not necessarily in order to control an industry, industries or the people of the community properly. Because this sort of legislation is unnecessary I am led to believe that within this legislation and at the back of this envisaged Authority there must be an attitude which is not really basically concerned with control as a proper and necessary institution or measure. 
I believe that in some real measure there must be an ideological base. I believe that this is concerned with the concept of government moving to a position where it becomes totally the master of the people and not the servant of the people. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill has 2 basic functions. In the first place, it envisagesthis is the area to which I have the greatest objectionthe establishment of a vertically integrated company with the power to enter, to research, to develop, to trade in, to transport and indeed to market anything in the area of petroleum and minerals in this country. Even a vertically integrated company with vast power may be bearable in a certain context, but this is a company with vast, privileged powers. There is a distinct difference between a government instrumentality which enters into a field to exercise a measure of control in an unprivileged or a normal across-the-board situation and an instrumentality which enters into that field in a totally privileged position. This Authority will know no bounds when it comes to establishing its own capital- its working capital, its initial capital. Indeed, if it makes a loss, I understand that it can recoup it from government funds. 
With its second province- the province of advice and regulation- I have no argument at all. I believe that this is the proper province of this sort of authority. However, I have severe objections to the Authority on a number of other grounds. I have objections to the giant Authority which I described in the first place as a tax fed, monopolistic, octopus-type institution. I object because it is, in fact, moving into an area of competition from a totally privileged position. This is unacceptable. A mere act of gazettal and ratification by a justice of the peace is sufficient to allow this Authority to move into and operate in any declared area. In this sort of circumstance compensation, presumably by way of royalty, is to be totally decided by the Authority itself. There is no yardstick for the assessment of this sort of compensation and no guarantee that it will be available at any specific time. In this Authority there is also an immense challenge to the sovereignty of the States. Such a challenge is becoming all too common these days. This is one more effort to take government away from the people. 
Time is short, and in closing I draw attention to the fact that this Authority will have access to unlimited capital on which it will pay no interest and for which there are no terms of repayment. Yet magnificent and important export industries, such as the wheat and wool industries, find extraordinary difficulty in getting even a guarantee of finance, let alone capital, in terms which are infinitesimal compared with the terms related to the proposed Authority. I oppose this Bill on the ground that the 2 functions envisaged for this Authority are totally incompatible. 
I rise tonight at this late hour to oppose this Bill. I must remark that most of the authority for the establishment of a Petroleum and Minerals Authority seems to have taken the nature of abuse. I do not believe that abuse is proper justification for any authority, whether it be this one or an authority in any field whatsoever in the area of our endeavour. I oppose this Bill in the first place, and very simply in my view, because there is absolutely no need for such an extraordinary monopolistic, tax-fed, privileged giant as this Authority can well become. There is no need for this sort of extravagant authority in order properly to control and direct the important areas of our economy. Such an authority with such extraordinary and privileged powers could be justified only if in fact the concern of the Government, the establisher of this Authority, was not control of those industries but the ownership of them. In that sort of circumstance, most definitely, that sort of authority would indeed be justified. 
The Authority involves a vast measure of contribution from taxpayers' funds, in spite of what has been said, in extremely high risk areas of research in extremely high risk enterprise. It is extraordinary to imagine that sums in the vicinity of $200m a year could be envisaged for this sort of unnecessary involvement in government ownership at a time when this very Government has arbitrarily, by the stroke of a pen, taken away $ 1 30m from the area of child care, and has taken away, by another stroke of a pen, $28m which has been directed to keep some sort of balance in the price of petrol throughout this vast community, throughout this vast economy. In view of the actions which the Government is so commonly, so quickly and so constantly taking it is an extraordinary thing that it can find justification for the expenditure of this sort of money. 
I have no argument at all with the necessity for government to have a proper measure of control over such things as the Australian equity in these and other industries. There is no argument about the need for control in those areas. There is no argument about the need for the Government to control the exploitation of the resources of our nation. There is no argument about the need for a government to control the economic and social conditions within an industry. But I suggest that in order to have this proper measure of control there is ample legislative power within the present construction of our Constitution, and through taxation and other means. By these means we can control national resources at a developmental level or at whatever level one can think of. 
The powers for satisfactory and suitable control as they stand today are well within the province of the Government without introducing extraordinary measures such as those which are envisaged in connection with this Authority. The measure of the government in a democracy surely must be its capacity and performance in preventing exploitation, whether it be exploitation of individuals, groups of individuals, of resources or indeed of freedom itself. Sometimes I wonder whether there is sufficient prevention of exploitation from this Government when one can read- as we read just recently- that the builders labourers' representative in this country announced to the Australian Government and people that in the near future there would be a national strike organised by his communist friends. I suggest that this is exploitation of freedom which a responsible government should take some very strong measures to control. As I said earlier, ownership is not necessarily in order to control an industry, industries or the people of the community properly. Because this sort of legislation is unnecessary I am led to believe that within this legislation and at the back of this envisaged Authority there must be an attitude which is not really basically concerned with control as a proper and necessary institution or measure. 
I believe that in some real measure there must be an ideological base. I believe that this is concerned with the concept of government moving to a position where it becomes totally the master of the people and not the servant of the people. The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill has 2 basic functions. In the first place, it envisagesthis is the area to which I have the greatest objectionthe establishment of a vertically integrated company with the power to enter, to research, to develop, to trade in, to transport and indeed to market anything in the area of petroleum and minerals in this country. Even a vertically integrated company with vast power may be bearable in a certain context, but this is a company with vast, privileged powers. There is a distinct difference between a government instrumentality which enters into a field to exercise a measure of control in an unprivileged or a normal across-the-board situation and an instrumentality which enters into that field in a totally privileged position. This Authority will know no bounds when it comes to establishing its own capital- its working capital, its initial capital. Indeed, if it makes a loss, I understand that it can recoup it from government funds. 
With its second province- the province of advice and regulation- I have no argument at all. I believe that this is the proper province of this sort of authority. However, I have severe objections to the Authority on a number of other grounds. I have objections to the giant Authority which I described in the first place as a tax fed, monopolistic, octopus-type institution. I object because it is, in fact, moving into an area of competition from a totally privileged position. This is unacceptable. A mere act of gazettal and ratification by a justice of the peace is sufficient to allow this Authority to move into and operate in any declared area. In this sort of circumstance compensation, presumably by way of royalty, is to be totally decided by the Authority itself. There is no yardstick for the assessment of this sort of compensation and no guarantee that it will be available at any specific time. In this Authority there is also an immense challenge to the sovereignty of the States. Such a challenge is becoming all too common these days. This is one more effort to take government away from the people. 
Time is short, and in closing I draw attention to the fact that this Authority will have access to unlimited capital on which it will pay no interest and for which there are no terms of repayment. Yet magnificent and important export industries, such as the wheat and wool industries, find extraordinary difficulty in getting even a guarantee of finance, let alone capital, in terms which are infinitesimal compared with the terms related to the proposed Authority. I oppose this Bill on the ground that the 2 functions envisaged for this Authority are totally incompatible. 
-I present the following petition from 49 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That whereas our constitutional parliamentary democracy was clearly developed as a Federation to preserve for all time to the Australian people their cherished right to live as free men and women, enjoying complete liberty of worship, assembly, speech, movement and the communication of knowledge and information, 
And whereas our existing Australian Flag and our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen,' are perpetual reminders of these hard-won freedoms and of the wise British principle of the division of power, so well reflected in our own Australian Constitution with its careful separation of powers as between the Crown and Commonwealth Parliament, the Senate, the State parliaments, the GovernorGeneral and State Governors, and the independent Courts of Justice, 
And whereas all such rights, liberties, heritage, advancement and prosperity, etc., are of no avail if our armed forces are unprepared or incapable of repelling invasion of our shores or withstanding other military threats, 
So therefore must all these things be accorded the highest national concern and priority. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
The most rapid, efficient and largest possible expansion of all branches of our defence forces, and greatest possible strengthening and extending of defence treaties and security arrangements with our traditional friends and allies, 
The right of every Australian citizen to vote at a national referendum or Senate or Federal elections for the retention of our present Australian Flag and equally of our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen', before any government or other body can attempt to substitute either a new flag or anthem, and a similar voting right for the choice of any official National Song to play on international occasions. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a petition similarly worded has already been presented by  Senator Maunsell  I do not propose that the petition be read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education: Is it a fact that many students in secondary schools and tertiary institutions have missed out on Federal Government allowances because inflation has taken parents' income above the means test limit? Can the Minister tell the Senate how many secondary school students have received allowances this year and how this figure compares with the number who benefited annually under the former Government's secondary scholarship scheme? Will the Government review the position before the commencement of the 1975 school year? 
I present the following petition from 87 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The Petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That whereas our constitutional parliamentary democracy was clearly developed as a Federation to preserve for all time to the Australian people their cherished right to live as free men and women, enjoying complete liberty of worship, assembly, speech, movement and the communication of knowledge and information, 
And whereas our existing Australian Flag and our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen', are perpetual reminders of these hard-won freedoms and of the wise British principle of the division of power, so well reflected in our own Australian Constitution with its careful separation of powers as between the Crown and Commonwealth Parliament, the Senate, the State Parliaments, the GovernorGeneral and State Governors, and the Independent Courts of Justice. 
And whereas all such rights, liberties, heritage, advancement and prosperity, etc., are of no avail if our Armed Forces are unprepared or incapable of repelling invasion of our shores or withstanding other military threats. 
So therefore must all these things be accorded the highest national concern and priority. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
The most rapid, efficient and largest possible expansion of all branches of our Defence Forces, and greatest possible strengthening and extending of defence treaties and security arrangements with our traditional friends and allies, 
The right of every Australian citizen to vote at a National Referendum or Senate or Federal Elections for the retention of our present Australian Flag and equally of our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen', before any government or other body can attempt to substitute either a new flag or anthem, and a similar voting right for the choice of any official National Song to play on international occasions. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a petition similarly worded has already been presented by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, I do not propose to move that this petition be read. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the Government's stated intention of providing $20m or more a month for unemployment relief and in view of the immense flood damage, particularly to roads and bridges in the Lachlan, 
Murray, Mumimbidgee, Macquarie and other river valleys in New South Wales, I ask: Will this money be available to local government bodies to help speed their mammoth and urgent task of repair? If so, how soon can the money be obtained and by what manner of application? Is the Minister aware that regretfully a significant element of unemployment is present in these areas and would provide the additional work force that would be needed? 
I rise briefly to support the disallowance of these regulations. I do so because I believe they should be disallowed from the points of view both of principle and fact. It seems to me that it is totally unnecessary in the case of the uranium industry- as in the case of many other mineral and petroleum industries- that in order to have proper measures of control, with which none of us would disagree, it should be suggested somewhat sinisterly that controls and ownership are synonymous. I do not believe that in order properly to control the uranium availability and the uranium industry in this country it is necessary to literally own it. Mining rights are totally impotent if they are not accompanied by a licence. This is the situation we find today when many companies, particularly in the uranium area, are unable to operate from a research and developmental point of view and unable to continue drilling in this extremely important exploit area, purely because they have no licence through regulations which are part of the Atomic Energy Act and which are related to security situations. I believe that at this time the demand for uranium has probably never been higher. The opportunities for this industry in Australia are tremendous but the attitude of our Government unfortunately is totally stifling an industry which has so much to offer to our economy. There is, within that industry, total frustration. There is a lack of employment, development, and contribution which could and should be significant to the Australian economy. 
Today the demand for uranium is such that we have a sellers market. Back in the 1950s it was a sellers market in uranium and the world price was high. It then started to decline and declined significantly until very recent times when we came into a sellers market again with the opportunities to export and to create oveseas credit. This has become a very real situation indeed. At this time the policies of this Government seem to me to be retarding this nation's capacity to enjoy the sort of export results that should be produced by this industry. It is a relatively temporary situation. I believe it is important that we confine our thoughts to this aspect. Because of the exploration that is required, because of the investigations in the field of atomic energy, because of the technical developments and because of the development of breeder reactors, it is fairly well and fairly certainly recognised that the market for uranium will exist for a relatively short period. I am informed that it is generally considered that the demand for this most important product is likely to decline within a period of 15 or 20 years, and to decline very significantly in a period longer than that. 
Indeed, there is more reason for our using our capacity to develop our uranium resources at this time. With a high price for the product, we could find ourselves in a situation where many uranium deposits suddenly became economic areas of exploitation, deposits which at many other times certainly would not be economic to exploit. Australia has the great advantage of having known resources which not only give it a domestic supply of some real satisfaction but, also quite clearly, give it a capacity to export. How important it is,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that we should be exporting those things which we are capable of exporting at this time because Australia's export markets and overseas credit situation are declining at an alarming rate. We should be going forward in this area. We should, with proper control and with proper methods, be developing a market which can augment the export earnings of this country. The uncertainty which has developed in the mining industry, particularly in the uranium industry, because of this indecisive situation is unfortunately quite widespread in the Australian community today. 
There seems to be some sort of concern on the part of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  that Australia should do nothing about this uranium situation prior to the establishment of an enrichment plant in Australia. Hopefully, such a plant could be a proposition for the future; but to withhold action and development at this time purely on that ground is quite ridiculous. An enrichment plant not only would involve immense amounts of the taxpayers' money to develop; there is the added problem that there is an insufficient domestic market to make such an exploit a real economic possibility. If we established an enrichment plant in this country at this time we would be dependent on having a vast overseas market for the enriched product. The fact is that in Japan and the United States of America, the chief markets for the uranium of which we have such great supplies, there is an extremely cool attitude towards Australia exporting the enriched product. The simple reason for this is that, just as we like to keep our industries going in this country because of social and economic considerations, so do they; and they have very large markets. They have the good fortune, according to some points of view, of having vast home markets in which they are involved with this highly expensive enterprise. It is fairly natural to presume that their attitude to the establishment of enrichment plants in Australia would not be likely to contribute significantly to our capacity to sell our product in that form. On the other hand, for the product in its cruder form we have a superb market right now at extremely high prices. 
I suggest that there is a measure of irony in the fact that these regulations and the attitude of the Government, or at least of  Mr Connor,  are causing Australian owned enterprises to be placed in severe jeopardy. That does not seem to fit in with the reputed attitude of this Government. It certainly does not fit in with the attitude of the Opposition Parties. These regulations are based on the wartime powers of the Atomic Energy Act. They are concerned with security considerations, and properly so. 
Production is not happening. It has stopped. There is no production. All I am suggesting is that the security considerations of that Act could perhaps be better directed at this time- on social, economic and defence grounds- to the extremely dangerous fuel situation in which this country finds itself. I do not believe that they are contributing anything but disaster to an industry which has great capacity for employment, for the investment of funds and for increasing the export earnings of this country. 
-I believe that it does need controlled development. I said in the first place that there is a significant difference between control and ownership. To my mind there is an immense degree of control available in the powers already held. There are controls over exports and there is control in various other forms of legislation. There is ample power of control in this country without denying companies the right to research and develop areas which can be developed as part of this important uranium industry. 
-I am saying that the Government has stopped production with these regulations. I believe that the comments of  Senator Hall  are worth looking at. He referred to four of our policy points which relate to the uranium mining industry. I believe that he complained that the policy was too general. I am quite certain that that is the only complaint that could be directed against our policy. I am- also certain that at this stage and in this context it is impossible to give any statistics in connection with these policy points. 
The first point is that there should be realistic export price levels and royalties. Surely the use of the word 'realistic' is sufficient indication in regard to price levels and royalties. The second point is that there should be satisfactory environmental assessment and protection. I emphasise the word 'satisfactory'. The third point is that there should be satisfactory negotiations with Aboriginal groups and so on. Once again I emphasise the word 'satisfactory'. The fourth point is that there should be the maintenance of the dominant position of Australian ownership and control. Surely the word 'dominant' is pretty clear. It need not be spelt out as being 51 per cent, 57 per cent or some other figure. I believe that these policy points represent realistic control. I believe that these regulations contribute nothing but harm to the development of a great and important Australian industry. I firmly support the motion for disallowance. 
We are debating a Bill to amend the law relating to conciliation and arbitration in relation to the amalgamation of organisations. I oppose the Bill with a measure of reluctance because I believe that anything pertaining to conciliation and arbitration is of extreme importance in the Australian scene and, if there could be an addition to the efficiency of conciliation and arbitration in this country by the amalgamations that are envisaged and more particularly by the methods of amalgamation that are envisaged, it would be a happy position to support such a proposition. Today, probably more than ever before in our history, there is an urgent need to reestablish stability in the economic and industrial scene. Probably the greatest single cause of the remarkable degree of stability that we in Australia have had in those areas over many years has been the operation of the conciliation and arbitration legislation. That legislation has served this country extremely well. Over the past generation the operation of it has been the envy of many lands. 
Stability and development go hand in hand. I would be the last to oppose legislation if I believed that it had within it a real contribution to re-invigorating stability and development in this land. I do not believe this Bill has that. I believe that there is an extreme danger at the moment that this country, through instability, has ceased to be attractive to developmental capital from many places around the world. Only two or three weeks ago we saw the required deposit on overseas capital invested in this country reduced from 33-1/3 per cent to 25 per cent and then quite dramatically to 5 per cent. It is the considered opinion of most people around the world that it is unlikely that Australia in its present circumstances will prove attractive, even with that relatively light imposition. There is in fact no obvious desire for investment in Australia. If this sort of legislation were likely to increase the desire for that investment, then there would be merit in the Bill. 
The strength of our system surely has been that it has enabled employer and employee alike to talk things over; to consider a proposition; to reach an agreement in the proper method of conciliation, it sometimes being totally unnecessary to continue to arbitration; to talk things over and to agree mutually, with a minimum of strikes, lockouts and industrial unrest- a minimum of the things which are major contributors to the inflationary situation we have in Australia today. We must never forget that there always will be an employer-employee relationship, whether there be one employer or half a million employers, whether there be the state as the employer or any number of individual and private employers. We must never forget, as we look at this sort of legislation, that the state in fact is the super capitalist. The state is probably the greatest exploiter of man and materials throughout history. The province of government and the province of legislation envisaged, such as legislation on conciliation and arbitration, is primarily to prevent exploitation, whether it be of man or of materials. It is important that we should not become beholden to dictatorships of the Left or the Right. I am sure that this is as important in the life and operations of the Australian unionist as it is in those of every other member of our community. 
Of all the causes of inflation- they range through management, wages and salariesperhaps the greatest single cause in the present context and in fact in the context of most similar situations in other countries is industrial unrest, because industrial unrest and militancy tend to produce a situation in which the production of goods and the availability of services become smaller and smaller and in which the amount of money chasing those goods and services constantly rises. This is the classic circumstance of inflation. This is the circumstances that we have today. As a corollary to it surely we have a loss of confidence in Australia both at home and abroad. 
I have spoken at some length on the importance of conciliation and arbitration, something of its history and something of the employeremployee relationship. I have done this because it is against this background that we must view this Bill. It is against this background that we must ask ourselves: Does this proposed law really offer some sort of solution to the employeremployee relationship in this country? Does it really concern itself with the values, attitudes and security of the great mass of Australian unionists? Does it really place them as individuals in a better position than they were before? Are the methods of amalgamation such that they will improve the lost of the average Australian unionist? They are the questions that we must ask ourselves. 
Consequent upon the answers to those questions, we must decide whether this legislation should be passed; whether it does in fact contribute to better relations between employers and employees; and most importantly, whether it does in fact contribute realistically to better conditions and better circumstances for the great mass of Australian unionists. On balance, I am forced to arrive at the conclusion that it does not. I do not believe- I say this with some reluctancethat the manners envisaged in the proposed amalgamation methods in this Bill will improve in any way the lot of the average Australian unionist. I do not believe that the Bill will contribute in any way to a better employeremployee relationship. Rather, is it likely to produce a situation in which the many are further controlled and directed by the few; rather is it likely to produce a situation that may well lead to confrontation which probably will be of little or no value to either party in the argument. 
If there were in this legislation a realistic contribution to the conciliation and arbitration problem, I most certainly would support it because never before has there been an urgency such as there is today. It demands that the Australian scene find a realistic solution to the industrial problems which beset us and which, in this country, are bringing about great strains in the petroleum and mineral industries which are of such dramatic importance in a time of energy crisis. It is this sort of industrial unrest and the consequent inflationary situation which are bringing about problems, many of them in the vast primary industries. These industries which produce a large measure of Australia's overseas credits are being sorely and sadly strained today in the economic situation. Likewise, in the manufacturing field, industrial problems add to many other competitive problems. Along with them come the threat and, unfortunately, unemployment. 
The over valuation of the Australian dollar is affecting not only the massive export industries of this country but is also having an effect on employment and, consequently, on industrial relations and the invisible exports of this country such as tourist activities which are quite dramatically decreasing as it costs relatively more and more to purchase Australian currency. There is a great deal of uncertainty around us. If the contribution of this amalgamation proposition were to solve in any way the uncertainty we would support it. Regretfully, we cannot convince ourselves that there is any genuine advantage to either the employer or the employee from the proposed Bill.  Senator Greenwood  dealt at considerable length with some of the major omissions of this Bill. For instance, a ballot of members is no longer to be a secret postal ballot. The ballot must now be conducted purely according to the rules of the organisation. These seldom provide for secret postal ballots. In relation to the roll of voters, a statutory definition of an unfinancial member is to be removed. This, in itself, will open the way to various forms of manipulation which can be of no value to the great mass of Australian unionists. 
The provision of 3 months notice from the beginning of the ballot to its close is to disappear. There is to be no publication of argument for or against the proposed amalgamation. Within 2 months of the ballot the cases for and against amalgamation used to be circulated and they would accompany the ballot paper. But now the opponents of amalgamation have no right to put their views to the membership. Regulations used to provide for equal representation of argument for or against. Now there is no such power to enact regulations to provide this balanced information.  Mr Deputy President,  I am drawing your attention to these few things once again because their real significance is that they tend to work to the disadvantage of the Australian unionist in the matter of amalgamation. It is not the amalgamation of unions that is so important. It is the welfare and the future of unionist themselves. This appears to be the basic concern which we should apply as the yardstick to this legislation. Of course, previously in relation to an amalgamation it was necessary that half the members of the union should vote and that there should be a majority of that half. Now such a regulation is no longer to apply. This cannot in any way be considered a step forward in a democracy such as ours. It cannot be considered a step forward when, in fact, a simply majority of perhaps 10 per cent of people involved can direct the course of their union and other unions in search of amalgamation. 
I believe that the legislation will contribute very much to improved industrial relations and to the control of unions by the mass of unionists if it concerns itself with the introduction of compulsory secret postal ballots. In the election of a union executive surely this must be a realistic way of contributing to the democracy of the union system in Australia and to more successful relationships between employer and employee alike. Surely the form of election which is satisfactory for the Australian people to elect their government- at this stage an Australian Labor Party Government- should be an excellent and indeed necessary form by which to elect whether a union is to amalgamate with another union. Amalgamation can be sought by only 20 per cent of the union which can request that a ballot be held of the members of the union to be absorbed. The signatures of a minority of a target union are sufficient to have that brought about. There is to be no case against such an amalgamation. Any committee of management must complete its investigations in less than 3 months. To me this seems to be extraordinary haste when one recalls that in the cast of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union it took something like  2lA  years to perform. I understand that the amalgamation was sought by 3 unions and that there was general agreement that the amalgamation should be brought about. This was the circumstance in which the parties were in agreement. How silly it seems that a limit of 3 months should be imposed on amalgamation in the circumstances envisaged in this legislation. 
One must tend to wonder whether the legislation towards amalgamation which is envisaged in this Bill is not more concerned with some form of body snatching or empire building within unions themselves. Perhaps this is the objective of making an amalgamation so much simpler to perform. I can imagine that this type of thing will increase the possibility of interference within the union by other unions. This is a strange approach from the Government which, quite correctly, says internationally that there should be no interference with the smaller nations and that there should be no internal interference. I understand that this is the policy of the Government in the international field. Yet here the Government is opening up the way by this proposed legislation for that very sort of interference within the union field. This interference will make it possible to cajole and to bring under the one umbrella any number of unions, large or small. I do not consider that this is a contribution to a democratic way of life. In fact, all this is contrary to the Government's foreign policy, as we read it, although I must admit that it is not really contrary to the sort of policy that we saw only last week in regard to the incorporation of the Baltic States into the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The policy adopted in regard to this Bill is similar to the philosophy or logic adopted in regard to that matter. It is a philosophy or logic that we thought or had hoped was not typical of this Government. 
Surely today it is the economic situation rather than the amalgamations of unions that is the problem in this country. We know that 75 per cent of industrial strife in Australia today is in regard to wages. This is occurring in an inflationary, unproductive situation. The economic problem is not solved by the passing of legislation such as this. It is legislation which can only make it simpler for the take-over by one or more unions by another union. Surely it would be much more realistic to look at the question of compulsory secret ballots and to look at the question of enforcing the law. I say this because the law applies to all of us and I can see no reason why it should not apply and be applied in this area. 
Basically this legislation would tend to place a sort of monopoly control in the hands of certain unions. It would create that control by making it so much simpler and easier to establish a giant organisation where formerly there were many. It is quite an improper and wrong premise to assume that because something is big it is more efficient. I know the laws of division of labour and so forth, but efficiency is not necessarily determined by size alone. I believe that in considering the amalgamation of unions we should consider this point. Efficiency is determined by the application of capital and labour to a point and at a point at which it reaches a maximum. So it is completely wrong to assume that size alone determines efficiency. It is completely wrong to assume that by absorbing any number of unions into another union we are, in fact, helping the individual members of those unions. In all probability, we are submerging the special interests and abilities of many of the people within those unions. 
Let me say in conclusion that I am not antiunion amalgamation as such. But I do not believe that this Bill does anything but make it easier for take-overs within the union field. I believe that this type of legislation can contribute virtually nothing to the general situation of the Australian unionist or of the Australian employer. I oppose the proposed legislation. 
It is my duty to speak on behalf of the Opposition to the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill, the Wheat Products Export Adjustment Bill and the Wheat Export Charge Bill which I believe are to be considered in a cognate debate. The Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill is a measure to authorise the Australian Wheat Board to require the making of certain payments in respect of the export of wheat products. The other Bills impose a charge in respect of wheat and wheat products which are exported from Australia. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  The suggestion has been made that the 3 Bills be made the subject of a cognate debate. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is it the wish of the Senate that we proceed along these lines? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
-I indicate on behalf of the Opposition that these 3 Bills receive our support without amendment. It is a matter of regret that a delay of some 3 months or more occurred in the presentation of these Bills. The delay could have played a prominent part in preventing the Australian Wheat Board making the August payment of 27c a bushel on the 1973-74 crop. The agreement for the industry is of very great significance. I believe that no industry, and perhaps least of all one of the major primary industries, can exist without some firm measure of stabilisation. This agreement and these Bills contribute to a situation of stabilisation or, perhaps more accurately, define a situation of equalisation covering the next 5 years. The agreements between the various industry bodies and the Government were arrived at after considerable effort. It would be unfair to suggest that they were welcomed with open arms by the industry. I believe that there was compromise from both sides. I find that these agreements and this proposition are certainly acceptable to the industry, the Government and the Opposition. Consequently the industry, the Government and the Opposition support this stabilisation scheme. 
The alternative in the negotiations, which were protracted, would have been to return to a situation of virtual chaos in wheat marketing which would have taken us back 40 years. Nobody in this country would have wanted anything to do with that situation. It is pertinent that we consider a number of things concerning an industry as great and as important to the Australian economy as the wheat industry. From time to time the industry and its members come in for a considerable measure of criticism on the grounds that it is the recipient of handouts of public moneys. So I think it is worthwhile and necessary that we look at a few of the features of this most important industry. In terms of its capacity to earn overseas credits and in efficiency this is indeed a great industry. Universally it is considered that the Australian farmer certainly ranks amongst the most efficient farmers in the world, if he is not the most efficient. I think it is worthy of mention that, contrary often to the general conception, the contribution which the Australian wheat growing industry has made to the consumption of wheat and its products in the Australian economy has been significant. 
Since the stabilisation scheme was initiated, in general terms the contribution of the wheat industry has been something in excess of $400m more than the amount that the Government has been required to put into the scheme. Under this new scheme the amount to be provided by the Government in keeping a measure of stabilisation will be limited to $80m over a 5-year period. This amount is to be a grant which is repayable, and that is a distinction, and perhaps a measure of disadvantage to the industry itself compared to the previous agreement which did not involve a repayable sum of money. 
I believe we should be mindful of the fact that in the buoyant circumstances of the wheat market around the world today the Australian wheat industry will make a contribution to the Australian consumer in this year of something in the vicinity of $ 100m. I merely make these points in order to clarify the situation of this industry, to clarify the situation which suggests that it is an industry which contributes to a non-inflationary circumstance in a country which is involved in a very marked measure of inflation. The grower contribution in this particular 5-year scheme is limited to $30m in any one year and the contribution ceases to be made should the price of wheat fall below $1.50. In the context of these prices- the $1.50 and the first advance for wheat of $1.20-1 believe it is pertinent to make reference to the fact that these moneys are fairly small amounts in comparison with the prices available for wheat, the ultimate payment, even in comparison with the days when the first advance was $1.10. In that period the price of wheat ultimately received by the wheatgrower varied from, again in round figures, $1.25 to $1.35 and the first advance was a gross $1.10. Today at $1.20 first advance the overseas market, the world market price for wheat, is varying somewhere between $2.50 and $3.50. 1 make this reference to draw out or to strengthen the case that there must ultimately, and probably in the near future, be a significant increase in the first advance payable in this industry, a significant increase on 2 counts; because of the inflationary spiral which is affecting the costs in this industry, as in any other industry, and because in the foreseeable future there will be a significant increase in the world price for wheat which must of itself enable a better return to be made to the grower in the first instance. 
It is highly important that the wheat industry in this country remain attractive because it is one of those industries in which our natural advantages are quite superb, in which our history as a producer ranks second to none. The price is to be arrived at from year to year by the implementation of a formula which is quite difficult in appearance but which I believe is a necessary and suitable vehicle because it gives a very specific measure for establishing the price for the following year. In reference to the formula to be used I mention that there is an ingredient which concerns the amount of payment to the groweroperator, and I am sure this is an unfair situation, a situation which should be investigated, and I am sure the Minister will indicate later that it will be. As things stand at the moment, the groweroperator is to be established as a cost factor equal to a standard of payment for a leading hand in the industry based on the 1 968 figures, which are now 70 per cent below the present level. Moreover, I believe it is probably unfair that this sort of cost should be related to his contribution for labour only because the significant thing, surely, is that he is far more than an element of labour in the wheat industry, he is an element of considerable management and scientific capacity. No wheat producer in this country, indeed in any country, can exist today unless he has a considerable measure of achievement in the managerial and scientific fields as well as in the capacity for sheer labour. 
I referred very briefly to the delay that occurred in the payment of 20c in the August period. This was a particularly severe and sad blow to the industry and to all those people and industries that are dependent- and there are many across the countryside and in the metropolitan areas- on the relative affluence of the wheat industry. The failure to make this payment has been excused on many grounds. I have heard that some of those grounds refer to the extremely rough seas that occurred around the Australian coast, particularly the east coast, in the June- July period, making conditions difficult for shipping. I have heard the problem of fuel and bunkering for overseas wheat ships mentioned. It was an extremely sad blow to the industry that this payment should not be available at a time when the export prices of wheat were so buoyant. Provision could and should have been made for that payment within the capacity of the rural credit section of the Reserve Bank, a section which in the case of the wheat industry was not overstrained at all at that particular time. 
I think it is important that not only the members of this Parliament but the people of Australia should understand something of the relative contribution to the cost of bread that the wheat product itself provides. It is fascinating to realise that in the period of less than two and a half years since April 1972 the price of a loaf of bread in Sydney has moved from 23c to 35c; it may move even higher. Of that enormous increase, 55 per cent has been absorbed in the labour content. It is interesting to note that the amount applicable to the wheat consumed in that loaf of bread would, roughly, pay for the slicing and packaging of that loaf. If the farming industry were able to donate all the wheat from which the flour came to bake that loaf, it would still cost the Australian consumer somewhere in the vicinity of 29c or 30c for the loaf. I think it pertinent that we should consider briefly the inroads of inflation on the wheat industry because these are not only significant in the negotiations that have passed but are going to be extremely significant in the negotiations which must come from time to time in the future. 
The costs of labour and fuel in the industry have spiralled, as they have in every other industry. Indeed, the industry in recent years, certainly in the last 10 to 20 years, has become quite highly capital intensive and the cost of equipment, machinery, spare parts and maintenance has spiralled in an enormous manner. These things dictate that in any future consideration of this industry there must be a more realistic approach to the cost-price structure. I am sure that the inflation of the present cost structure in this industry makes it essential that a solution is found which will permit the industry to grow because it is an industry which has one of the greatest potentials in the Australian scene. We have an enormous area of country capable of producing wheat and we have the technique and background to produce it. In the longer term it could well be the most significant of our overseas credit earners. It is, perhaps, one of the most significant areas of balance in the rural economy. If Australia's rural economy is balanced our history shows that there is balance over the entire economy. 
The Opposition parties support these Bills in full. I do not want to take too much time of the Senate but in closing I want to refer very briefly once again to the significance of this industry in the Australian scene. It is of enormous significance over a wide area so far as employment is concerned. Its significance is apparent throughout country towns and throughout the organisations which produce the machinery, market the wheat and service the industry. I refer to the people who produce and spread fertilisers and the people in the chemical industry, the freight industry and our railways. All these people to a marked degree are dependent on a strong wheat industry- a wheat industry which is as affluent as the other industries in this country. I support this legislation because, as I said in the first place, it gives us after hard negotiation a real basis for the immediate future of this most important industry. 
In closing, I would appreciate an assuranceone which I am sure the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  will be able to give- that there will be adequate security for the grower funds which are held aside from year to year. We do not want to talk of amendments designed to create trusts and so forth but we have a measure of concern about the grower funds contributed to this scheme. I am sure the Minister will be able to satisfy us that these funds will be looked after properly.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  on behalf of the Opposition I say that we support the 3 Bills now being discussed which refer to the wheat stabilisation scheme. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration indicate whether moneys for the unemployed are available for the use of councils in the floodravaged Lachlan, Murray, Murrumbidgee, Macquarie and other river valleys in New South Wales? Further, will he indicate whether such moneys can be used to hasten the urgently needed repairs to roads and bridges, in particular, in those areas? Finally, by what manner of application can the councils involved receive the funds? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Even though the Budget is only 2 weeks old, will the Government, as a matter of extreme urgency, consider a reduction in government spending as a means of countering inflation? Is the Government aware that the United States Government, with an inflation rate only half that of Australia, has promised to prune its spending by US$5,400m this financial year? 
I rise to support the amendment that is before the Senate with reference to the Budget papers. It is almost in the form of a censure of a Budget which can do little or nothing other than tend to increase the widespread problems that face the Australian economy and Australian society today. Let me draw the attention of the Senate, and indeed of Australians, to a very significant sentence early in that part of the Budget speech called 'The Budget Setting', which says: 
The relatively subdued conditions in prospect in the private sector provide the first real opportunity we have had to transfer resources to the public sector. 
I believe that that sentence has been referred to more than once and I believe it should be considered by all Australians very much more than once. It is indeed a significant statement. It is a statement which suggests that the Government, through the Budget, is concerned with establishing a different type of Australian society. It suggests that by transferring to the public sector we have started to move towards ideological change rather than towards a change in an economic and social situation. In that very sentence there is the suggestion that control in the eyes of this Government is related directly to ownership. That sentence contains the suggestion that the superstate is the ultimate objective of the Government which is in power in Australia today. Further attention to the Budget in matters of taxation and expenditure confirm the sinister suggestions which are made or held within that sentence. Surely these suggestions are confirmed in the words which the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  spoke not so long ago. In answer to a question concerning industrial unrest and the inflationary rate which was so rabid in this country he said that the Government had gone about as far as it could go within the system. I believe that this is a sinister and dangerous statement. 
The words 'within the system' suggest that there is no solution to be found except by scrapping the system. What is the system? The system is that which has been developed over the entire period of Australia's history. The system is the evolution of the Australian people. It is a system which has been constantly changing and evolving in the progress of this nation. The answer to the problem which surrounds us today is not in scrapping and overthrowing the Australian system and superimposing some system which belongs to some foreign ideology. Perhaps there is some hope in the fact that within the Government there are probably ten or twelve ideas as to how this problem which the country faces can be solved. The suggestion that the system be overthrown may not necessarily be the consensus of Government opinion, but at least it is significant and sinister enough to concern the attention of the Australian people. I ask: What is so attractive in adopting a policy which concerns itself with taking over the resources of the nation into the public sector? What is so attractive about that sort of policy, unless it be an ideological base? 
I suggest that the lot of the vast number of Australians who are unionists, who work in the shops, who are operators of garages, stores and farms and who are professional people- millions of them- is in no way enhanced by substituting for 100,000 or 500,000 employers just one employer. That is the circumstance which confronts us if we take to its logical conclusion the necessity to transfer the resources of the nation to the control, indeed to the ownership of the public sector. I believe this is an attack on the freedom of choice of Australians of both occupation and place of employment. Today in the regrettable circumstance of continuing and increasing unemployment there is a case for the direction of labour as one of the ways in which to overcome the unemployment situation which confronts us. Let us remember that, in the sort of state set-up that is the logical conclusion of this transfer of resources to the public sector, the control and direction of labour, as of every other factor of production, would become the province of the State alone. That indeed is a sinister thought. 
What is so magnificent about creating a monolithic type of state, an all-powerful controller and owner of the country's assets? Surely the story of history is such that it proves time and time again that the greatest exploiter of man and resources is the state. Let us make sure that that does not happen in Australia. I maintain that the basic element of this Budget is the beginning of that sort of circumstance. I believe that the Budget document is much more akin to an ideological document than it is to an economic and social document having proper reference to the problems in the economic and social fields which confront Australia today. 
I refer briefly to the area which is the province of the Department of Urban and Regional Development, that is, decentralisation. As a member of the Senate from New South Wales I have a very definite concern for decentralisation. In the Budget which is before us something approaching 20 per cent of the money of the Department of Urban and Regional Development is to be diverted to the establishment of two or three growth centres. I have no argument with the suggestion that this is one way in which we can establish realistic decentralisation. But the enormous amount of 80 per cent is to be spent in the areas of the large metropolitan parts of the country. If by decentralisation is meant just the movement of the perimeter of the great cities to a point where it is a little further away from the centre, that is not decentralisation at all in the context of the Australian scene. It is not meaningful decentralisation. If these moneys are to be spent in the metropolitan areas of Australia let us spend them to make those areas better places to live in and not bigger places. 
In the area of decentralisation proper I believe that we should establish, through this Government, sufficient funds for the State Governments through their responsible departments to establish tertiary and secondary industries wherever there may be a potential within the States. I shall cite very briefly the performance of the Department of Decentralisation and Development in my State of New South Wales. In a short history of some 9 years and with an extremely tight budget extending to only $68m in that time, it has been able to expand and to assist to expand no fewer than 871 industries. It has helped to move these industries from the cities to country sites and from interstate to country sites. It has helped to develop new industries in country areas. But I believe that even more significant than that is the fact that these industries have been established in no fewer than 170 different locations. This is of great significance if we consider that decentralisation must concern itself with a proper balance of our countryside. Let us face it, in Australia we have an enormous smog free and pollution free area which is the potential host to a great and diversified industrial and primary industrial complex. The fact that these industries have been attracted to 170 different places in New South Wales means that there is the capacity in that State to retain and develop large, medium and small towns which are the social and service centres of an important community. 1 believe that this is inherent in any true picture of decentralisation in the Australian scene. In the future this Government or whoever may be the government should be concerned that State departments which have the expertise, the priorities, and the capacity to do just this have in the Budget the financial backing that is necessary. One cannot talk of decentralisation without reflecting on the circumstances of country people in Australia today. By 'country people' I mean all those people who live outside the metropolitan complexes around the seaboard. I believe that there is a distinct problem in this area due to many causes, but in no small measure due to the ripping away from the primary industries in particular in the 1973 Budget of quite significant areas of tax allowances, deductions, compensation, bounty and so forth. Compensation in the form of tax deductibility for the conservation of soil, water and fodder and investment allowances as they apply particularly to agricultural machinery are not to be viewed as they are sometimes mistakenly regarded and exhibited as just handouts to the rural community. They are far more than that. 
Great significance attaches to the investment allowances, the superphosphate bounty and the equalising subsidy for petrol prices which act as incentives to a nation's capacity to conserve its resources. They are beneficial not only to the farm community. I believe that they involve a number of people immensely in excess of those engaged in farming. They are of direct economic and social importance to the people who make, service and sell machinery; the people who make superphosphate, whether in the country or in the cities around our seaboard; the pilots who spread superphosphate on the land; and to the mechanics and council employees. To all of these people the incentives act to secure their way of life and employment and should be viewed in their total context, not just as handouts to a numerically small section of the community. It is a matter of great regret to me that the Government has not seen fit to reintroduce at least a significant number of these incentives at this time. This Budget was a perfect opportunity to reintroduce them because never before has there been a greater need for incentives to produce and to provide employment than there is today. 
An undertaking to reintroduce? 
-The Opposition certainly would not have acted to destroy the superphosphate bounty. There is little doubt about that. It would have been a basic pan of our performance in government because, let us face it, we were the people who introduced the incentives to produce more, the benefits of which the country sadly needs today. If those incentives were re-instated it would enable increased productivity and increased activity across a wide field, not just on the farms. There would have been a realistic attack on inflation by increasing the goods and services that are so drastically needed. There is an exciting future for the marketing of grain and hopefully of wool, and certainly of minerals and petroleum products. We should make sure that the necessary incentives and compensations are there to enable the total economy to take advantage of that sort of market situation. 
I make only a very broad reference to the tax cuts which, naturally, are acceptable as far as they go. However, it is regrettable that they are of such extent that they will be totally eaten away by inflation within weeks and will not provide what is so drastically needed. They will not provide the degree of satisfaction in the wage and salary earning community that will lessen the constant demand for increased wages and salaries which consistently increase the costs of production. It is in this area that the Budget fails so badly. It is assessed that should wages continue to rise to the extent of 22 per cent in 12 months it would mean an additional rake off to the Government through taxation of not less than 46 per cent. It seems to me that in that circumstance inflation could well be the Government 's business. I trust that it is not but that is the inference readily drawn where an increase in wages of 20 per cent or slightly more will bring about an increase in revenue from taxation of about 46 per cent. 
I make only passing reference to the tax cuts and to government spending. I have already indicated the great fallacy of increasing government spending in the public sector at a time of inflation. I make only passing reference because so many speakers in this debate have placed considerable emphasis on these matters and because of the continuing and proper criticism in newspaper editorials across the country, and indeed, because of the comment of Australians everywhere. I am not sure of the effect of editorial comment on members of the Government. Recently I watched a 'Four Corners' program put on by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In that program the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said in answer to a question that he considered that newspaper editors were fit pieces for a museum. One assumes from that sort of attitude that editorial comment would have little effect on government policy. 
-Perhaps that is so, but I do not think it is fair comment that the editorials in this country are written by people who are fit pieces for a museum. I wish to refer now to one or two areas of taxation that greatly concern me, and I am sure, a vast number of Australians. This Budget introduces for the first time on the Australian scene a capital gains tax, the operation of which at this point is somewhat obscure. 1 think honourable senators opposite will admit that the Government has not yet defined the area in which it will operate. It has been stated that it will probably not come before the Parliament before the autumn session. Assuming it is to be as severe as can be inferred from the Budget papers it will be a disastrous tax to this country across a wide range of activity. It will be disastrous if, in the first place, it hits only an area of increased gain which is due to the application of management skills and capital and labour to an asset, whatever that asset may be, because if that sort of action is to be savagely taxed on top of income tax the incentive to develop the vast resources of this country must be limited quite significantly. But that is not the worst feature of this tax. The worst feature is that if it is, as it appears to be at this moment, a capital gains tax which will apply to virtually a paper figure, it will be a tax on a value which is nothing more or less than inflation. 
It is significant to consider that a $100,000 asset in 20 years time, assuming a 10 per cent annual rate of inflation, would have a written or paper value of $672,000. It would have a capital gain of $572,000. Of course, this is purely an inflationary increase. If this were taxed at the rate suggested and if the same asset happened at that point to pass to beneficiaries through death or to another owner, the total tax commitment on that asset would be 6 1.4 per cent of that figure of $672,000. I suggest that this capital gains tax is disastrous. I believe that there is no real necessity to impose it at all. Unless there is some indexation with reference to the inflationary content of the capital gain envisaged it will be a disastrous tax because, added to estate duties, this sort of tax will result in the total eradication of the small business operator, the small farmer, the plumber in his business, the electrician- any number of small operators and indeed larger operators right throughout the Australian community. It will result in the total eradication of this sort of enterprise within, in all probability, one generation and certainly no more than 2 generations. It would be a tax virtually on all human endeavour. It would attempt to disrupt incentive at a time when the economic and social circumstances of Australia demand that there should be incentive in many fields in order at least in part to overcome the inflationary spiral in which we find ourselves. I believe that a capital gains tax, if it has an area with which it is justifiably referable, should be in that area which applies to purely speculative gain- an area in which there has been no contribution in order to development. But outside that area a capital gains tax has little or no proper place of application. I say in passing that the question of estate duties, on balance, has received virtually no treatment at all in this Budget. This is an area in which I believe we could well see the Federal Government abstain from having any involvement at all, because this iniquitous tax is such that it is expensive to collect. It represents less than 0.9 per cent of total revenue. It is destructive of a nation's incentive and of the continuity of a nation's productive effort. It causes the dismemberment of economic units. In fact, it is a tax that is anti-development in a country which sadly needs development. Prior to the abolition, hopefully, of this tax surely it would be reasonable, in view of the inflationary circumstances of the last few years, to adjust the rates which are applicable in estate duty. It may be interesting to observe that an asset which was valued at $50,000 some 20 years ago would today, in all probability, be valued at about $200,000. But the amount of estate duty applicable to that asset is not 4 times that which was applicable; it is more like 14 times that which was applicable. I suggest quite seriously that the Government should look at its responsibility to write into the estate duty rates that which would recognise the inflationary nature of things. 
There are many areas about which I should like to speak briefly but, in closing, I will mention only one or two of them. In the field of defence, I believe that once again this Government has abrogated its responsibility. It has abrogated its responsibility to develop a capacity which would give us the sort of standing that we need and should be able to offer to our friends and neighbours. This is a serious situation. I believe that the only attitude that appears to be clear is some sort of servile attitude to those states which hold the master-state concept. 
I say briefly that it is an iniquitous thing that the tax allowance for education should have been reduced from $400 to $150 a child. In a situation of spiralling inflation, reducing the amount to $150 will be an attack on practically everybody who has children at school. There is no question here of attacking children at independent schools, if that is what honourable senators opposite want to attack. If they want a situation in which there is no freedom of choice in the area of education, as in any other area, that is their business. But in this instance they are attacking not only that section of the community which sends its children to independent schools; they are attacking practically everybody who has children at school. Certainly in country areas in New South Wales very often $150 would be eaten up in the cost of bus fares for children travelling to and from school, let alone in the cost of text books, school clothes and so on. 
We are living in a world that is crying out for more food. We are living in a world that is crying out for more fuel, but this Government is literally chasing away our capacity to find and develop sources of minerals and energy. We are living in a world that is crying out for more clothing. In this inflationary whirlpool I believe that it is criminal to bring down a Budget which does nothing but ideologically transfer resources to the public sector and which provides no incentive whatsoever for Australians to produce. Indeed,  Dr Cairns  has said that we must produce our way out of inflation. I have no hesitation whatsoever in supporting this amendment of censure of a Budget which I believe does nothing but create greater difficulties in difficult circumstances. 
I present 3 petitions, identical in wording and from 2, 10 and 20 citizens of Australia respectively in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the evidence submitted to the royal commission on petroleum in Sydney last week emphasising the critical fuel supply position throughout the country, will the Minister undertake that the Government will use its maximum influence to ensure an urgent increase in supplies, in particular of distillate and gasoline to secure full scale operation in harvest, soil preparation, sowing, factory and council operations in the immediate and continuing future? 
I present the following petition from 101 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth- 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to a statement by the  Deputy  Prime Minister that the Government could withdraw the 5 per cent deposit restriction on overseas investment in Australian industry. I ask the Leader of the Government whether the Prime Minister- in fact the entire Labor Ministry- have alleged for the past 2 or 3 years that the former Government had sold out Australia to foreign investors? Does the foreshadowed withdrawal of the deposit restriction make hollow these allegations and prove that overseas investment appears essential if Australia's resources potential is to be fully realised? Does the Labor Government now demonstrate that it agrees with the Liberal Party and Country Party philosophy and will encourage overseas investment? 
I ask my question of the Minister for Agriculture. In view of the present buoyancy of the wheat market and reports that Australia is to support the establishment of an international system of grain reserves, I ask the Minister whether there are any indications, now that wheat quotas have been abandoned, of a major swing to wheat production with a corresponding decline in the output of other traditional products such as meat and wool. Does the Minister encourage such a swing? In view of the Minister's reply to  Senator Young  earlier today, will Australian production of phosphate rock significantly lower the price of superphosphate to the Australian farmer? Is the Minister implying, as I hope he is, that a much needed substantial increase in the level of the first advance payment is this Government's policy? 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Defence recall informing the Senate in April last year of the progress made by teams from the Department of Defence and the Department of Air engaged in evaluating the Mirage aircraft replacement scheme? Did he say in May 1973 in reply to a question in the Senate that the Government was anxious to get a recommendation soon? Can the Minister now say, 19 months later, when an announcement of the Government's decision on a replacement aircraft can be expected. 
I preface my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate by referring to the Refrigeration Compressors 
Bounty Bill. Is the Minister aware of the impending consequences of significant unemployment in sections of the industry, particularly in a large decentralised New South Wales area, and indeed of probable higher costs to the Australian consumer if the restrictive nature of the Bill's bounty recommendation is not quickly altered? Will the Minister indicate why the Bill has been so long delayed in its presentation to the Senate and whether its rapid appearance before this chamber will now take place? 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the honourable the  president  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there issuch urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-Will the Minister for Agriculture explain to the Senate so as to clear up confusion within his own Department, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Foreign Affairs, rural industry, the Press gallery and the Australian community, let alone the United Nations World Food Congress, what is Australia's commitment in food aid as pledged by him at the World Food Congress. What form will this food aid take? Will it be solely wheat or mixed grains or will it involve meat in processed form? Is it true that the Minister now asserts that our commitment made at the World Food Congress was only approximately $ 1 9m? If that is the case, why was a note bearing the Minister's letterhead pinned on the Press gallery board this week saying that the commitment was $30m? Did the Minister in an interview on Sunday last say that the commitment was $30m? In view of this disparity, will the Minister advise the Senate of the true position, re-check his figures and recheck the price he recently paid for a pair of gumboots? 
I rise to claim the attention of the Senate very briefly while I refer to a matter which I believe is of some importance and substance and which is contained in a question I addressed to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  in this chamber this morning. I believe the question was an important question. I draw attention not only to the substance of the question involved but also to the somewhat summary and I believe unworthy reply that 1 received on that occasion. 
-I have asked that he be advised. I believe that the Government, the Opposition and indeed all Australians have a right to expect proper clarification of a matter raised in a responsible substance-filled question asked here this morning and particularly such clarification from one whom I know must be classified as a responsible Minister. Because I do not think this happened I draw the attention of the Senate to this problem. Briefly and very shortly I shall recall the main substance of the question and the chief thrust of the somewhat brief and irrelevant reply that I received. The reply, I believe, did neither justice to the Minister nor to the question. I asked: 
What is Australia's commitment in food aid as pledged by him at the World Food Congress? What form will this food aid take? Will it be solely wheat and mixed grain or will it involve meat in processed form? Is it true that the Minister now asserts that our commitment made at the World Food Congress was only approximately $A19m? If that is the case, why was a note bearing the Minister's letterhead pinned on the Press gallery board this week saying that the commitment was $30m? Did the Minister in an interview on Sunday last say that the commitment was $30m.? 
I do not believe that any part of that particular question can be ruled off as briefly as the Minister ruled it off this morning. 
I turn now to the significant matter, and that is the nature of the Minister's reply. When he rose he described the question as being unworthy of reply, as being facile and stupid. Facile, amongst many things, means easy, fluent or flexible. I am quite sure that the Minister did not intend to be complimentary to the question or to myself so I presume he did not have in mind that sort of definition of the word 'facile'. The word 'stupid' which was the other adjective involved means, among other things, unintelligent and uninteresting. As far as unintelligent is concerned, I do not believe that the matters referred to required no intelligence. Although perhaps from a somewhat biased angle, I suggest that even the questioner may not have been unintelligent. But be that as it may, I am sure that the Minister can answer this section of the problem merely by saying, as he has on several occasions to me with reference to other questions, that it is just a matter of judgment. Of course, it is a matter of judgment whether this question or the questioner were unintelligent. 
As for the second part of the definition of the word 'stupid'- that is 'uninteresting'- I think that is incredibly bad. I cannot really believe that the Minister sincerely thinks that the subject matter of this question is uninteresting. Once again let me refer to the major matter of the question. I asked:  . . what is Australia's commitment in food aid as pledged by him - 
That is the Minister- 
At the World Food Congress? 
Is this a facile or stupid question? Is it uninteresting? Is it irrelevant? I continued: 
Will it be solely wheat and mixed grain or will it involve meat in processed form? 
Is that a facile or stupid question? I further asked: ls it true that the Minister now asserts that our commitment made at the World Food Congress was only approximately $ 19m? 
Is that facile or stupid? The question continues: 
If that is the case, why was a note bearing the Minister's letterhead pinned on the Press gallery board this week saying that the commitment was $30m? Did the Minister in an interview on Sunday last say that the commitment was $30m? 
Was it $ 19m or was it $30m? I do not believe that any section of the main body of the question is facile or stupid. I believe that the whole question is of supreme significance to the Australian people. If there is any facile or flexible quality in the Minister's reference to the question then it can only be flexible with regard to his attitude to mathematics which, in his assessment, seems to vary between a figure of $ 19m and $30m. Surely there is quite a significant area of flexibility there. I am concerned because I believe we should be thinking in terms- my Party, the Australian Country Party thinks in these terms- of a food stockpile around the world to make, in some way, a real contribution to the hungry nations. So I am convinced that no part of this question was facile or stupid. I regret that that should have been the reply of a responsible Minister to what I believe was generally conceded to be a sensible and important question. 
-Would the Minister for Agriculture agree that the inflationary cost situation has hit the Austraiian wheat industry at least as severely as any other industry? Would he agree also that $1.20 per bushel is now an unrealistically low first advance when the world market price of wheat is around $4 per bushel, and that the ratio of $1.20 to $4 compares most unfavourably with the position in many years which saw the ratio at about $1.10 to $1.35? Would the Minister, having a view to these circumstances, the current need to inspire production to meet the demands of a starving world and the liquidity problems confronting producers, undertake as a matter of urgency to press for a $1.80 first payment for the current 1974-75 crop? 
I rise somewhat late in this debate, when doubtless most of the attitudes and priorities have been thoroughly aired, to support, as briefly and as pertinently as I can, the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson which suggests that this immensely important consideration should be deferred until the autumn session of 1 975. In doing so I am not suggesting that there is no need for change in this immensely important area of human relationships and of social standards. On the contrary I believe that there is such a need but I support the deferral of this ultimate consideration because of the immensity of the task that confronts us as a body of senators and that confronts the whole Australian community. I believe that, in view of the extraordinary number of amendments that confront us and the various interpretations, we need time in order that society itself, the community, may become fully aware of the changes in the mere technicalities of divorce procedures consequent upon this proposed piece of legislation. I believe we need time too for the community and ourselves to become fully aware of the sort of consequences that this legislation, important though it be, would have on the Australian society. 
We can surely apply but one main and basic yardstick when we are considering measures as fundamental to society as this. That yardstick must be the evaluation of the legislation in terms of its contribution to the dignity and the security of the family unit in the Australian society. We must surely ask ourselves what this legislation contributes to the betterment of the relationships between men and women in the total Australian community. We must ask ourselves more than that. What does the legislation in fact contribute to the position of children disillusioned by the circumstances of the problems with which this legislation tends to grapple? These are the yardsticks and the problems which, of their own immensity, require that we as individuals and as a community take our time before we decide on the sort of legislation that we believe must be appropriate. 
In the course of this quite long debate I have been impressed by a number of things that have been said. For instance, I have been impressed by  Senator James  McClelland who said at one stage that divorce knows no victors. No one will argue with that conception. Of course, divorce knows no victors. It results in broken dreams, broken families and disillusioned children. So it is a true statement; it is a truism. He further said- and I believe it is significant- that too difficult a divorce law can contribute towards immorality. I believe that of its very nature that statement has a very large measure of truth in it. But no matter how important and how true those phrases may be, and no matter how impressive they may be, in the consideration of this Bill we must not let them override the matter of ultimate importance which relates to the contribution of the legislation to the strength of the marriage contract and to the strength of the position of the family in the Australian society. 
It must be the province and objective of legislation which we ultimately approve to firm the position of the family, to preserve the position of the family as basic to our society. We must concern ouselves so far as this legislation is concerned not only with that end which relates to the dissolution of marriage but perhaps far more pertinently to all that period which is the prelude to what hopefully will not become a dissolution. It is in that area of family law that we must view the real importance of the legislation before us. 
I was impressed with the contributions made in this debate by a number of the members of the legal profession. I refer to  Senator Missen  and  Senator James  McClelland who, among others, contributed a great deal in enunciating the legal attitudes, the legal facts and considerations, of this proposed law. That went a long way, as one would expect them to do because this is thennatural or professional province, in enunciating the actual legal form and its meaning to the remaining members of the Senate and, hopefully, to the community. But during this debate I have been impressed also with the contributions which have evolved this as a human problem. In this area I think primarily of senators such as  Senator Baume, Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson,  Senator Devitt  and others who made a great contribution in this debate from the angle of the human problem and human concern. 
I would be the first to agree that some form of in-depth change is needed and that the Bill and its proposed amendments, has within it a measure of extremely worthwhile features. But we must be certain- this is the important thingnot to implement legislation which may radically change the conception of the marriage contract, particularly in this Bill where marriage bears no definition. The fact that it bears no definition could have some extremely strange consequences as time goes by. We must not tend to drive the thin edge of a wedge into a situation that may destroy the concept, perhaps unwittingly, of the family unit as being a supreme unit in the Australian society, as indeed it is in many societies around the world, and as it has been for some thousands of years. 
If we as a body of senators in this place are honest, the immense content of this Bill is reason enough to hold awhile in order to consider the total implications. I suggest that all we need is a real measure of honesty. Surely we have to say to ourselves as senators that we, at least in the majority of cases, are not totally aware of the full implications of such a vast measure as is before us this afternoon. The Bill before us has increased in physical size since the middle of October by some 33 and 1/3 per cent. It has increased from 41 pages of fine type to about 55 pages of fine type. That in itself is a very considerable area needing added investigation. Just as I believe that honourable senators in this chamber must have time to evaluate thoroughly the total involvement of this legislation, so must the Australian community which has had far less opportunity than we have had to evaluate the immense changes that may follow to a community from the passage of legislation such as this unless it has been totally and thoroughly investigated. I believe that the views of the Senate, and certainly those of the Australian community, have not yet totally crystallised into a strong, complete and logical determination as to the changes that this sort of legislation may well bring about in the Australian community. 
The Bill concerns itself with what it describes as family law. Whether or not it is exactly that is perhaps a matter of conjecture. I have no query about the suggestion that there should be family law in our community- I believe there is- and that it is a most important area of law in Australian society. The yardstick in this circumstance must be the promotion of marriage and the family as the basic facets of a free society. I believe, as I said earlier, that much of this Bill has real value but we must be totally sure that we are not implementing legislation, perhaps unwittingly, which has within it the possibility of establishing circumstances and a society of which we have not even dreamed, a society which the great majority of Australians would in no way approve. 
In this respect I recall reading recently a report of a speech made by the wife of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It was reported on 9 February in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph'.  Mrs Whitlam  was reflecting on the year 2001 and the sort of society we would have at that time. That is only 27 years away. Hopefully, most of us will still be here to see it arrive and, perhaps, to see it out.  Mrs Whitlam  referred to children of that time as being brought up in a kibbutz style situation, as children of the community rather than as members of a family. This is a serious and immense change to the concept which is traditional and basic not only to Australian society but to societies throughout the free world. Further,  Mrs Whitlam  said, with regard to marriage, that she thought that within a period of about a quarter of a century there would be fewer marriages, that marriage would be less common but would be more secure, and that marriage would be confined more to women who were in their thirties. This also is a somewhat revolutionary concept. Does she imagine perhaps that there will be a decade and a half or approaching that of adulthood which will be a period of experimentation and research? Is this the logical conclusion from this sort of statement? 
I bring these things to the notice of the Senate this afternoon only because I believe that they are the sorts of revolutionary changes in attitude to society of which we must be fully aware and which we must ensure gain no place in the sort of legislation that we may pass in this House. In recent times, along with many other members of this Parliament, I have had an opportunity to meet and to mix with a large number of people, men and women of varying religious and political attitudes, and it has become more and more evident to me that in reference to this piece of legislation there is in their minds a determination that they need a full measure of time to examine something which is basic to them, something which must come with a measure of change but something which they are not prepared to admit in its present immense and virtually unresearched form. This appears to me to be very largely the attitude of an immense crosssection of our society. I believe it is essential in all honesty that there must be time for senators and the community alike to examine the extraordinary depth of this sort of legislation and its total and ultimate consequences on the society which we have evolved and in which we live. 
The Bill does more than just provide for a change in the law of divorce. It will make, I believe, a fundamental alteration to the very nature of the marriage contract and in doing so it must change the entire pattern of family life in the Australian society and such major issues ought to receive the careful assessment of all the members of our community in the light of the best possible research and evidence. The public, let me say once again, is not prepared and does not feel itself able fully and responsibly to evaluate the enormouse issues that confront us in this legislation. Whilst admitting the value of the work and complimenting the committee of the Senate which investigated this piece of legislation let me draw attention just briefly to the fact that this Committee, because of lack of time, was able to meet only 3 times. The Committee. I understand, examined evidence from only 7 people. Some of those people may indeed have been sponsors of the very Bill; I do not know. 
-I do not know.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson says they were. 
-Thank you. This is the sort of evidence on which we are basing our advice: A committee at 3 meetings took evidence from 7 people significantly involved in the very Bill which this Senate is debating. Let me once again draw the attention of this chamber to the fact that we are confronted not only with a 55-page Bill, not only with an immensely important piece of philosophy, but also with 92 amendments, plus 13 other amendments and plus amendments from  Senator Laucke  and  Senator Baume.  We are confronted with all those things and we are asked to consider these measures and to get the business done with. I suggest to you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  and to the members of this Senate that it would be an act of total irresponsibility to think that we should pass legislation as immense as this which involves a mass of amendments that have to be properly and fully considered in such a short time. It is ridiculous and it is irresponsible. Only last week the Women's Electoral Lobby in Victoria made further submissions on this very measure. Yet here we are trying desperately to race it through perhaps to serve the purpose of a very small percentage of people in the Australian community who want the Bill virtually at any price so long as it is quickly. 
Let me say in conclusion, that I believe the bill is of extreme importance. I believe it is a measure of change that we must grapple with and I am equally strongly convinced that it is a measure of change that we must grapple with over a reasonable period of time so that this Senate itself and the Australian community shall become fully aware of all the consequences for the near future and indeed for the continuing future. 
I present the following petition from 27 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Is the Minister for Agriculture aware of the volume of telegrams and letters being received by members of Parliament from wheat farmers, urgently seeking an increase in the $1.20 first advance payment for the current crop to $ 1.80? Has the Minister himself received many such representations? In view of the numerical strength and the logic of the request, would he care to revise his statement made in answer to my question to him yesterday that wheat growers have never been better off in terms of cash in the pocket? Has the Minister overlooked the fact that wheat growers are not exempt from the economic recession brought about by his Government and that $1.20 a bushel represents a significant decrease rather than an increase in real money terms? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It refers to the distribution of the $2m allocated to advance the United Nations proposal to make 1975 'International Women's Year'. I refer to a submission by the Co-ordinating Women's Group, a large politically unaligned group of women concerned to organise forums throughout Australia where women can meet and exchange views on basic social and economic matters. I ask that the Minister seek to hasten an allocation of the money sought by this significant and growing group of women in a worthy national cause. Indeed, he may even add the weight of his promotion to their objectives so that they may, the sooner, make their contributions to the aforementioned coming International Women's Year and beyond. 
I rise to make a few remarks in this debate on this Bill to grant financial assistance to local governing bodies. Whilst I and my Party, in common with the rest of the Opposition, support the measures in this Bill I want to indicate as briefly and as clearly as I can why we support it. At the same time I would hope to analyse it in some depth and to indicate those areas of it which I believe it will be necessary to change as time goes by. Basically we support this Bill because of the urgency of need that exists today throughout local government areas and indeed State government areas for that matter in Australia. There is an extreme urgency of need and this Bill confers some $56. 3m on local governing bodies without strings attached so far as the expenditure of that money is concerned but, of course, there are the indirect and damaging strings relating to the capacity and in fact the right of local government bodies to decide on their levels of rating. This is a significant and important string. But having granted the money, there is no string to its actual expenditure. 
I wonder why the need for extra moneys in this form is so urgent today. The need comes from many directions. Obviously the first cause of the need for larger amounts of moneys in local government areas is the snowballing, the spiralling inflation that has been occuring in this country for the past 23 months. I want to make the point that contrary to the somewhat commonly heralded remarks, the inflation which is besetting local government, as it is every other individual, industry and commerce in this country, is not an imported situation. The inflation that is creating the urgency of this need is an inflation which has in fact grown from 4 per cent to something in the vicinity of 25 per cent or 30 per cent in 23 months and it has been literally nurtured within this land. It is an inflation that has largely come about by a constantly spiralling situation in the wage and salary field. It has been added to by an extremely high rate of industrial unrest, causing at this crucial time a falling away of goods and services and indeed it has been aided and abetted by the attempted transfer of funds from the private to the public sector in this economy- a transfer which fortunately in this circumstance has been recognised as unfortunate, as probably the wrong economic measure, and has been at least in some degree arrested. 
So much for the inflationary situation as marking the urgency of the need for this additional money in local government areas. It is a situation which has brought to these bodies a great increase in the cost of new equipment, a great increase in the cost of wages and salaries within their provinces and indeed in the maintenance and development of their plant wherever they may operate. Beyond this, it is abundantly clear that local government needs increasing funds because in the unfortunate circumstances of unemployment it is in these areas that we normally find a real capacity to absorb usefully and constructively a significant number of unemployed workers and because of this circumstance there is an even greater need for increased funds in the local government area at this point. 
There are other causes accentuating the urgency of this need and they are causes outside the province of government but they nevertheless do determine the necessity for increased funds in this area. I refer to such things as the incredibly wet and stormy periods that have occurred in such a large area of Australia in the last 6 to 8 months. They have done immeasurable damage to road and to communication systems in the country and consequently have placed on local government an even greater urgency. The problems have been added to unquestionably by the loads that traverse these roadways and bridges- loads which increase not only in weight but also in frequency. If you add to these needs the urgency of need in this circumstance for local government, if you add to this the realisation that the ratepayers themselves have been stretched virtually to breaking point in an attempt to match the ever increasing costs and the ever increasing demands that are laid upon local government, you can certainly realise the extreme need for funds such as those referred to in this Bill which provides on recommendations from the Grants Commission some $56m even though that may be a relatively thin amount when stretched over some 802 councils in Australia. 
The fact that these funds are not tied moneys so far as their expenditure is concerned is a matter on which the Government should, I believe, be complimented. I believe it is tremendously important as time goes by that more and more moneys made available to local government and to State governments should in fact not have strings attached to them, for only in this way are we really going to involve the judgment and capacity of the people on the spot. This is the purpose of State and local government and the more money that is available to them without a tight measure of control the better they are able to accept the priorities of their areas, the better they are able to perform the tasks for there is an involvement and a judgment of the people on the spot. This has been a significant characteristic of Australian development over the years. 
Very briefly let met say that in this legislation the Grants Commission has set out, as I understand it, to iron out the inequalities that it may find from one area to another. These inequalities stem, I believe, from revenue raising capacity and expenditure disabilities. These are a proper measure of the problem. They are a proper measure that must be taken into account when trying to establish some form of rating, some form of justification for a specific payment. The ideology of this sort of legislation is the ideology relating to equalisation. The method of it is in some way to use the expenditure and revenue differentials and, by relating those to the needs of like areas, come up with some measuring stick to apply to a sum of money and to come out with a grant that is to be applicable to each of the various local governing bodies in this country. To this point it is extremely good. I issue a serious word of warning. When we equalise something we must be tremendously careful, I suggest, not to equalise downwards and not to disregard the standards at the top and ultimately come to an average which is probably well below the average which may have formerly existed. This is the great problem with equalisation. There is always a tendency that equalisation will provide ultimately a movement to equalise downwards. 
I refer to the fact that almost one council in ten in Australia received no grant and that significant numbers of councils received very small grants. In this sort of legislation we must not penalise performance. I am certain that this is one of the bad elements of the working of the 
Commission through this Bill. I refer to the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  in his second reading speech: 
Councils are taking a new look at their immediate neighbours and at councils in other parts of the country to assess and compare the standard of their own municipal services with those of other councils. This wider view will benefit and strengthen local government. 
I sincerely hope that the Minister is right. I fear that when a local government area looks just across its boundary and finds that it has received nothing and its neighbour has received $ 100,000 it will say to itself! Why has this occurred? In many cases it becomes obvious that it has received nothing and its neighbour has received $100,000 basically because it has been more efficient in its attitude, in its expenditure, in its representation and in its use of ratepayers' money, which is the real province of local government. 
I make the point that there is a real possibility that this sort of looking across the fence at what happened to the council next door will not tend to raise the standards in local government development and maintenance but will tend to lower them in the hope, perhaps, that the council which received nothing will in the relatively near future receive grants. The yardstick by which we measure these things must not be related totally to the capacity to raise revenue. We must find a way in which that yardstick can be related to efficiency. If this sort of legislation and this sort of financial assistance to local government bodies is such that it will tend to put a penalty on performance and it will not be related to efficiency, it will not in the long term or even in the short term prove totally successful. 
In this area the Commission is a relatively new event. It has expressed the view: 
The short time span available for the formulation of grants for 1974-75 resulted in many shortcuts being taken. However, many lessons have been learned and these will be taken into account in the future. The operations of the Commission in this field are regarded as evolutionary, and the first attempt was very much a trial. 
We shall certainly be watching for effective evolution. We certainly hope that an effective form of evolution will occur. Let me draw attention once again to the fact that it is a good thing that this money is available and that its expenditure as such is not tied. In most Government grants to States and other bodies at the moment there are ever increasing ties. I am reminded of the field of education, where ties have applied to something like 50 per cent of the money that is made available at this time. There is a great urgency of need for this sort of extra money in the local government area. I believe that we must be extremely careful lest we allow to develop a situation which may well tend to destroy efficiency and to put a penalty on the efficiency on which the future of effective State and local government depends. We support the Bill. 
-Does the Minister for Agriculture agree that the liquidity position of beef producers is becoming increasingly serious? If so, why has the Minister withdrawn his submission to Cabinet on the provision of carry-on finance for the beef industry? ls it correct that that submission has been withdrawn because the Minister is sceptical of the principle of providing carry-on finance for the beef industry? Is the Minister in favour of the provision of carry-on finance for the beef industry, particularly for such great beef producing areas as Queensland? Does he back the unanimous Caucus Resources Committee resolution that finance should be provided? Is it correct now to assume that because of the Minister's decision to withdraw his submission no Government action on the provision of carry-on finance for the beef industry will be made until well into next year? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the Prime Minister's attempt to blame the Treasury for Australia's economic malaise. I ask: When a leader, be he in government, business or any other enterprise, shifts responsibility down the line for his own incompetence, is he not inviting dismissal? Why is it, if the fault lies with Treasury, that the Prime Minister has taken 2 years to identify the trouble? Is this not just another instance of the Government's casting about for excuses it hopes to be able to sell to a disillusioned electorate? 
I must support  Senator Baume  's amendment. We have discussed this important Bill, particularly this most important clause 26, at some length and in some depth, and so we should. Out of all that discussion it seems to me that in  Senator Baume  's amendment we have a real measure of compromise. It incorporates quite a lot of the attitude of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  but at the same time I believe it accepts considerable areas of the amendments moved by Senators Laucke,  Sir Kenneth  Anderson, Durack and Chaney. I believe that the period of 2 years is reasonable insofar as it rules out the possibility inherent in such a short initial period of 12 months of marriage becoming nothing more than a period of experiment. To enable a couple who may well have been married only a few days to choose to part and some 12 months later be divorced permits, I believe, in this area of contract which is basic to our society, a lack of responsibility which ill befits legislation from this Parliament. I think 2 years is sufficient time. After all, it represents a very considerable reduction from 5 years. It permits sufficient time for there to be retained within the marriage contract, within marriage itself and the concept of the family, a real measure of responsibility. I believe that is what marriage is all about. 
We already have ruled out, perhaps unfortunately, the question of another ground to cater for the areas of cruelty in which there should be a way for dissolution to become possible in a much shorter period. We ruled this out under the no fault concept. 1 believe it is somewhat naive to assume that there is no fault in anything. Fault must exist, whether it be 90 parts to 10, 60 parts to 40 or 50 parts each way. There must be fault. We are naive because ultimately in this legislation that sort of fault will be revealed. 
However, be that as it may,  Senator Baume  's amendment which is before us and which I support suggests in the first place that 2 years provides a greater and proper area of responsibility. 
Most importantly, the second part of his amendment is such that divorce or dissolution within a 12 months period of separation or after such a period of separation is also possible on the very reasonable and proper ground that it should be sought. Evidence suggests that it will be sought in the great majority of cases by both parties. After listening to the depth and breadth of this discussion I find I must firmly support  Senator Baume  's amendment because I think it is a realistic and responsible compromise in a most important piece of legislation. 
I rise to say briefly that along with my Party I oppose this Bill in its present form. It contains no fewer than 34 specific points and I am somewhat surprised and disappointed that such a massive Bill as this should come before us at this time when on 1 1 April this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in a Press conference: 'There will be no amendments of the electoral laws under my Government in the next Parliament other than those which are set out in the policy speech'. The Labor Party's policy speech made no reference to changing the preferential system. I wanted to make the point that I am surprised and disappointed that in those circumstances and in view of that statement we are confronted with a Bill which has so many parts to it. 
Perhaps that is the reason. A system of first past the post or optional preferential, call it what you will, basically gets around in logic to assuming that everything is either black or white. Naturally we all know and must admit that this is not the situation. This sort of attitude will construct a system in which minority views and minority parties virtually have no place and in which the total scene resolves itself into a battle of the giants. Consequently I do not believe that this really contributes anything to an effective democracy. It has been shown in many places on many occasions that a first past the post system, or a system of optional preferential voting which is perhaps a prelude to first past the post, is a form of voting which has elected minority governments on many occasions. I have in mind the present Labor Government in the United Kingdom which is in office after having polled 37 per cent of the votes. I am sure that that is not a result which the Australian Government would suggest was a true reflection of the feelings of the people or one which was giving to those people a proper measure of representation. This system was tried, as  Senator Wood  said, in Queensland in the 1930s and when it last operated there, in 1941, 1 notice that with something like 5 1 per cent of the votes the government of that day was elected with 66 per cent of the seats. Had this sort of system prevailed for the last Federal election in Australia 49 per cent of the votes would have won 58 per cent of the seats. The fact that came from the 1974 election was that with 49 per cent of the votes the Labor Party became the Government, having won 51 per cent of the seats. I do not think we could get much closer to a proper and fair representation of the people than that. Whilst looking through these many points- there are 34 of them in this Bill- 1 find that perhaps I would put a cross beside only two or three of them and put a tick beside most of the others, with perhaps a few question marks against some. But I am not prepared to accept those two or three crosses and I am sure that if those particular provisions were taken out they would, from a Government point of view, virtually destroy the Bill. So with those few remarks I indicate that I oppose this Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture and I refer to the Government's recognition of steep increases in the wheat industry's cost structure, evidenced in its decision to increase the home consumption price to $2.27 a bushel from the end of December. Does not this price still reflect an industry subsidy to the Australian consumer of some $2 a bushel? Again I ask whether the Minister will impress upon the Government the urgency of increasing the current first advance payment to growers to $1.80 a bushel. Does he dispute that apart from spiralling wage costs the wheat grower faces all the other steep increases, such as in capital equipment, maintenance, fertiliser and transport costs? Has the Government not virtually admitted by the home consumption price increase that the present early return to growers of a gross $ 1.60 a bushel in 12 months is totally inadequate and that an increase is not only justified but also imperative in the light of current circumstances? 
I rise to support the amendments and to speak in this debate on the 4 cognate Bills before us, the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1974 and the 3 following Bills. I wish to make various observations on them and to preface my remarks by saying that I am in total agreement with the wide-ranging criticism promoted here last night and again this morning by  Senator Carrick  of the various taxation provisions in these Bills. I shall refer briefly to a few of those taxation provisions. When I chose to say a few words on the passing of these Bills through the Senate I felt, having looked at the sort of taxation measures that are part of this Government's economic attitude, that I should attempt to find some sort of background or basis or yardstick by which I could measure the many taxation proposals. As I wondered about that sort of yardstick I found perhaps ironically but to my surprise, that the yardstick was contained in an important speech made very recently in Melbourne by none other than the Honourable Frank Crean, the Australian Government Treasurer. 
In that speech the Treasurer made some remarks and references to the standards of an economy and the things that make an economy work, and those remarks are a truly significant background against which to judge some of the taxation measures that we are looking at in the Senate today. When we read the extremely accurate economic assessment of the Honourable Frank Crean we must wonder whether the accuracy of his economic attitude and his knowledge of economic theory and of the things that make an economy work could be the reason that he is unfortunately very shortly to cease to be the Treasurer. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I said how fully I am in agreement with the wide ranging criticism that was delivered by  Senator Carrick  with reference to so many elements of this tax legislation. I said further that I had been looking for some sort of measuring stick against which we could discuss these Bills and that I had, perhaps somewhat ironically found that measuring stick in what I believe was a very fine speech from an economic point of view, delivered recently by the Federal Treasurer, the Honourable Frank Crean. Indeed it was a fine speech. I shall mention some of the major features of that speech in just a short while. It seemed to me to indicate his recognition of the basic economic theory that is needed for an economy such as ours to survive and develop and, indeed, for it to recover from the disastrous circumstances in which it finds itself today. 
It seemed also to reveal to me that whilst the Federal Treasurer had indicated a very fine concern for the realities of economic theory in our economy, this concern was to be contrasted against that of the incoming Treasurer who may be more concerned, as I believe much of the taxation material is concerned, with matters which are basically ideological rather than economic and social. I would like to draw the attention of the chamber to one or two of the things that were revealed by the Federal Treasurer in Melbourne so recently.  Mr Crean  said, amongst other things: 
The major cause of price increases in Australia during the past year are not to be found in external factors. We have suffered less than most countries in the oil price escalation. Our problem is due to demand and cost pressures . . . 
It is significant indeed that the Treasurer should have made such a statement, for we are constantly being reminded that the inflationary tragedy in our economy is a world wide disease, and the presumption is that it is contagious and that in Australia 's case it is an imported situation. The facts are, as the Treasurer recognises, that inflation in this country has been nurtured by the economic and social attitudes of the Federal Government. Indeed, it has been in large measure due to the constant escalation of wages and salaries over the past 2 years. It has been increased by the ever growing unemployment. Industrial unrest has caused an ever lessening production of goods and services being chased by more and more money in volume. Indeed, in the second of the three Budgets of the last 6 months it became evident that the Government's policy is to transfer in this circumstance large measures of resources from the private to the public sector. The Government intends to increase expenditure in the public sector by 32.4 per cent. Surely this can only increase the hazardous inflationary situation in which we find ourselves.  Mr Crean  further said: 
Energies are directed to enlarging certain slices of the national cake rather than the size of the cake. Unless size is increased, the whole exercise becomes part of a zero sum in which one group's gain is another's loss. 
Surely this is an extremely accurate assessment of the position in Australia today. Surely we are witnessing what is virtually an ideological operation in which a cake is being cut into different sized pieces instead of attention being given to the matter that needs the entire and total attention of this economy, of this society, and I refer to the matter of increasing the size of that cake. I believe that the Federal Treasurer remarked very accurately on a circumstance that is related almost totally to ideology and not to the economic theory of the matter. Indeed, he went on further to say: 
Readiness to invest in plant and equipment is a vital sinew of economic growth. 
Who can deny it? I ask honourable senators: In what way does the taxation situation that confronts the Australian people give any form of incentive that will lead to a strengthening of the vital sinew of economic growth- investment in plant and equipment? These are the very things that involve themselves with the production of more goods and services, the very things that involve themselves with an increase in employment rather than the snowballing of the unemployment situation in this country today.  Mr Crean  said: 
Shorter hours, more leisure, better environments, more consumer purchasing power need an increase in the amount of capital employed relative to labour- a capital deepening in fact. 
Of course, this is so. Those objectives are most attractive, but they cannot be realised unless we create through our economic policies the sort of incentive that is necessary to increase the productive capacity of this economy. This can be done only in the sort of circumstances that exist today by a deepening of the capital involvement in production. That is the sort of circumstance that finds through lack of incentive very little, if any, possibility of being realised in the near future. There is regrettably an enormous amount of uncertainty in the Australian economy today, and this of itself is destructive to the area of production and employment with which we must all be involved. Everyone will accept that a normal measure of risk taking is the proper and natural province of a free enterprise society, but I am sure that everyone will agree that the sort of inflationary risk taking with which the Australian economy is faced today is most definitely incapable of being solved by the best managerial skills here or anywhere. Perhaps that is why people with some of the best managerial skills have been regrettably leaving the Australian continent in the last 6 to 12 months.  Mr Crean  also said: 
Runaway inflation increases uncertainty, interest rates and time horizons shorten- a robust, confident business sector becomes volatile and edgy. 
These are the words of the Federal Treasurer. In the circumstances I suppose we must agree that it is not much wonder that he is soon, I believe regrettably, to become the ex-Federal Treasurer. In the history of this country there could be very few, if any, occasions on which there has occurred a greater measure of volatility and edginess in the Australian commercial and industrial community than is occurring today. This volatile nature, this edginess, must surely be related to the lack of confidence, the uncertainty which is depriving industry and indeed the total Australian people of investment and employment opportunities. The tax measures which have been dealt with so broadly and completely in this chamber in the last few hours create no form of incentive to enable this tragic trend to be altered. The well known 20th century economist Lord Keynes has said, among other things, that there is no subtler or surer means of overturning the existing basis of society than to debauch the currency. I believe that this has been happening, and is happening, in the Australian scene to a very marked degree. In the last 2 years or slightly less we have had something like 4 revaluations of the currency. There has been an across the board cut in tariffs of 25 per cent without any reference to the varying capacities of the industries involved. These things have happened, so we are creating through our tax process that debauchery of the currency to which Lord Keynes referred. 
We are in fact creating that very currency debauchery which of itself not only destroys confidence in the Australian scene but, even more importantly, destroys confidence overseas in the Australian scene. I believe that the currency situation is such that it has developed and accelerated problems in the fields of employment and production which confront us today.  Mr Crean  further said: 
A growing work force needs a growing business sector if employment opportunities are to be maintained. One man's higher pay packet is another man's higher cost of living, or perhaps his job. 
Surely this is relative to the remarks I made earlier in regard to the national cake. The cake must become larger if a growing work force is to receive growing employment opportunities. There has to be instilled into this economy- I suggest that one of the most important ways that this sort of thing can be instilled into the economy is through taxation measures- a confidence and a determination to increase productivity across the board; in other words, to increase the size of the national cake instead of spending our energies on dividing it in different ways and leaving its size the same perhaps as it was or even smaller. In view of the remarks that were made, I believe by  Senator Walsh,  concerning prices and incomes- he was referring last evening to the failure of the Government to gain control over prices and incomes- it may surprise him to know that the Federal Treasurer, a very eminent man in this Government and indeed in the parliamentary Labor Party, has said very recently: 
Experience overseas demonstrates that even if they were available, controls on prices and incomes do not work. Profit, investment and employment all interact on one another and high rates of inflation have a depressing influence on all three . . . 
As  Senator Bishop  said last night, the Federal Treasurer is, amongst other things, a thoroughly honest man so those must be his convictions. They suggest that simple controls on prices and incomes have been tried elsewhere, as we all know, and have not worked. 
A Labor Government wants,  Mr Crean  has said, a profitable growing business sector. If this is so- I certainly hope it is so- then why present the September Budget, the one that preceded it and the one that followed it, all within 6 months,  and all with taxation measures that have lent literally nothing to the incentive capacity within this economy.  Mr Crean  referred most pertinently to the 'distorting lens of the monetary illusion'. Those are the lens in which we are suffering today. We are suffering today in a monetary illusion which, in very remarkable degree, is referrable to the tax situation that confronts the Australian economic and social community. 
If I may I will briefly look at one or two areas of tax with that sort of background, that sort of measuring stick which after all, is the economicmeasuring stick which has been given to us as a community by no less a person that the Federal Treasurer. Let us look for a moment at just two or three tax areas that have already been dealt with. The income tax cuts of themselves were a step in the right direction but the truth unfortunately is that they were delayed 6 or 8 months longer than they should have been and they were so insignificant ultimately in size, compared with the escalating rate of inflation, that they are going to be, I understand, totally eroded by the end of this year. Therefore they cannot give the incentive, the real satisfaction, which hopefully would develop in the wage and salary earning community a desire to get on with the job and not be constantly seeking to catch up with a spiralling inflation. 
The tax on unearned income was dealt with at some considerable length by  Senator Carrick  and I can only concur with his deliberations on that tax. In view of the words of the Federal Treasurer, it is a tragedy that this tax should be invoked. It can only help to stop the amassing of investment which brings about a great increase in employment and productivity at a time probably when this economy has never needed it more. A tax of 10 per cent on so-called unearned income is, to me, insulting in itself for it suggests that everybody who has invested anything has contributed nothing work wise. Why the extraordinary definition of 'unearned'? Virtually every investment in this community and in any other free community is an earned increment and from that point it is invested. Why then should there be a penalty such as this tax imposes upon that sort of incentive, that sort of initiative, that sort of drive? 
Briefly I pass through the area of education where it is unbelievable to me, and I believe to a very large number of members of the Government, that the Government should have brought down legislation which will reduce from $400 to $ 1 50 the allowable tax deduction of money spent on a child's education. This seems to be an incredible attitude to take at a time of spiralling inflationary costs and at a time when the pressures on education are growing continually. Is not this virtually denying everybody across the board a real measure of aid in education? What do we gain if, through taxation, we destroy the right of this community to have freedom of choice in education as we imagine the community would require freedom of choice in so many other areas? What do we gain by establishing a situation were it may be impossible for an independent stream of education to survive? There can be no gain in that sort of circumstance in a democracy, in a free society. Let us hope that the Government of this country is not viewing education as being indoctrination rather than education. If we do slide into a situation where we, as Australians, lose our freedom of choice in that field, that field will have become, I suggest, purely a field of indoctrination, whether it be of the Left or the Right. The tax attitudes that literally encourage the establishment of this circumstance are to be deplored. 
Life insurance companies have contributed a great deal, by investment, to the development of this country. In 1 973 the tax deduction on their calculated liabilities was reduced from 3 per cent to 2 per cent. Now it has been reduced from 2 per cent to 1 per cent. All this does in the long term- a not very long term- is to deny to the Australian people a large measure of investment and development and to deny to millions of policy holders, large, medium and small, the sort of bonuses that are desperately needed even more so in the inflationary circumstances of today than at any other time in the economic and social history of this country. I concur totally with  Senator Carrick  's remarks on the mining industry. Taxation in this area is of such a nature that it is tending to destroy initiative, research and development in an area in which Australia has a unique capacity, a capacity which could, if thoroughly and properly exploited, see this country right at the head of the economic circumstances that pertain to countries throughout the world. To me it is a tragedy that at a time such as this we should see a taxation system introduced which will deny to Australians the opportunity to receive the benefit of research and development in such an enormous potential industry as the petroleum and minerals industry of Australia. 
Let me remark for a moment on the projected, though as yet somewhat undefined, capital gains tax. This tax, if it becomes law, will not only prove expensive to collect and its yield, in the short term, will be small but also it will be yet another depressant on productive activity. It is another anti-move in a society and in an economy that deserves and must have circumstances that bring a real incentive to bear on our operations. I draw the attention of the Senate to the way that this capital gains tax may operate. One can imagine a small factory valued at, perhaps, $50,000 being sold for $100,000 and thus showing a capital gain of $50,000. It is being sold so that its owner can establish himself in a larger and better province and in a larger and better productive capacity in some other field. In doing that, because of the capital gains tax, another $17,000 will be involved. This will have to be recouped if the industry is to survive and people are to be employed. It can only lead to an everincreasing price snowballing situation. 
I could go on but, as I support the amendment moved by  Senator Carrick,  I choose to say in closing my remarks that the tragedy of the Bills we have been discussing is that they are totally designed- I regret to say designed but I assume that is the correct word-to deny incentive at a time when this economy and this society needs nothing more and certainly nothing more urgently. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Douglas  McClelland) adjourned. 
I believe I should support the elimination of this clause. I recognise the wishes of the Minister in this case but I think that of essence the Australian Wool Corporation must be a very independent commercially based operation if it is to work for the greater benefit of this immensely important industry. Probably it is the only industry in Australia in which we produce the most and the best of the product. Whilst there is some reason for the changes proposed in the Bill in the establishment of the Corporation personnel, on balance I do not believe they are justified. I believe that in reality they ultimately could make the Corporation very little more than the tool of the Minister and the Department. That would not be in the interests of the industry, certainly not in the interests of the Corporation as an independent and responsible trading organisation. 
I see no real reason for increasing the number of men on this Corporation body, nor can I see the logic behind the suggestion that the Minister should have the capacity to literally continue asking the industry to keep on submitting names until he finds four that are acceptable to him. 
After all, this Corporation has an immensely important job to do and in the long term- by that I only mean annually- is referrable to the Australian Parliament. Surely that is sufficient control. I do not believe there is any unreasonable licence contained within the manner of election to the Corporation or in its powers. I must indicate that I support the maintenance of the formation of the Corporation according to its former accepted manner. 
I want to elaborate only briefly. It is felt that by establishing a market support trust fund we would in fact be tidying up the whole exercise and making it more secure. The fund would become subject to audit and, indeed, it would be putting the holding of 5 per cent of growers' moneys into a fund which has an identical degree of security to that fund which is set up to maintain the 2% per cent of growers' moneys which are contributed towards research within the wool industry. This amendment has been moved because we feel it is reasonable and sensible to make this a more watertight compartment by forming what we propose to call a 'market support trust fund' to handle the 5 per cent of moneys and that they should in fact be checked and accounted for by a specific date, as indicated by  Senator Maunsell,  30 December 1975. lt should be accounted for at 6-monthly periods. We believe this is a worthwhile and sensible amendment. It is little more than an exercise in tidying up and in general it will provide reasonable and proper security. 
I rise very briefly in support of the Dairy Adjustment Bill 1974. Were we able to have accepted the amendments proposed by  Senator Bessell  I think that probably the Government would have agreed that the amendments could do nothing but make a good Bill just that little better. I find it easy to support a Bill which concerns itself with the adjustment of an industry such as the dairy industry, because adjustment and reconstruction in the context of industries are virtually the same thing. It has been the province and policy of my Party and of the Liberal Party to be constantly interested and concerned in the areas of reconstruction and adjustment in many industries. In fact, in my own State of New South Wales very considerable advances have been made over a number of years in the areas of reconstruction in particular in branches of primary industry. 
This Bill- I believe this is a very important feature of the Bill- creates in the province of the State Ministers and State authorities a real measure of control. I compliment the Government on having produced this feature in this legislation. Very often this is not the case. It is perhaps even somewhat out of character that the Government in this case has seen fit to leave within the province of the State Ministers and their authorities a very real degree of control. This is one of the most important and encouraging features of this legislation. 
The legislation basically confines itself to 2 prongs. It is concerned with adjustment insofar as it will enable the building up of efficient dairying enterprises by the purchase of additional farms or of additional parts of farms until the enterprises reach a point where they find that to a landed asset they are able to adapt elements of capital and labour which make that enterprise as totally efficient as it is possible to be. It is to that kind of adjustment that the Bill confines itself in the one instance. In the other instance, of course, the major objective of the Bill is to make it possible for those areas, which are, relatively speaking, at least uneconomic areas in the industry, to be aided to transfer to other areas of production within the primary industry structure in which they find themselves and to become economic units. In actual fact it makes it easier for the relatively economic areas of the industry to become better standing and to become better able to produce within the industry, and at the same time it makes it relatively easier for those parts of the industry that could well be adopting a different area of production, a different attitude, to move into those other fields. 
I should like to refer one question to the Minister. I believe that he may give us some assurance in the form of definition. I refer to clause ll(2)(c), clause 12 (2), clause 13 (2) and clause 16 (3). Clause 1 1 (2) (c) refers to the assistance which is to be available to members of the industry. It says that assistance is to be available only when they are 'unable to obtain a loan on reasonable terms from normal financial sources for the purposes for which the assistance is to be given '. I am sure that there is a proper definition of 'reasonable terms' and 'normal financial sources'. I would appreciate- I am sure that the Senate and the industry would appreciatethe Minister giving us some indication of what is meant by 'reasonable terms' and 'normal financial sources', because naturally if this were to be too extravagantly extended it might mean that the actual availability of the adjustment finance would be much more difficult to come by than one would hope and believe will be the case. I am sure that the Minister can make some reference to that definition. 
In closing I refer to the fact that this Bill provides for an amount of $43m to be expended over a period of 2 years in this adjustment process. It virtually replaces the former bounty and subsidy systems within the dairying industry. I believe that emphasis should be placed on the matter which has already been raised by  Senator Bessell,  that is, that the Australian dairying industry, from the point of view of subsidy, stands head and shoulders above equivalent industries in any other country- even in New 
Zealand where approximately $60m is to be expended in subsidies. If we go beyond the Australian and New Zealand situations we find that enormous subsidies are provided to the dairying industry in the United States and in Canada and that in the European Economic Community approximately $ 1,000m to $2,000m is expended on dairying subsidies- a situation which, on occasions in the past, has enabled the dairying industry from the Community countries to compete by virtually dumping in some of the traditional markets of the Australian industry. I am sure that this Bill will create a real measure of confidence in the Australian dairying industryan industry which is faced with quite a remarkable number of potential markets; an industry which given this capacity, this aid to readjust and rebuild, will be an even more significant industry in the future. I wholeheartedly support the Bill and hopefully anticipate that the Minister in his reply will give some form of definition to the matters to which I have referred. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Agriculture. It concerns the crisis area in the beef industry. Has the Australian Meat Board signed a meat deal with Russia? At what, price was the deal negotiated? Is he satisfied with that price? Is he aware of suggestions within the industry that a higher negotiated price would have lifted the beef market out of the doldrums? Does he know that the Meat Board on Monday contacted meat works asking them to tender for parts of the Russian deal? Is he also aware that yesterday the Meat Board contacted meat works and withdrew the suggestion that they should tender? I would hope that all this does not mean that the Russian deal is off. 
It appears that in this important discussion which is before us tonight there is creeping in a little more than what one might describe as calmness. I stand here tonight to support the amendment which the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  has moved. Before continuing I shall refer briefly to the amendment. It states: 
Leave out all words after '( I ) The Senate is of the opinion that', insert- the choice of a  Senator to  fill a casual vacancy is by section IS of the Constitution the sole responsibility of the Houses of Parliament of the State, or if the Houses of Parliament of the State are not in session, of the Governor of the State acting upon the advice of his Executive Council: and 
The Senate commends to the Parliaments of all the States the practice which has prevailed since 1949 whereby the States, when casual vacancies have occurred, have chosen a  Senator from  the same political party as the  Senator who  died or resigned. ' 
I recall the Senate's attention to the words of this amendment because it rather surprises me that the Government does not approve it. Surely the amendment contains what must be the attitude of the total Senate in this circumstance. Surely anything beyond the contents of the amendment lies in the province of the State parliaments concerned. I make that point right at the beginning of the few words which 1 propose to say. I further indicate that the whole exercise in which we arc involved tonight must surely be looked at in reality as being somewhat premature. It is premature because we are in fact talking about attitudes indicated by the Premier of a State and by the Cabinet of that State. But we are ignoring the most important fact of all. Whatever is the judgment of that State can be revealed ultimately only by the total opinion of the Parliament of that State. Consequently, at this stage we are getting worked up over a situation which, to this point, is hypothetical. The Houses of the State Parliament have not met. No decision has been made. Whether the State involved is New South Wales or any other State, at this stage our action must be viewed as at least premature. 
-I do not say that at all. I am saying that the body properly constituted to solve this problem is the New South Wales Parliament. That is all I am saying. 
-A11 I am saying is that the New South Wales Parliament is the proper and only body which can solve this situation. I make the point that I am one who believes in the method of the election of the Senate. I believe that it has served this Parliament and the people of this country well over a very long period. I am equally convinced of the great urgency of the mission which the Senate has to perform in the Australian parliamentary scene. The Senate, particularly since 1949, has been a very finely balanced House. It has an immensely important job to perform. The performance of its work does not only involve the field of committee work and a review of legislation- immensely important though those areas be- but perhaps the major work of this Senate is as a representative body of the States in the Federal field. It is in fact a States House. Because it has this immensely tremendous responsibility I believe it is important that the Senate does not concern itself with or judge whatever may be the choice of the Parliaments of the States. I think that is simple, basic and fundamental to the whole issue. 
It really surprises me that the Government does not agree that this is the essential and basic character of the Senate and of the method of electing it. But more than that, it occurs to me that if the Premier and a significant part of the Government of New South Wales or, indeed, of any other State thinks that an unusual practice should perhaps be considered in filling a vacancy in the Senate that suggests to me- as I believe in honesty it would suggest to all people- that there must be an unusual and exceptional circumstance around what has arisen in the last few days. There must be an unusual reason to create the possibility of this sort of departure from what has been common practice over many years. I do not believe that we have to search very far to find - 
No, we do not have to search far to find where there is this extraordinary difference which brings about this sort of circumstance. I suggest that it is found basically in the widespread area of disconcertedness that covers the Australian community today. I suggest that in the Parliament of New South Wales, among the people of New South Wales and among the people of the Commonwealth there is a very great sense of anxiety. In that circumstance, particularly from the point of view of the State governments in this country, surely the Senate is the only braking force that those governments have in the constitutional set up. When desperate action is suggested or mooted, and that is all that has happened to this point, one must logically look around for the cause. 1 am suggesting that there is in this country today a feeling of very great stress and concern. The Constitution has served this country well and hopefully will serve it well for many decades to come. But it would not be the first time that unusual practices have occurred. For instance, the changing of the name of the Federal government to the Australian Government. Is there a constitutional backing for that sort of thing or is this just the changing of a practice? It has happened. 
I am not saying whether I am ashamed or not. I am proud to be an Australian. What I am asking is whether this is not a case of going around and changing a convention or practice or the coinage or the attitude in many cases to local government or the area of road finance. There are 101 areas in which there is creeping into this country a totally different attitude of the Federal Government. These are changes of circumstances, changes of attitude, which are not being worried over by the Government but are being implemented by the Government. Now when there seems to be a possibility of a change of stance in one of the States there is an enormous concern and an enormous fervour. These sorts of things are happening and being brought about by this Government on many occasions and in many fields. 
I want to make the point that the greatest enemy, the greatest problem perhaps in this country today is lack of confidence and one of the things which brings about that lack of confidence is the fact that we find so many younger people in particular who are unemployed and receiving benefits. Yet they remain the sole judge of whether they should be employed or not. This is one of the basic things that must create in the total community great concern leading to a distinct loss of confidence. There is this extreme sense of frustration across the Australian community. There is a destruction of confidence and I do not believe that that sort of confidence has been helped in any way by the addition to the High Court by this Government of  Mr Murphy,  for in doing this has the Government not in fact sent one of its members not only to the High Court but to the High Court to sit in judgment over problems of legislation which he has virtually fostered and promoted in the Government? I do not believe that that is the sort of thing that creates confidence. There has to be in this country an enormous respect for the law. This is basic to our institution and basic to our survival. 

 - Senator McLaren may not think that is necessary but most Australians believe that respect for the law, its institutions and its personnel is basic to the survival of democracy and freedom in this country. These are some of the things that are worrying the Australian people. If this is to come about, if we are to lose respect for the law and if we are to lose respect for its institutions and personnel then a free society is doomed and confidence has gone. 
We should perhaps look very briefly at the 2 years preceding this particular circumstance here tonight. They have been marked by the great threat to the sovereign powers, the States and local government. There is an enormous threat and this is basic to the circumstances in which we find ourselves. There is a basic threat to the capacity of this Government to leave a very real measure of responsibility in respect of priorities and attitudes to the people who are on the spot. Government is tending more and more to be taken away from the people who should really know the priorities, the attitudes and needs of their society. This is one of the worries that brings about this sort of situation. There is no confidence in a country in which inflation runs at the sort of level that it runs in Australia, where it is twice as high as it is in America, where unemployment is higher than it has been in 40 years. These are circumstances which have not been imported. They are circumstances that have grown and been nurtured by the very manner of economic management or mismanagement that this country has been subjected to in the past 2 years plus. 
When the Government came to office originally it started within very few months to tear away a large measure of legislation that, regardless of what is said in some quarters, has built a mighty stable institution in a relatively stable world. The Government started to tear away at measures in the form of tax deductions and incentives in respect of so many things, such as soil and water conservation, fodder conservation, fencing, investment allowances, superphosphate bounties, petrol equalisation. These are the things - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  As a matter of fact 1 have had some difficulty on this point. I was wondering whether the remarks which have been made by  Senator Scott  had a relevance to the matter before the Chair. In a debate of this kind there ought to be a measure of latitude accorded to honourable senators on both sides of the chamber to develop fully the arguments that they are putting to the Senate. I have taken some pains to follow very closely the comments made by  Senator Scott.  I must say that I have had some difficulty in relating the comments which he has been making to the matter now before the Chair. I said earlier that there ought to be at least some latitude for honourable senators to develop their themes. Nevertheless, the comments that are made ought to have a revelance to the motion and the amendment that are being debated. 1 trust that  Senator Scott  will indicate shortly to the Senate that the comments he has been making in fact do have a direct relevance to the matter before the Chair. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I regret it if I have moved away from what is regarded as relevant to the debate. In concluding my remarks, I want to bring to the notice of the Senate the fact that I have been attempting to develop a situation and relate it back to the extraordinary circumstances of the matter that is under discussion today. 1 have been trying to relate to this Senate and to build up a picture of the circumstances that exist in this country which are unusual. There are circumstances of high inflation and high unemployment, of lack of productivity and of not knowing where we are going. I have been trying to suggest to the Senate that these are the sort of extreme pressures that have been the cause of the actions that have been mooted in the case of the New 
South Wales Government. This was basic to the logic of my thoughts as I moved through my speech and referred to certain things that have been happening over the past 2 years of the performance of this Government, ft is my purpose by disclosing the anxieties and the concerns that are so widely recognised throughout this community to show that there is a set of circumstances existing today which could be conducive to the sort of actions that have been and are being mooted by one of the Australian State parliaments. 
This sort of uncertainty and anxiety that unquestionably has brought about the unusual approach. This sort of anxiety is added to by the fact that as policies are reversed, they are reversed for a short time or for an indefinite time. But ideologies do not change and consequently throughout the community there is anxiety and uncertainty that has led the New South Parliament into this circumstance, and who knows what other State parliament in some future circumstance, to consider taking what are admittedly unusual steps. I once again state my support for the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition which I believe is so complete and which I believe is all that is really necessary for this Senate to note in the circumstances in which it finds itself today. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is the Minister concerned that the National Inquiry into Poverty, a report of which appears in this morning's Press, should have found it necessary to criticise the lucrative business aspects of welfare work and to say that welfare funds should go to the nation 's poor and not to bureaucrats? Is he also concerned to learn that the greatest poverty area in this country is found in the poor white section of our people? Will he assure the Australian people that these serious findings will be rapidly checked and the conditions corrected? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Is it a fact that there is a huge backlog of applications for retraining under the National Employment and Training scheme, including many which are awaiting final clearance by the Minister? Is the Minister aware that many of the applicants are would-be trainees hoping to take up enrolments at colleges which are about to commence courses? Will he give these applications urgent attention in order to alleviate the dilemma caused by the delay? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. He will recall emphasising, in answer to a question yesterday on the beef crisis, that producers had not requested concessional interest rates on $20m finance made available to the industry late last year. Is he aware that the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association is requesting the Government to subsidise loans to beef producers by 6.5 per cent? Is he aware also that UFWA has declared that at least $50m at low interest rates is necessary to get producers out of trouble? I again ask whether the Minister will review immediately the assistance which the Government is prepared to give the beef industry in this crisis period. 
The Senate is considering the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1975.  Major parts  of the Bill have been before the Senate on two previous occasions. On those occasions the Australian Country Party, as part of the Opposition in this chamber, opposed the Bill, and it will oppose the Bill on this occasion. In opposing the Bill we must support the arguments that were enunciated so clearly by  Senator Wood  in the chamber this afternoon. The very first question that I ask myself is why there is an urgency to bring this Bill, which was one of 4 parts of a referendum which was held less than 12 months ago, before the Parliament at this time. I can answer that question only with an assumption that it is the program of this Government, as has been indicated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on a number of occasions over many years, to see the ultimate, and preferably early, abolition of the Senate. I have heard no clamouring among Australians for this sort of legislation- none whatever. 
As I said a moment ago, the people of Australia were asked this question in a referendum on which they voted on 18 May 1974. They were asked whether they wanted simultaneous elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate. In spite of the various attitudes to the answer they gave- attitudes from members of the Government Party in the main- the fact is that there was a majority of a quarter of a million people against that referendum question. In anybody's estimation that is a significant majority; but what is more important, particularly as one of the major objectives of the Senate is to serve the States- is that five States out of six voted against that referendum question. I believe that the question was defeated quite resoundingly, contrary to the various suggestions that we hear from time to time. Whether or not that is so- I believe it is so- in a decision what does the margin matter? Whether it is a thin edge or a thick edge, when one is caught one is out. This was the situation in the referendum which was held less than 12 months ago. 
I believe that it would do the Government well to accept the decision that the people made on that occasion. The Government is constantly asking us, as members of the Opposition, to accept the decision of the people, which most definitely we do accept. That decision was extremely close. It was far closer than a five to one vote on this referendum question. That decision brought about a marked reduction in the majority of the Government in the House of Representatives and brought about virtually a tied situation in the Senate. There could hardly be a closer decision than that one. With regard to electoral matters, what fairer system could there be than the one under which Australians voted on that occasion? On that occasion 49.3 per cent of the votes gave this Government 5 1.2 per cent of the seats. I cannot imagine a much closer or fairer decision than that. We accept that decision. I believe that the Government should accept the decision that the people made by referendum on 18 May 1974. 
I would have thought- indeed, I would have hoped- that the Government would have found a way to oppose a piece of legislation such as this which is virtually setting up a set of circumstances in which this chamber ultimately must be abolished by the Government. It seems to be a strange twist of logic that 29 members of the Government Party are doing their utmost to establish conditions which will virtually say to the Australian people that the Senate, as a responsible brake in the Australian parliamentary system, is totally unnecessary and we do not need it. This sort of thing must follow the implementation of simultaneous elections. I believe that we should be aware of the real significance of the role of the Senate. It has a well known three-fold role. As I mentioned earlier and as  Senator Wood  mentioned, in the first place it has the role of representing the States in this Parliament. It is the very essence of the strength of the theory of federalism as opposed to the theory of centralism. So, it is very important if this country is not ultimately to decline into a form of dictatorship, whether it be of the Right or of the Left. That is the first, and perhaps the most important, area of the Senate's responsibility. In the second place it is, of course, as it should be, a House of review. In that situation it has the responsibility of examining every piece of legislation, of amending it, of throwing it out or of passing it. It does all those things within its proper concept. It has the responsibility to examine legislation. It is, in fact, the people's brake for legislation of this country. Its significance in that area is immense. Its final area is in the area of the committee system whereby its investigations become basic to the establishment of all important legislation in the Parliament of this country. 
How can this body be effective as a responsible brake of the community if it is to be elected simultaneously forever with the House of Representatives? In this circumstance it must constantly reflect the very often emotional circumstances of an election for the House of Representatives. If this be the case, and there is a landslide to the Left or to the Right, the Senate undoubtedly will become purely and simply a rubber stamp of the government of the day and of no value whatever to the community that it is written into the Constitution to serve in the form of a responsible brake, a guardian. I believe that the introduction of simultaneous elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate must most definitely deny Australians that most important province whereby the Senate is a responsible House of review. It is, in fact, a brake on would-be dictators no matter what their political Une or their ideology may be. No democracy can survive if it has not a responsible and recognisable brake within its constitutional set-up. 
I have searched for the Government's argument that suggests that simultaneous elections should be introduced. I find it extremely difficult to establish that argument. The matter seems to me to resolve itself purely and simply around the area that it would be cheaper and simpler to have simultaneous elections. Of course there can be no doubt that both those arguments are valid, but the weakness surely is that they must ultimately lead to the abolition of the Senate and they must ultimately lead to the total uselessness of the Senate in carrying out the function which the founders of this Constitution envisaged for it. Simultaneous elections may be cheaper and simpler but they would produce a Senate which was totally and absolutely ineffectual. I am convinced that the people of Australia deserve a far more responsible watchdog than would be produced by the introduction of simultaneous elections. Recently in the House of Representatives the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said about the Bill: 
Most importantly it will assist in reflecting in both Houses simultaneously the people's will, so that the Government of the day and the Parliament may get on with their job. 
That is a most revealing statement. It reveals totally and unequivocally the fact that the Prime Minister certainly has no regard- I believe he must understand the role of the Senate- for the role of the Senate in its province as an adjudicator, as a House of review and as a people's brake on the legislation that comes before it. 
It is equally important, I believe, that the Senate elections should occur not simultaneously with the House of Representatives but that they should occur as they do now and produce half the members of the Senate at any one election, so that there is a change not of the total Senate but of half the Senate. In doing so, surely the Australian people receive something of a continuing measure in their effort of guardianship over the legislation before the Parliament. If half the members of the Senate are elected at a time they will represent a continuing view which changes over the years, and a real measure of stability must be introduced by that measure alone. The other most significant feature of the Senate's being elected in halves is that it provides the Australian people- the electorate- with a real opportunity to pass judgment on the government of the day. I believe that this is a provision, a right and a responsibility which the electorate must accept and which it needs. 
In any democracy surely it is important for people to be able to pass judgment on a government as it proceeds along the line, otherwise there will be the establishment of a totalitarian circumstance from which there will be no return, no matter, to what end that totalitarian circumstance may be directed. On the grounds that the legislation is unnecessary- there is no clamour for it- that it has been rejected by the Australian people less than 12 months ago, that it would destroy the very significance of the Senate in the Australian parliamentary system and thereby be the prelude to its abolition and that it would deny the Australian people an opportunity to pass judgment on the government of the day as it proceeds along its course, I strongly oppose the Bill. 
-Did the Leader of the Government in the Senate indicate to the Senate yesterday that unemployment in the textile industry was not entirely due to Government tariff policy? It is a fact that those unemployed by Government action in the textile industry are entitled to 6 months unemployment benefit at their previous full salary? Are they not paid the full salary because the Government admits that its tariff policies have created serious unemployment in the textile industry? 
Just before the sitting was suspended for dinner  Senator Keeffe  was speaking on the Bills before us.  His  speech concerned, as it seems to me it often does, something of a denigration of personalities of the Australian Country Party, of multi-national corporations and, for good measure, the other Opposition Party, the Liberal Party. I cannot really see the significance of these things as yardsticks concerning or being applicable to the legislation we are discussing tonight. I understand that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has just recently been overseas seeking somewhat desperately investment from international operations. So I would assume that the Government realises, to its credit, that all that is multi-national is not necessarily bad. Multinationalism in the economic sense must surely be related to internationalism in the political sense. I believe that the age of nationalism is the Western world at least, in marked degree, ended with the 19th century, and hopefully we are in this era, certainly in this the latter stages of the 20th century, in the era of internationalism. Insofar as a measure of multi-nationalism means an involvement by other countries and other interests, there must of necessity be a measure of security. I believe it is the province of our Government to see that there is a proper measure of control over multinationals or whatever in the circumstances of economic and political development. 
To return to the Bills which are before us- the Minerals (Submerged Lands) Bill and the associated royalty Bill which are being discussed tonight in a cognate debate- let me say that it seems in the first place somewhat strange that rather than allowing just 3 months to pass before reintroducing these Bills to the Senate there has been a period of 7 months. Indeed, they are being reintroduced to the Senate in some urgency. It seems to me that today we are being confronted by a trickle which is becoming a stream of Bills which may well be considered Bills for a double dissolution. One would get the impression that the Government has set about a policy to stockpile such Bills. I believe it should be a significant warning to the people that this sort of thing is happening, because a judgment that followed the Joint Sitting of the Parliament in 1974 suggested that one Bill, 6 Bills or any number of Bills may come before a Joint Sitting of the Parliament. If it is the view of the Government that it may following an election find itself in a position to put a mass, a stockpile, of Bills before such a Joint Sitting, then in fact the Australian people would be witnessing a total reversal of the social and political history of this country at one fell swoop. I think it is significant that we should observe that this sort of thing would appear to be going on. 
Our opposition to these Bills which we opposed on former occasions is, I consider, somewhat stronger tonight than it has been on those previous occasions. It is stronger because we are aware as the weeks and months have passed by that there is growing in the potentially great minerals and petroleum industries a doubt and despondency which is widespread and of great detrimental effect to the entire Australian population. There is a measure of doubt, despondency and uncertainty which I believe, and which I am sure many other people believe, is associated with an element which tends to make people think of nationalisation and tends to make the people concern themselves more and more with theory of centralism. So we see that doubt and despondency are bringing about in the minerals industry a marked level of unemployment. Because of the loss of productive capacity it is adding to the inflation that cripples this country. The doubt and the uncertainty are paramount to a loss of production, a loss of research enterprise and a loss in the advance of development in these most important industries. Perhaps it is somewhat ironical to recall that in these circumstances, as a result of the initiatives of the Government, it has not been the very large mining enterprises that have been worst hit, although of course they have been severely hit, but ironically enough it is the smaller Australian enterprise that has borne perhaps the most severe penalty from the attitudes and policies of the recent months. The Bills deal with minerals other than petroleum, which finds its area of involvement in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. One wonders why the difference in approach that seems to be apparent in this legislation relating to minerals. I believe the difference is summed up in a few words from the second reading speech of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  when he said:   . . the passage of this Bill will again emphasise the importance we attach to the exercising by the national Parliament of its sovereign rights over the off-shore area in relation to off-shore mining activities. 
I suggest that this has about it a large measure of presumption, because the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act is at this moment the subject of challenge before the High Court of Australia. 
It would appear that it may well have been advisable for the Government in this circumstance, having waited not 3 months but 7 months, to wait yet another two or three months and have in its hands the judgment of the High Court. With this in its hands it could legislate as it saw fit. Why is there this urgency? Certainly since 1 967 there has been a large element of joint administration between States and Commonwealth over the petroleum exploration and development of off-shore areas. It is that sort of joint administration that has heralded in one of the most exciting periods in the research and development of minerals and petroleum in this country's history. This policy of co-operation and joint administration has not been followed in recent times and I suggest that it is because co-operation is the hallmark of federalism. Co-operation is in no way related to the activities of this Government. In virtually every social and economic theatre the theory of the Government, as I mentioned earlier, has been centralism. The concept of federalism is totally alien to the concept which sees control from a government point of view as being synonymous with ownership. This is the problem which confronts our country and particularly the mining industries at this time. 
I believe that, regrettably, this Bill promotes a form of confrontation instead of co-operation and adds to the feelings of insecurity and doubt. Insecurity and doubt have arisen and have brought with them in the mining industry a severe degree of inactivity in what purported to be a very great period of development and achievement. Those feelings have brought that about and, as a result, we have seen a severe loss in the overseas earning capacity of this country, once again highlighting the dangers to our economy and our living standards. There is an almost desperate drain on the overseas earning capacity of this country and reserves are tumbling at a greater rate than we have seen in a generation. 
The insecurity and doubt that have surrounded the activities and judgment of the Government have added to the financial problems of the States. The States are financially involved in these mining enterprises and royalties and other methods of raising finance which can have a really significant effect on the States are threatened because of insecurity and doubt. The insecurity and doubt which are the products of policies we have seen implemented in the last 2 years have affected the mining industries, not to mention other people across the board who are involved in this serious area of unemployment. We have seen leaving our shores many members of the geological, engineering and scientific professions whose expertise is essential to the research and development of the mining industry in Australia. 
Why should we perpetuate the problems associated with off-shore rights as between States and Federal institutions, problems that still exist today in the United States of America and Canada? There is no reason why we should perpetuate this situation in our country. Indeed, we have virtually a 7-year old solution in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. Because of that solution and as a result of extreme and sensible co-operation between the States and the Federal Government we saw by the end of 1 972 a period of exciting development and research in this most important industry in Australia. 
In December 1972 we saw what I believe was deliberate action to destroy the spirit of cooperation. It was deliberate action because those who took it believed in the theory of centralism and that was one of the methods by which they could achieve that purpose. Consequently we became aware in this industry of the ripping away forthwith of taxation deductions and of various other incentives which were important because they were basic to the establishment of an industry with an immense capacity and an exciting future in the economy of this country. From the attitudes and decisions adopted 2 years ago we have seen a tragic drop off in activity in the fields of research and development.  Senator Durack  covered this question thoroughly and completely earlier today and suggested that it is probable that by next month there will be perhaps only one rig, perhaps none, searching for oil around the Australian shore. This is a tragic circumstance when one remembers that it is not so many years ago that the number was in excess of 100 rigs. 
There has to be a measure of real co-operation in mining for minerals such as coal or for petroleum because in the on-shore areas it is totally the province of the sovereign States. When seams or petroleum bearing shale extend beneath the waters around the coastline it is reasonable to assume that the same sort of attitudes and guidelines should pertain. If this sort of legislation becomes law it is conceivable that once a mining operation leaves the State 's own shore and the State's own ground it will have to seek permission from the Federal or national authority. It literally could find itself working for that authority under rules and conditions which are alien to those that may well have been serving it for a significant period of time. I reiterate that there is a need for an immense amount of co-operation if this great industry is to get on its feet again and contribute all that it can add to the economy and society of Australia. 
Under the pre- 1 972 situation, as a result of the attitude that had prevailed, we saw circumstances in which in a very short time this country had reached the point where it was producing 70 per cent of its fuel requirements. This was a magnificent achievement of extreme importance to the Australian economy. I hate to contemplate the situation if today we were faced, as Japan recently has been faced, with importing virtually all our energy requirements. The unemployment and inflation in this country would be many times worse if that situation arose. I have to point out, as  Senator Durack  pointed out, that by 1980 we will be producing a mere 30 per cent of our requirements unless we find new reserves, and that may well involve us in finding another $400m or $500m purely to purchase foreign oils. In such a situation the production of goods within Australia must fall and the inflationary circumstances must increase. 
It is conceded by most authorities that the offshore minerals industry has an exciting future and is of very great potential in this country. To find minerals off-shore and to develop them will involve very great financial expenditure, the use of expertise and knowledge, and the employment of many highly-trained people. In this circumstance there is the involvement of high risk capital. I believe that one of the circumstances that has cast doubt and concern over this industry has been the enormous shadow of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority. It is like some giant, privileged monster which is liable to take over, and it is fed, mind you, by the resources of the Treasury, by grants from taxpayers ' money and by working capital with no particular term and at extremely low interest rates. 
In this sort of circumstance where there is the constant shadow of a massive, privileged giant taking over the area of research and development there can be little hope that the great minerals industry will prosper and rise again. I conclude by saying that I believe it is imperative that this legislation should be rejected. It is imperative because the legislation is the aftermath of a circumstance in which doubt, insecurity and virtual non-action has crept into what must surely be one of the areas of greatest achievement and of greatest potential in the Australian community. 
I address myself briefly to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill which is before us. It is a most important Bill because it is basic to the relationships in the industrial field. I was interested to hear  Senator Mcintosh's  speech here this afternoon which suggested that there is some tremendous area of confrontation growing. This is the very thing which I believe industrial peace insists there should not be. We have to examine this conciliation and arbitration legislation against a proper background. Let us face the obvious fact that conciliation and arbitration in the Australian scene over many years have been successful in bringing about a degree of industrial peace, a degree of production and a degree of social welfare and development which have been the envy of most, if not all, countries around the world. It has happened that way because the system has been significant in establishing a real measure of stability in the industrial and economic scene. 
Conciliation and arbitration have served this country well but that stability has been at stake significantly in the last 2 years. It has been at stake to such a degree that when this Government came to power some 2 years ago it immediately imposed a 33 1/3 per cent deposit requirement on overseas investment in Australia. The Government then reduced it to 25 per cent, then 5 per cent and finally eliminated it totally and absolutely. Since that time the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and others have been abroad seeking, amongst other things, investment in this country. But overseas investors are extremely loath to come here and one of the significant reasons why that is so is that there has developed in this country an immense measure of industrial unrest with the instability that accompanies it. It is against that background that we have to look at this proposed legislation. There is no longer an obvious desire to invest in this country. Investment means employment, stability and progress. The strength of our system surely has been the capacity of employer and employee, preferably in association with government, to talk the matter over and mutually agree, with a minimum of strikes and lockouts. That is the situation that we seem to be drifting away from today. 
I believe there is a need for the reestablishment of the National Labour Advisory Council, so that there can be a real measure of consultation between employers, employees and government. That sort of base becomes essential for the ultimate solution of industrial problems. We must never forget in whatever sort of society we live that there will always be an employeremployee relationship, whether there be, as in this country and many others in the Western world, half a million employers or one employer. It is significant to note that history tells us of numerous occasions when there was one employer, that employer obviously being the state or some executive hierarchy. That situation produced the greatest exploitation of man and resources that has ever been recorded. Our industrial rules and laws must at all times prevent that situation. A very significant element of the causes of inflation in this country- I mention this briefly only as a background to this legislation- has been concerned with the industrial unrest of the past 2 year in particular. With a union-abiding government in power one would have thought that it was unlikely that we would see a level of industrial unrest which is at the highest point since records were first kept in approximately 1913. Because of this unrest we have had a constant loss of the production of goods, and services being chased by more and more money. Consequently the classic situation of inflation has developed and with it the loss of confidence at home and abroad. I make those few remarks merely as a background against which one must view these Bills. 
We must ask ourselves the simple question: Do these conciliation and arbitration Bills offer a real solution to the employer-employee relationship? That is the only thing that matters. On balance, and very reluctantly, I find that I, along with the Opposition, must oppose them because I do not believe that they contain provisions which will contribute to a better relationship between employer and employee or, even more significantly, that they have in their province the betterment of the great mass of unionists. We are in a situation of urgency and industrial unrest when we should be looking outwardly with confidence to the economic and social field. Instead we find that there are enourmous problems in the petroleum and mineral industries, of which we were talking yesterday, in many areas of primary industry and certainly in manufacturing industry, that great employer of people. I believe that amongst unionists there is considerable disquiet concerning the objects and methods that this legislation attempts to produce. There is a great deal of uncertainty in our country today. I feel that to overcome that uncertainty there must be established what is commonly known as a team spirit. Regretfully, neither from the point of view of unionists nor from the point of view of Australian society, I can see no such solution in these Bills that may develop in this country the sort of team spirit and togetherness that will make us once again a great, productive and developing society. 

 Senator Greenwood has outlined very clearly the major difficulties in this legislation that involve the unionists as much as anyone else. There are dangers of omission and of commission in this legislation. For instance, the ballot of members to approve amalgamation is no longer to be a secret postal ballot. This cannot possibly be in the interests of the trade unionists or in the interests of industrial peace and the relationship between the trade unionists and industry. The role of voters in these circumstances has been made quite obscure. The definition of financial members of a union has been made obscure. Consequently there could be all sorts of difficulties in establishing those roles which, prior to this projected legislation, did not exist. In the original legislation and in the legislation as it stands today there is the requirement of a 3 months period between the announcement of a ballot and the actual taking of the ballot. That provision disappears. Arguments both for and against a proposed amalgamation were to be exhibited with that announcement of a ballot. Now only 250 members of a union or 5 per cent are needed to require a ballot to be taken within one month. There is no requirement to inform the rank and file membership. I do not believe that these matters are in the interests of the unionists or of industrial peace and production in this country. Within 2 months of a ballot the cases for and against amalgamation could be circulated and would accompany the ballot paper. No longer is this so. The opponents of amalgamation now have no right to put their view to the membership. 
The regulations used to provide for an equal presentation of argument in periodicals and publications once the ballot date was known. This is no longer so. No such power to enact these regulations exists in this legislation. It is most significant with regard to amalgamation that no longer will it be necessary to have a vote of in excess of 50 per cent of the membership on an issue, but a simple majority of perhaps only 5 per cent or 10 per cent of a union will be regarded as sufficient evidence that an amalgamation should take place. Perhaps these sorts of wanderings away from a relatively secure legislative situation may underline the greater than ever need for some sort of secret ballot. The compulsory secret ballot has served this country so well in electing a government. The Australian Labor Party, now the government of this country, was elected by this method. It would appear to be a reasonable assumption that that method could be approved by the industrial areas also. This legislation provides that an amalgamation can be sought by only 20 per cent of a union requesting a ballot of a target union. Only a minority of that target union would need to sign a request to ensure that a ballot on amalgamation will take place. It seems to me that there is undue haste in the amalgamation procedures that are proposed in this legislation. It is an undue haste which is somewhat hard to follow. 
The amalgamation of unions into the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, which I understand was done with the concurrence of each of the unions concerned, took in excess of 2 years. Yet this Bill suggests that the period should be 3 months. This haste, I suggest, could well lead to body snatching, empire building and all sorts of problems between the unions themselves. 
This legislation contributes nothing to the great mass of trade unionists. This circumstance, in which there is a real possibility of a monopoly takeover in the unions field, is contrary to the Government's attitude- until the recent Baltic states incident- towards takeovers. Its attitude to takeovers in foreign fields and certainly its attitude to takeovers in the industrial and commercial areas have been directed against the establishment of monopoly power. In this union legislation there seems to be every possibility that a monopolistic situation can be the ultimate result. Once again I ask the question: Can that be in the real interests of the trade unionists themselves who are the major parties concerned in this legislation? It has been suggested that with the legislation for amalgamation being considered there would be a distinct falling away in demarcation problems. Yet the history in this field suggests that something like 87 per cent of disputes have been in the area of wage and conditions claims and that 3.5 per cent of them have concerned demarcation. It would appear that the legislation is aimed at an area which is not basically a significant area. 
It may well be that we must abide by the industrial laws as we do by all other laws. Discipline is essential to freedom in this community. Discipline, perhaps, is best exemplified in selfdiscipline. But there can and must be a situation in which discipline can be exercised only by the application of some form of penalty. This should go across the board in a democratic society. The dangers of commission, I believe, really run themselves into the possibility of establishing through this legislation a monopoly situation which may be to the detriment of the few- the weak and the small- at the hands of the larger and stronger unions and which may well lead to the sort of unfortunate cirmustances that would follow logically from the confrontation about which  Senator Mcintosh  was talking. 
Already something like 70 per cent of Australian trade unionists belong to 33 trade unions. So, there is a large measure of amalgamation already in this field. We must not be side-tracked into believing that this is a satisfactory solution that should cover all unionists. Amalgamation is not necessarily good for unionists who have special skills and interests. They may well be better off being closer to their own executive and able to follow their own problems as a small entity than they would be if they were totally absorbed in some massive or gigantic organisation in which they become further and further removed from those who represent them. Size cannot always be equated with efficiency. This is just as true in the area of trade unionism as it is in any other area in this community. 
In closing my remarks let me say that I am opposing this legislation not because I am opposed to the principle of amalgamation of itself whether it be in the union field or in any other field, but because I do not believe that it adds in any way to a democratic form of amalgamation. In other words, I do not believe that this sort of amalgamation is in the interests of the great mass of unionists. After all, the prime objective of this sort of conciliation and arbitration legislation should be the welfare of the unionist himself in the total concept of an industrial situation which should lead to peace and production. On those grounds I oppose the legislation. 
-I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Under the proposed Australian Telecommunications Commission will some of the engineering staff at present located in country areas be relocated in capital cities? If so, will the Minister say why such a change is necessary? If such a charge is not intended will he make this clear? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture who will be aware that thousands of tons of pears have already been dumped in the Goulburn Valley because of the removal by the Government in the 1973 Budget of the sales tax exemption on carbonated beverages containing 5 per cent fruit juice. This action resulted in the loss of markets for pear juice and no pear intake for juicing this year. The Minister will also be aware that harvesting of a large crop of apples and market pears will commence in Tasmania in a few weeks and that because of the greatly reduced juice market many more tons will be dumped. What steps is the Government taking to ensure that the 1975 Tasmanian crop of juicing apples and pears is processed into juice or, in the event of fruit being dumped, the industry is compensated for the loss? 
I rise to support the Appropiration Bills that are before the Senate, as do  Senator Hall, Senator Cotton  and  Senator Greenwood  for the Opposition. But in doing so I want to preface my very brief remarks by saying that I was very surprise when  Senator Hall  spoke here some little time ago at the loud and somewhat excited denigration he poured on the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  on the Liberal Party, and indeed on  Mr Anthony,  the Leader of the Australian Country Party. It seems rather incredible to me that  Senator Hall,  who if he has a political philosophy I assume it is concerned with federalism- I assume, as he has in fact stated, that as a political philosopher he is anti-socialist -stands in this chamber and attempts somewhat ill-informedly to pour scorn upon the very forces, the only forces, in this country which are in fact anti-socialist and federalist. It is a strange situation and it happened here today so clearly for everyone to hear and to read. It also surprised me that he should have indicated that he felt it was a strange and even rude circumstance that when  Mr Snedden  was asked when he proposed to force an election- and who knows who forces an election, whether there is to be one and whoever may force it- he did not reply, did not give a date. Indeed, I assume that such an astute Premier as  Senator Hall  once was would certainly not have indicated to anybody- to the Press or anybody else- when he may have chosen to set a date for an election. It seemed a pretty stupid and pointless criticism of .the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden. 

 Senator Hall went further and denigrated my own Leader,  Mr Anthony,  with reference to his attitudes to Medibank. I believe it is important that in that situation I should explain to this Senate, as  Mr Anthony  has explained to the House of Representatives, a very large measure of misrepresentation. Indeed, all of us in this Senate on either side of the chamber are from time to time misrepresented, and I believe that  Mr Anthony  has been misrepresented to such an extent that he had this to say this very morning. I quote: 
I have been misrepresented in various newspaper, radio and television reports of statments I have made concerning the funding of Medibank. I have been misrepresented in that I have been quite wrongly reported as threatening to force an election on this issue. I acknowledge that certain reports on 
ABC television and radio bulletins last night were accepted by the ABC as wrong and were corrected in later bulletins. To correct the misrepresentation of my views, I point out that I have stated that if the Government adopts a certain course of action to seek to appropriate funds for Medibank it will do so in the full knowledge of what would appear to be the inevitable consequences. I have been misrepresented as threatening to force an election over this matter. What I have said is that the Government itself will be responsible for the precipitation of an election if it deliberately and consciously adopts a course of action when it is fully aware of what would seem to be the likely consequences of that course of action. I have been misrepresented as committing the Opposition in the Senate to reject Supply if a Supply Bill containing an appropriation for Medibank is introduced. I have not done so. I cannot do so. I have simply pointed out that the attitude of the Opposition senators to Medibank is well known and that if they maintain that attitude and if the Government adopts the improper course of including Medibank appropriations in a Supply Bill it would seem logical that, to be consistent, the Senate would be forced by the Government into a position of rejecting Supply. To complete my explanation I point out that I have made it clear that the Government can avoid precipitating an election over this matter by following the proper course of introducing a separate Bill to appropriate funds for Medibank. 
I believe that that is the sort of explanation with which  Senator Hall  should have acquainted himself before making the extraordinary allegations that he made in this place. In fact, he went on to blame the Opposition for creating the situation in which the Government governs on a 6-monthly cycle. I thought that that was a somewhat generous assumption because to me it seems that the Governments governs- whether there is an election or not- on a 3-monthly cycle. For instance, there have been about 3 Budgets in 9 months. So it does not suggest that there is any real continuity to Government policy, nor that there is any real length in the cycle which concerns the Government's operation. 
The Bills before us seek to appropriate some $600m, and the expenditure of that amount of money must naturally concern this Parliament and this chamber. It is a vast sum of money, particularly in view of the fact that already the country, the Parliament, faces a deficit which is more than 5 times the deficit that was estimated about 7 or 8 months ago. So the expenditure of $600m must be a serious question. Having said that, I accept wholeheartedly and totally the urgency of the need for the money that is being appropriated in these Bills. There is an immediate and absolute urgency to provide funds to meet the situation created by the devastation in Darwin and by the tragedy that befell the Hobart bridge, and the immense problems consequent upon the economic disaster which faces many areas in the States. Certainly we cannot be held to be responsible for creating the situation in which funds are required due to the ravages of nature, such as the disaster which befell the city of Darwin at Christmas. Likewise, we as a government or an opposition or any organisation cannot be held to be responsible for the misadventure which presumably was the circumstance that surrounded the disaster in Hobart. 
I believe that we would be less than responsible if we did not examine some of the economic causes that make it necessary for literally hundreds of millions of dollars to be found to implement housing schemes, to make unemployment payments, and fortunately to aid road building and maintenance programs in the States for which I believe a small amount of $30m is being provided in these Bills. There must be reason to examine the economic situations that have brought about the need for hundreds of millions of dollars to be spent in those areas. Certainly we need to seek no further in relation to the area of natural disaster. Indeed, I compliment the Government on the importance that it has placed upon the need to overcome the problems facing Darwin and Hobart. 
On Tuesday of this week in this chamber during the debate on the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill, which the Opposition supported, and on the National Investment Fund Bill, which the Opposition opposed for very excellent reasons,  Senator McAuliffe  accused the Opposition of changing and twisting. What an extraordinary statement that was. Surely it was made from a sense of humour, because if one examines the history of this Government during the last 2 years, and more particularly during the last 6 or 8 months, one finds that there has been a constant ripping away and a gradual re-implementation of policies which in many cases had produced affluence and a strong and stable society for more than a generation. There could be no greater example of changing and twisting than the attitude and action of this Government. 
I qualify those remarks by saying that in the beginning the Government established the case that there was, as well there may have been, too much foreign capital flowing into our economy. Consequently, the Government introduced a 33  W  per cent deposit requirement. That was so severe that immediately the total flow of foreign capital was stopped. There was no development capital or research capital coming into Australia. Some months later, the deposit requirement was reduced to 25 per cent, some months later again it was reduced to 5 per cent, and finally, about 3 or 4 months ago, it was totally abolished. Today we see the leaders of this Government careering around the world desperately seeking funds for investment in research and development projects in Australia. 
Hopefully, the Government is seeking markets, too. The policies concerning tariff and import quotas have been changed. They have produced extraordinary results, although they should not have been extraordinary. The thing that was extraordinary was for the Government to assume that it would solve the tariff problems and the industrial and commercial problems by an across the board rubbing out of 25 per cent tariff protection. As a result of that we have seen the reimposition of import quotas and changes in the tariff levels in order to stop the desperate unemployment situation which arose in many industries that should not have been placed under such a strain. 
We have seen a change in emphasis from the public sector to the private sector. Only 8 months ago we were told that we should move from the private sector to the public sector, to the extent of a 32.4 per cent increase in activity in the public sector. Now, less than 8 months later, we are told that after all the private sector is significant for the survival and development of Australia, and that it is significant to Australians, to employment and to the production of goods. Consequently, there is suddenly a realisation that the private sector is infinitely important, and I believe that it is infinitely important. But the question which Australians should ask is this: Is this movement in support and movement from one policy, one attitude, one philosphy to another and back again, the sort of thing that is likely to breed confidence in this community? It is confidence alone, internally and externally, that will see Australia out of the dire straits into which it has been drifting during the past 2 years. 
I shall refer to another area in which we have seen extreme changes in attitude by this Government and a refusal to recognise the necessity to do something in a certain situation. The Government consistently refused to maintain the superphosphate bounty until it had received proper research advice. Yet today we are told that that advice from the Industries Assistance Commission will be given perhaps by July 1 976. In the meantime the productive capacity of a vast area of Australia is falling drastically, and many areas which depend on superphosphate- its production, the carting of it and the spreading of it- are going downhill very rapidly as a result of a refusal, in this case, to change what is surely a stubborn policy. Petrol prices are often referred to, but seldom does the Government or the Press refer to the fact that this Government has been in office during a period when petrol prices have risen by approximately 19c a gallon or 40 per cent in 2 years. That is not a very good program. 
Since the honourable senator has asked me that question, I point out that  Mr Anthony  once made the hypothetical suggestion that if the price of crude oil at the wellhead were increased by 40 per cent it would involve the Australian economy in an increase in the price of petrol of 2c or 3c a gallon and that that could be avoided by a reduction in the excise duty on that petrol. That is what  Mr Anthony  suggested, and the statement has been distorted and misrepresented for the last 12 months. 
I would like to refer to the circumstances in primary industry, but time does not permit. Centralism is one of the greatest menaces to this country in the dire circumstances of today. I refer to only 2 areas for the moment. The Regional Employment Development scheme is providing a measure of employment, but it is doing so in areas which rate probably No. 20 on the priority list of the people who count- the people in the local government councils, the people in the areas where men and women are unemployed and where they must be employed. These Appropriation Bills include $30m for roads. I quote the following from a report to the council of a typical average size shire in my own State: 
A grant of $70,1 19 has been announced for 1974-75. This compares with last year's CAR grant of $121,320 and reflects the severe cut in Commonwealth allocations to Shires for rural roads: There was also a minor decline for this Council due to a change in the State formula for distributing the Commonwealth total amongst the Shires. 
The new Commonwealth 3-year Act provides that the allocation will decline further for 1975-76 and again in 1976-77. 
Commencing immediately, the reduced annual allocations mean that the following types of work are eliminated in this Shire unless Council decides to increase rates to compensate for government action- which presumably cannot be contemplated under current rural income conditions: 
All new bitumen sealing. 
All reconstruction of gravel surfaces in preparation for intended sealing. 
All reconstruction to upgrade gravel roads not intended for sealing. 
All maintenance gravelling, previously financed within the Grants maintenance percentage. 
The only types of roadwork now practicable from the Commonwealth funds will be: 
Maintenance patching of existing bitumen roads. 
Re-sealing of the existing bitumen system on a 10-year cycle. 
Incidentally, the bitumen system in that shire covers 123 miles out of the shire road mileage of 450 miles. The report continues: 
Allowing for cost inflation, a grant of nearly $150,000 would have been required to achieve the same results as last year's allocation. Accordingly, Council's funds have been cut to much less than 50 per cent in one year in real terms. 
I close by once again drawing the attention of this chamber to the necessity for these Appropriation Bills to be passed because circumstances of nature and misadventure demand that this should happen. But I also draw the attention of this chamber to the fact that these enormous amounts of money in very large measure are due to economic mismanagement, in respect of which this Government certainly cannot escape responsibility. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is there any indication that General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd retrenchments, which were deferred for 90 days in January, will not take place? Does the Government propose to raise the sales tax on motor vehicles which was temporarily reduced 3 months ago? If so, will this be done progressively or at one stroke? 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What is Australia's commitment in food aid as pledged by the Minister at the World Food Congress. 
What form will this food aid take; will it be a (a) solely wheat, (b) mixed grains, or (c) will it involve meat in processed forms. 
Did the Minister assert that Australia's commitment at the World Food Congress was only approximately $A19 million; if so, why was a note bearing the Minister's letterhead pinned on the Press Gallery Board during this week stating that the commitment was $A30 million. 
Did the Minister, in an interview on Sunday, say that Australia's commitment was $A30 million. 
Will the Minister, in view of the disparity in the amounts referred to, inform the Senate of the actual position. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Doubtless he has seen a statement in yesterday's Press by the managing director of the Ford Motor Company of Australia,  Mr Inglis,  indicating that all is far from well in the Australian car industry. Has the Minister noted from today's Press that the  Vh  per cent rise in sales tax on 1 May will mean a further $70 rise in the price of the average family car? In view of the Minister's foreshadowed rigid return over 5 months to  21Vi  per cent sales taxconfirmed in answer to my question to him on Tuesday of this week- and in view of today's concern by the Chrysler and Leyland companies, as well as the Ford Motor Company, will the Government now review its decision not to extend the period of the reduced sales tax? 
At this stage I really only confirm what  Senator Hall  has said. I believe it is important that people should not in any way be discouraged in this area. I am quite surprised that there is any argument at all in favour of the proposition that the fee for lodging objections to a person's appearing on the roll should be increased from 50c to $2. It seems to me that people in the community should be free to lodge objections. I do not believe that in the main- if at all- people who lodge objections are motivated by frivolous considerations. I believe that these people are serious and constructive in their objections. I believe that the fee for lodging such objections should be a nominal one, and that it should not be increased from 50c to $2, as is suggested in this clause. 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister will be aware that the Australian Government has given approval to many Vietnamese residents who are related to Vietnamese-born residents of Australia, or students in Australia, to come to this country. The Minister will also be aware that in Saigon the application time for passports is extremely lengthy and many citizens in Australia who wish to sponsor their relations here are concerned at this delay. Will the Minister instruct the Ambassador in Saigon to have discussions with the South Vietnamese authorities on simplifying the passport issuance procedure so 'that Australia will accept the Vietnamese identity card as identification for entry into Australia, provided the people concerned have a visa and health clearance? Such a procedure was used for displaced persons entering Australia at the end of the Second World War. The urgency of this question is added to by information this morning that one Vietnamese resident, who had approval to enter Australia and was being sponsored by Vietnamese-born Australian citizens, has been found decapitated after falling into the hands of the Vietcong. 
I support the proposed amendments to the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill 1974 which were foreshadowed earlier today by the Leader of the Opposition in this place  (Senator Withers)  on behalf of the Opposition. I am fully aware of the immensely important area that we are discussing, for in a democracy we live under social, industrial and economic laws which are of necessity, if we are to survive, related to majority opinion. Surely in a democracy laws must reflect the majority opinion of the people of that country. Consequently, of all the laws under which we live, surely some of the most important and most significant must be those laws which pertain to the method by which we elect our governments. It is such an electoral law with which we are concerned at this time. 
I believe, as does  Senator Melzer,  that we should have an electoral system which promotes democracy in our country and which elects the people which the majority of voters wants to see in government. If one looks for a moment at the sort of results that have been obtained over the years from the electoral laws under which we have been operating, one finds- I am sure  Senator Melzer  would be among the first to admit this-that these laws have produced in the Australian scene a government which truly reflects the preferences of the people. At the last Federal election less than one year ago, 5 1 per cent of the seats in the House of Representatives were gained by the Australian Labor Party with 49 per cent of the votes. At the Senate election on that same occasion 47 per cent of the vote gained for the Australian Labor Party 29 of the 60 seats in the Senate. Surely this is a remarkably fair result. I suggest that it is about as close to fact as we hope to reach by any sort of statistical or mechanical method. 
Let me say that there is, fortunately I believe, a large measure of agreement between the Opposition and the Government on the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill. We are happy to support at least 70 per cent of it. We believe that certain areas of the Bill which are covered by our proposed amendment are not contributive to a better working of a democratic system. It is on those areas that I must focus my attention. It is all very well, and it is true, to say, I believe, that on the surface some of these propositions are quite pleasant. The suggestion about the designation of the party to which a candidate belongs besides his name on the ballot paper appears, on the surface, a perfectly acceptable measure. I think that people in Australia are intelligent enough and responsible enough to look a little below the surface and see the true significance of the changes that these laws may introduce. I suggest that in the areas in which we have our major amendments the Government, being concerned with democracy in this country, will in all probability agree with us. 
At the election only last May the Australian people were confronted with 4 referenda. On the surface, there appeared to be an extremely good case for each of those referenda. On the surface, each seemed to be in large measure a sensible attitude. Yet there must have been within each circumstances that were not acceptable to the majority of Australians because all four were rejected. I suggest that this sort of attitude or this sort of result emphasises the fact that Australians, as electors and as members of a great democracy, have sufficient responsibility and intelligence to understand the sort of questions that are put before them. I believe that it is nothing short of an insult to the intelligence of Australians in general to suggest that they must be pampered to the extent that virtually everything has to be put on paper for them to copy. They had this sort of thing in the early stages of their school life. I do not believe it is necessary for an adult society to commend itself to the same method or the same attitudes in electing its governments: If this Bill denied in some areas that responsibility to some people, it would be denying them the right to elect of their own free will, of their own conscience and of their own determination the government that they see fit to elect. 
Let me refer to one or two of the areas in which I believe we are at some variance with the Government in this matter of electoral law. One is the suggestion that we should adopt a system of optional preferential voting. This of itself is somewhat strange coming from the Australian Labor Party which sees fit to elect its own Caucus and its own executive by a secret preferential system. Why then is that system not suitable for the election of the Government of this country? It seems to me that the only argument that has been properly projected for optional preferential voting is that it is easier, that it is simpler, and this gets back to what I was saying only a few moments ago. Is the essence of this to be that it just be simple and require no responsibility on the part of the electors? Is that to be the standard by which we elect our governments? I am sure that the great majority of Australians would not accept that at all. They would require to have clearly as their right and responsibility the determination of the members of a government in their own country. 
The optional preferential system has in my view to be looked at as the thin end of the wedge to establish what is, I understand, the Australian Labor Party's policy of first past the post voting. Of course, this bears very little relevance to democracy, because first past the post voting exists in a considerable number of countries around the world and in almost every instance it can be shown that minority governments result from a first past the post system. The optional preferential system, insofar as it leads logically to the elimination of preferential voting and to the establishment of first past the post voting, must contribute to the destruction of choice for the Australian people. It has as basic to its premise the assumption that all things, whether social, economic, political or philosophic, are either black or white, that there are no shades, no grey areas. Indeed there are some extraordinarily grey areas in our society and in many others. The assumption that we must be herded into either the black or the white area, or into whatever area one likes to designate, once again cannot contribute to the effective operation of the democratic theory. The first past the post system will bring about a situation in which there will ultimately be, as there seems to be in most of the countries that adopt it, a dictatorship of either the Right or the Left, and I am sure that this is not the objective of democracy in this or any other land where real and effective democracy still survives. 
It seems somewhat strange that we should be facing this very lengthy Bill of some 74 clauses on electoral laws when only 1 1 months ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  suggested that there would be no such changes and that he would seek no changes to the electoral laws in the life of the Parliament that was then about to be elected. It becomes quite clear on reflection that the only way in which we can get representation of 50 per cent plus of the voters is to adhere to a preferential system, a system to which the Labor Party in its internal organisation seems to adhere. This is the system which ensures that in a democracy the majority does not only appear to rule but does in fact rule. 
I shall now refer very briefly to the suggestion that political parties should be registered and that names of candidates should be accompanied on ballot papers by the names of the political parties to which they belong. Once again this appears on the surface to be quite an attractive suggestion, yet registration has within it an enormous number of problems. Of course, the greatest of those problems do not affect the larger parties that appear in the Australian scene or any other scene. Those problems present themselves to many important individuals and groups of individuals who have a philosophy and something to project to the community which they believe is worthwhile and can contribute to a democratic society. There would be little or no hope of them becoming an effective part of a democratic system because the requirement would be that no fewer than 25 per cent of the seats must be contested before a party can be registered as a political party. 
The suggestion is that ballot papers should show the political party which a candidate represents, whether it be the Liberal Party, the Labor Party, the Country Party or some other party. There is no superficial objection to that but if we take that as being necessary I wonder where we should stop. Why is it necessary to indicate that  Mr X  belongs to the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Y  belongs to the Liberal Party and  Mr Z  belongs to the Country Party? Why is it necessary to indicate their parties and stop there? People would want to know, if they are intelligent electors- and they are- a lot more than just that. If they are going to have that dished up to them why not tell them the age or educational background or something of the history of the candidate also? Where do we stop if we start to designate a candidate by his party? Why stop there? So I believe it is necessary that we leave that alone and that we should leave it to the responsibility and capacity of the Australian electors and the political parties which form themselves from time to time to make sure that those who believe in particular philosophies are aware of the candidates who represent those philosophies and of the order of preference they should follow in an election. I believe that this is the proper responsibility of the people and I do not think we are solving any problem by just putting 'ALP', 'Country Party' or 'Liberal Party' on the ballot paper. If we are going to do that why not do half a dozen other things? Why not include the religious denomination of the candidate and so forth? I think that is a totally unnecessary addition to the present system and I do not believe we are entitled to any credit for such an assessment of the intelligence of the Australian voter. 
I turn briefly to the question of postal voting. This is an area of great importance.  Senator Melzer  was most concerned that we should get a proper result through effective electoral laws. Postal voting, it is suggested in this Bill, should be such that no votes will be counted that are not received by the closing of the polls on the Saturday, if that be the day of the election. This means that the period of 10 days which has been the normal time outside which it is not allowable for such votes to be received is to be changed. I can see this only as a severe restriction on the rights of all Australian people who travel extensively both within and without Australia. I can see, especially in the circumstances of the postal and communications systems of our time, that the extension of 10 days is most desirable and necessary if we are really concerned that all Australians, wherever they may be, who are entitled to vote do vote. I can see no point whatever in reducing the postal voting entitlement by 10 days- the 10 days that now exist beyond the closing of the poll. Likewise, I do not believe there is a proper and successful case to be promoted for the changing of the hours of polling. The suggestion is that these should be changed from a closure at 8 p.m. to a closure at 6 p.m. I do not want to labour this particular point, but I do want to suggest that hundreds of thousands of Australians are not in the spectator group of the community and do in fact enjoy playing bowls, cricket, football, golf or whatever, and to these people, I say quite seriously, this is an option that is being taken away from them- the option of coming back after 6 p.m. and having until 8 p.m. to register their votes. 
I have observed over the years that there are 3 significant time periods in the voting pattern of Australians. It appears to me that between 8 and 9 o'clock in the morning, between 12 midday and perhaps 1.30 or 2 p.m., and again between 6 and 8 p.m. there is the greatest pressure on the polls. I believe this is so in almost every part of Australia. Consequently, I can see no point whatever in reducing the option by virtually onethird judged on the numbers of people that tend to use those 3 specific periods. Moreover, amongst agricultural Australians- and there are many of them, farmers and pastoralists and persons active in occupations that are dependent on those activities, such as carriers- are literally thousands to whom the small booths are indeed important. There are literally thousands of Australians who very much need the addition of those extra 2 hours at night in order to vote with the least possible inconvenience to their way of life and indeed to the productive capacity which they contribute to this country. 
Of course, the polling hours are also relevant to religious groups in the community whose beliefs are such that they are required not to vote until after sundown, and from this point of view also there is a strong reason, I believe, why the 8 p.m. provision should be retained. I believe also that the State Surveyor-General should be retained as a major member of the redistribution commissions rather than giving the Minister the right to appoint somebody who may have some similar qualifications. I do not think that this would be in any way an addition to the unbiased- the popular word today is 'evenhanded' work with reference to elections and the establishment of redistributed electorates. 
I refer to one final point only, and that is the deposits that are required. I believe, perhaps hopefully, that the Government would agree that these may well be increased, but not to the extent of $ 1 ,000 in the case of the Senate. I believe that there should be a compromise in this area. It is proper that there should be a responsibility involved in the deposit, but it is proper also that the deposit should not be so great as to inhibit the possibility of individuals or groups presenting themselves to the electors in Australia. I believe that these electoral laws that we are discussing today are of extreme importance. Let us not under-estimate the importance that attaches to them. They are among the most important areas that concern a democratic society- the way in which the Government is elected- and indeed there are very many countries around the world today that bear evidence of the extraordinary traumas that will result if we depart from the democratic methods that we have in Australia today. I draw attention once again to the fact that the system that we have has provided a remarkable balance and a remarkably close portrayal of people's preferences in the establishment of the Government of this country. I believe that 70 per cent of this Bill is a satisfactory contribution, but those areas to which 1 have drawn attention are areas of extreme importance to the establishment and maintenance of a proper democracy in Australia. 
May I say briefly, as a member of the Australian Country Party, that we are somewhat complimented by the attention that the socialist members of this Government seem to continually pay to us. We are not surprised that they pay that attention to us but I would like to point out that we in the Country Party are certainly members of the strong and only anti-socialist coalition in this country. We may be the smaller party in this coalition but let me make it clear that we are part of the one voice that is the anti-socialist voice in Australia. So the attention that the Labor Party seems to pay from time to time to our group does nothing but compliment us. As we are only the smaller section of that great coalition force in opposition, that compliment is passed on to the remainder of the coalition in opposition. 
I thank the Government for pointing this out and making it so obvious to the people around Australia. This clause can result only in a greater measure of regimentation and control. It does, in fact, have severe limitations on freedom of association. Indeed, freedom of association like freedom of speech and freedom of religion is an inherent base of our society. Let me say that the main argument, as I understand it, of the Government on this clause is that it enables the elector to have an easier proposition. I am not sure that that is exactly what electoral laws are all about. Surely we are members of a society which is a mature society, capable of recognising the issues and capable of voting on them. I do not think that it is necessary nor is it a compliment to that society that it should be considered necessary by the Government to designate on the ballot paper exactly to which political group a person belongs. Of course, this is a severe disadvantagecontrary to the impression given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)-  to the individual or to the smaller group in the political field. The ease of voting in a mature society is not necessarily a very strong argument. Indeed, with Press coverage and the literature available at polling booth areas it is made constantly evident to the people who vote to just what political party any particular individual or team of individuals may belong. This clause, as the Minister said, is a simple proposition. Well, it is a simple proposition that took about four, five or six pages of close type to expound. I have great doubts about its simplicity. I think that it has no constructive purpose to play. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As a result of the lack of sufficient funds for shire roads- a shortfall of 50 per cent and more, consequent upon reduced actual allocations and inflated costs- councils are faced with the immediate prospect of laying off experienced men of lengthy service. Would it not be reasonable for councils to retain their impending redundant staff in employment by using Regional Employment Development scheme moneys on council works, within the proper guidelines of that scheme? Would this not avoid a break in the continuity of their employment with consequent disaster to their long service and superannuation benefits? Alternatively, would the Government make available to councils urgently sufficient funds to enable them to retain their full complement of valued employees in continuing service and so secure at least the rates of maintenance and development of recent years, particularly in the area of rural roads? Would not one of the above methods also provide a chance for local government authorities at least to stabilise their levels of rates? 
I rise briefly to oppose any alteration in the voting hours to reduce the closing time from 8 p.m. to 6 p.m. As far as I can gather the chief argument, if not the only argument, submitted by the Government is that the alteration would make things speedier. I do not believe that is the real object of the voting exercise. Surely the object of a voting exercise is to make sure that all the people who may vote do vote and do so with the greatest amount of ease. It has been my experience at polling booths at provincial cities and towns that a voting pattern does exist in which voters present themselves basically in any of 3 periods. The voting periods during the day are the early morning period, the noon to 1.30 p.m. or 2 p.m. period, and the night period from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. To take the 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. period away is to take away one third of the major options which are there for the Australian voter to use. I believe that keeping the polls open until 8 p.m. affords the many tens of thousands of Australians who spend their Saturday afternoons in various sporting activities an opportunity to go to the polls without the race to get there before 6 p.m. I believe that the later closing time is of some real advantage to these scores of thousands of people. 
I have noticed also a tendency to brush over the value of an 8 p.m. close to the farming community in the Australian scene. I do not think that it should be brushed over as it is. In this area the added 2 hours are of real significance not only to farmers themselves but also to share farmers, the thousands of casual workers, the people who work at silos and the road hauliers. Any number of people are involved directly and benefit by having a further 2 hours, at the end of a long working day at that time of the year, in which they can properly cast their vote. So I do not believe that that opportunity should be overlooked. 1 do not believe that the suggestion that there be made available to these people literally thousands more postal votes is a suitable solution. It involves the voter in a measure of difficulty, and it puts a greater burden on the workers at the polling booths. 
I was impressed by  Senator Milliner's  conviction that all was well in Queensland where 6 p.m. closing at State elections was proving so successful. I am not too sure of the grounds on which he actually decided his degree of success. It seems to me that, politically, in the Federal election which closed at 8 p.m. the success of his Party in Queensland was somewhat greater than it was in the State election when the polls closed at 6 p.m. I am not sure of  Senator Milliner's  reason for suggesting that a 6 p.m. closing in Queensland was successful. If he is as thrilled as he purports to be with the situation in Queensland, let him remember that five out of the six States do not hold to this view. I feel that the opportunity of the Australian voter to vote is better served by leaving the closing time at 8 p.m. 
Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware that the New South Wales current budget deficit is nearing $30m, or more than double the estimate? Does he deny that this situation, unless it is eased by the Commonwealth, will lead to a further stiff increase in State taxes and worse inflation? Has he called for a report from all State governments so that he can gauge the extent of their economic problems and the effect on the level of inflation next year? If not, will he do so as a matter of urgency? 
As I rise to take part in this debate on the Appropriation and Supply Bills, may I in the first place offer my congratulations to  Senator Bunton  who last evening made his maiden speech in this chamber? I believe that he chose a most pertinent subject. He chose to discuss the history and the importance of federalism in the Australian scene. I can think of no more appropriate time or circumstance for a senator in this place to talk about the concept of federalism, which is under some considerable threat today. 
I have entered this debate to take the opportunity to expose further some of the appropriation and expenditure problems that are confronting many, if not all, shire and municipal councils in my own State of New South Wales in particular and across the whole of Australia. On Monday of this week I asked a question concerning the problems of these councils. At the moment the question is only partly answered. It was the opinion of the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  that the question concerned 2 or 3 other departments. So it must have been a question of some importance and relevance to have been given that description. I believe that as Australians and as members of the Parliament in the national capital we must be aware that councils across the land, particularly in New South Wales, have already laid off significant numbers of people and are on the point of being forced to lay off further employees who have particular skills and, in many cases, long terms of employment. 
There are 2 major inter-related reasons for the cut back and for the problems that these councils are facing in their major works of maintaining and developing the communication systems of this country. In the first place, their problems are related directly to the significant cut in the real allocations that have been made to them to cover in particular rural and country roads. In the second place, they are related to the very question to which  Senator Carrick  has been devoting himself so eloquently in the last few minutes, which is that in the last few months inflation in this country has been running at 1 7.6 per cent. That figure is right in the forefront of inflation rates in the Western world, and is a level of inflation which, as  Senator Carrick  has pointed out, has been born, bred and nurtured in this country in the remarkably short period of  Vh  years. Those are the 2 basic problems which are causing the troubles that these councils are finding in the execution of their work as the maintainers and developers of the communications system, at least with regard to roads, in Australia. 
To illustrate the problem from the point of view of the cut down in allocations, I wish to cite briefly the circumstances of one typical shire council in the central tablelands area of New South Wales. Scores and scores of similar councils right across the land are in similar circumstances. In this council the allocation of funds for rural roads in the year previous to the current period was $ 1 20,000. In the current year the allocation has been cut to $70,000. That is bad enough in itself. But if we add to the figure of $120,000 an amount which will bring it up to a realistic figure of requirement, having regard to the inflationary content of the economy, that figure should be $ 1 50,000. So the council is faced with less than 50 per cent of its requirement to maintain only the status quo in the maintenance and the development of its road system. That circumstance is bad enough, but when one examines the consequences of that sort of cut in actual moneys available to that shire and realises that it is a common circumstance across the country, the situation becomes even more severe. 
I would like to cite the sorts of matters which will illustrate the operations of that council as a result of its financial problems which are related to the Commonwealth Government funds available to it. In the current year there will be no new bitumen sealing in that council area. All reconstruction of gravel surfaces in preparation for intended sealing will cease. All reconstruction to upgrade gravel roads not intended for sealing will also cease. All maintenance gravelling previously financed from the grants maintenance percentage will also cease. The only types of work which is practicable from Commonwealth funds will be patching operations on bitumen roads and the maintenance of a resealing program on a 10 year cycle. Bitumen roads in that area cover approximately 123 miles of a total of 450 miles of roads. That is a pretty sad outlook for one shire council, which I believe to be typical of scores of others. 
The other problem of shire councils with regard to roads in particular is the increase in inflation. This reveals itself in the costs which are a result of spiralling wages and salaries. It also reveals itself in the immense increase in the cost of new equipment and new capital assets. In the last two to three years the prices of the types of materials and equipment needed have spiralled to such an amazing extent that one must ask oneself the question: Is the Prices Justification Tribunal an effective restraint on prices, or could it be that competition within a proper measure of legal restraint is the most effective method of controlling prices that this country or any other country has found to this point? 
In this context I shall refer briefly to some of the statements that the Minister for Transport, the Honourable C. K. Jones made, at a meeting in Sydney last Friday, in answer to many questions about local government finance. To a question concerning the amount of moneys available from Commonwealth funds for rural and country roads, he said that in fact 59 per cent of the total allocation of Commonwealth funds for roads was available for the construction, development and maintenance of rural and country roads. He compared this figure of 59 per cent with the figure of 45 per cent which was allocated for this purpose in the previous year, which was the last year of the Commonwealth aid roads grants. Because this figure of 59 per cent was repeated a number of times by the Minister I take this opportunity to indicate the deceptive character of that sort of figure. That allocation of 59 per cent, which is reputedly available for rural and country roads, includes an allocation of not less than 35 per cent which is available for national highways alone, so the reduction in the allocation for rural or country roads is from 45 per cent to approximately 24 per cent. This represents a significant and major cause of the problems that are faced by local government councils in their road commitments, to their ratepayers and to all other Australians who use their roads. The figure of 59 per cent is a totally deceptive one. 
I make it quite clear that I, my Party and the Opposition have no argument with the concept of a national highways system. It is a most important development in the context of Australian road communications. If this system is to be financed by subtracting the moneys spent on it from the allocation made for other areas of road construction, it will create the very problems that are created now in local government areas. Once again I indicate that the suggestion that 59 per cent of the total allocation of Commonwealth funds for roads is now available for rural and country roads compared with a figure of 45 per cent previously is a mischievous distortion of the facts. In New South Wales there are about 104 000 miles of roadways. If one relates the national highway mileage of 872 miles hi New South Wales to that figure of 104 000 miles one finds that national highways represent about 0.08 per cent of the total road mileage in New South Wales. If it is thought that that is an unfair comparison, I will relate the national highway mileage to the mileage of rural arterial roads, classes 1, 2 and 3, which are really significant roads. There are about 20 060 miles of rural arterial roads in New South Wales. Relating the 872 miles to that we find that national highways represent about 4 per cent of the total rural arterial roads in New South Wales. So in actual fact, 35 per cent of the total allocation of Commonwealth funds for roads in New South Wales is being devoted to 4 per cent of the major roads in New South Wales, or 0.08 per cent of the total road mileage in that State. A similar circumstance undoubtedly would exist in the other States of the Commonwealth. 
Having established the problems regarding road maintenance and development and the incapacity of councils to confront those problems because of those 2 major reasons- the cut in the allocation of funds and the inflationary circumstance caused by economic mismanagement- I will turn now to what, I suggest, is a constructive way in which to solve part of the problem. I refer again to the employment situation, and to the probability that in the near future considerable numbers of highly skilled staff with long experience will be laid off by councils. I suggest that it would be an intelligent and important move by the Government to ensure that the moneys provided under the Regional Employment Development scheme are made available to councils to enable them to maintain in employment those people threatened with redundancy, even if those people have to work for the councils within the guidelines of the RED scheme. I believe this would be somewhat unfortunate but, if that is the only way it could be done, it would be best to do it that way. In doing that the councils will save those employees from getting into an extremely difficult and unfortunate situation. The councils will prevent those employees having a break in their employment history. Consequently, the employees will not be faced with the problem of losing superannuation and long service leave entitlements. 
If that sort of a solution appears to be an impossible one to the Government, I can only stress it is urgent that in the very near future the Government should make available special grants to enable these councils to retain their employees who have long service and considerable skills. I suggest also that by taking this course the Government would create the situation in which there would be a capacity to hold the rate situation, because the rate situation is a terrible nightmare to councils and, more particularly, to ratepayers. In Australia there is no capacity for ratepayers to bear a greater burden than they are already bearing. If the sorts of solutions that I have suggested were introduced, I believe that those councils at least would be able to maintain the status quo as regards the maintenance and development of roads, and that they would not be forced once again to attempt to raise their rates. In this situation it is crucial we realise that in this economy there is no capacity for the people to absorb still higher rates. 
In closing, I shall make a brief survey of the industries in the major part of rural Australia to indicate still further the incapacity of Australians to bear a. greater rate burden and, consequently, the need for Government to accept its responsibility in this area of road maintenance and development. I need not concentrate on the beef industry. The conditions and the extreme urgency of the situation in the beef industry are well known. There is an urgent necessity for the Government to take a much closer look at this industry. Permanence is part of the scene in this industry. The present circumstances in the Australian industry, which basically are outside the control of the Government or the industry, must be overcome because no one would suggest that the industry does not have a real and profitable future for itself as an industry, and for the Australian economy as an economy. 
I am glad, as every other member of rural society is glad, that there is a base, a form of stability in the wool market. We remember that that base was introduced into the market. Ofter I hear Government supporters talk about the value of this figure of 250c a kilogram for clean wool. Of course it is a valuable fact, but it is very much a minimum figure and we must not lose sight of that. We must remember, too, that this figure was introduced by the Australian Wool Corporation at a period when the world market price for wool had been allowed to fall to 235c a kilogram, or 15c below the basic block figure that was introduced into the market place. In fact, 4 months earlier than that there was considerable pressure on the Government to implement a 300c a kilo figure when the market price for wool was 315c. It is reasonable to assume that there would probably have been less certainty of having to buy in large amounts of wool when the market price was above the proposed minimum than when the market price had fallen to a point where it was 1 5c below the proposed minimum. 
The wheat industry has enjoyed two good seasons and good world prices. It is just as well for the Australian primary producing economy that that is a fact. That is probably the only bright light on the present horizon but it, too, has to be looked at against a background of constantly rising costs and against a background of good harvests in the major producing countries of the world, namely, America, Canada, China and Russia. That could dramatically change the situation. In the minerals industry we have seen a disastrous decline. Because of the lack of compensation and incentive as a result of the Government's economic policies, the Australian minerals industry is suffering an extreme period of depression. One of the significant, dreadful, and unbelievable features of this depression is that, with the Labor Government in office, the companies that have been most affected are the small and middle-sized Australian companies. These are the companies first to go to the wall as a result of the Government's policies. 
In aerial agriculture there is near stagnation. Because of the spiralling costs, machinery firms are seeing their rate of business fall away, and a general running down is found in the farm supply and general retail business. I want to make it clear that in these circumstances, as we are discussing appropriation and expenditure, it is important that we should look at the real circumstances of the economy we find around us, and I urge the Government to take particular notice of the areas to which I have referred, as they are among the most basic areas in this country's economy. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. I refer to the widespread and devastating bushfires in New South Wales in the December-January period of 1974-75 in particular. The Postmaster-General will be aware that amongst the great damage accruing was the loss of telephone communications on a large scale. Is he aware that many people in burnt-out areas are, four and five months later, still without telephone services? Will he seek urgently the reinstallation of a first class service in the many ravaged areas in the south, centre, west and north-west of the State? Further, will the Postmaster-General indicate that generous financial assistance will be made available to enable people to carry out the proper reconstruction of the private sections, often involving sums of up to $9,000 per subscriber? Would not such a generous approach be in line with the Government's attitude in the, quite proper, rehabilitation of Darwin? 
I rise to express very briefly a concern which is largely along the lines of that already expressed by  Senator Cotton, Senator Wright  and others. It refers to the $240m in the Treasurer's Advance which takes the place of an amount which, I understand, was in the vicinity of $64m in the previous year. 
This is the actual amount spent. I believe that the actual amount spent in this year was $64.8m. In view of that it is now deemed necessary to allot $240m.  Senator Wriedt  suggested, in a brief reply to  Senator Cotton,  that perhaps the chief reason for this sort of expansion was the extreme expansionary nature of the Australian Government's performance. I suppose he was referring to the extreme expansion in the areas of inflation and unemployment. 
I believe that rather than the Government concerning itself with the specific amounts it should be concerning itself with the effectiveness of the expenditure of the moneys that it has sought and that it now seeks. In those areas I believe it is finding itself very much short of the mark. In fact we must be aware that inflation, which is in large measure produced by the Government's economic policies, is in itself the most conducive element in producing the measure of unemployment that we have in this country. I want to take the slightly different view that the importance that we should attach to assessing the need for explanation of this $240m is an importance related to the manner in which the expenditure is to be made and to the way in which it is to affect an economy which is already in dire straits, already suffering unemployment at a significant level- and increasing- and inflation at a similar level. In this sort of circumstance I believe we should be aware that some of the areas of expenditure are of doubtful operative value in terms of the economy. 
I am reminded of the large amount of money that is being expended under the Regional Employment Development scheme. Some of these projects, of course, are producing a somewhat distorted appearance in the unemployment situation in this country. But, more particularly, they are producing a circumstance in which there are being established in this country services and facilities which may well be needed at a more affluent time- perhaps 10 years from now- but which should be directed at this point more definitely towards producing the goods and services that alone can, by matching the everincreasing volume of money, in some measure control inflation. Much of the Regional Employment Development scheme has failed as a solution to the problems of development and to the problems of the maintenance of a rate situation which is constantly spiralling throughout the local government areas of this country. 
I suggest that the Government should be looking at the manner in which it expends these moneys that it seeks as well as at describing and defining the needs that it finds for asking for those moneys. In large measure had some of the significant amounts spent under the RED scheme been available to councils to use according to their own priorities and not priorities established in remote places elsewhere, significant numbers of people would not have become unemployed in the first place and would not have had thrown into jeopardy their superannuation and long service leave entitlements. That would not have happened. But, more importantly still, I believe that the moneys expended in that sort of avenue would have established a circumstance in which there was a real possibility of councils being able at least to maintain the level of rates and certainly not to increase them in an area in which the community is totally incapable of providing an increase. 
I just wanted very briefly to draw attention to the fact that not only do we require but also that it is necessary that we have an explanation of such an extreme increase in the amount of money provided as the $240m provided in this instance represents. I also wanted to emphasise that there is incumbent upon the Government an enormous responsibility not only to talk about the provision of more money but also to demonstrate a proper method of expending the moneys it has. 
I wish to make one or two comments on this clause. I support  Senator Withers  in opposing it. It seems to me somewhat surprising that the Australian Labor Party in government should be concerning itself with this matter because I understand that it has, as most of us have, a very high regard for the preferential system of voting when it comes to electing executives within its own organisation. It seems strange that a system which is suitable in that area is seen not to be suitable for electing a national government. It seems strange also that the Government should be proposing to make this alteration to the electoral laws at this time in view of the fact that on 11 April 1974 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  gave an undertaking that there would be no changes in the procedures of electoral laws in the life of the Parliament which was at that time about to be elected. 
The understanding I have is that he made that statement at a Press conference on 1 1 April. 
I am interested that  Senator Poyser  has mentioned first past the post voting because I was going to suggest that perhaps the optional preferential system is commonly held to be the thin end of the wedge in the introduction of first past the post voting. 
In the majority of circumstances it is held to be the thin end of the wedge. The first past the post voting system produces situations in which minorities may well, and in fact often do, govern. It produces circumstances such as those in Great Britain in which 36 per cent of the votes provided a government. 

 - Senator McLaren mentions Queensland. The optional preferential system was tried in Queensland once upon a time and on that occasion, if my memory serves me correctly, approximately 5 1 per cent of the votes produced 66 per cent of the seats. That is not a reasonable or proper result. 
I suggest that it is essential if we are to remain and maintain ourselves as a meaningful democracy that we have in our voting laws and in our voting system a capacity to determine that everything is not necessarily black or white. That is what this entire argument is about. Things are not purely and simply black and white. In any democratic circumstance it is essential that the voting laws are such that those people who have certain preferences are able to and indeed must exhibit those preferences if, in fact, 50 per centplus of the people are to be represented. That is the essential point that is referable to the argument in which we are involved tonight. With those few words I indicate my support of  Senator Withers  and the Opposition in opposing the introduction of optional preferential voting in this circumstance. 
The Senate is debating cognately the 3 postal services Bills. The first 2 Bills are to establish the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission. The third Bill, which is virtually a consequential Bill, will set up the machinery with which the Postmaster-General's Department is to be abolished and the former 2 Commissions will be established. The Postal Services Bill 1975 sets about virtually to establish a commission to take over from the Postmaster-General's Department all those operations, controls and charges and other like matters such as policy and development, which are the present province of the Australian Post Office. Half of the development capital of the Commission is to be financed from its own revenue raising capacity, and half from loans from the Treasury, at interest, or from other approved borrowing sources. I may in future refer once again to this circumstance: I think it is significant that the Bill provides for the Commission to be reimbursed for moneys which may be lost if the Minister refuses to accept its recommendation as to postal charges. In other words, the difference between the amount acceptable by the Minister and the amount promoted by the Commission is to be reimbursed. This could be an extremely expensive circumstance to the Australian public, and to the Australian public through the Treasury. 
I wish to allay in some way the fears of  Senator McAuliffe  that the Opposition is in any way totally opposed to the concept of the establishment of these 2 commissions. He seemed to have the idea that there was total opposition. The position is quite the converse. I wish to assert that the Opposition parties accept and support, in the main, the concept of the establishment of these 2 commissions. We have several observations to make and we have a number of amendments to move. I would submit- I hope the Government will agree- that our proposed amendments are of a totally constructive character and will improve rather than diminish the effectiveness of the legislation which we are discussing. 
I was interested to hear  Senator McAuliffe  's views about the sort of service with which this great public utility concerns itself. In a country as vast as Australia I do not suppose there could be any area of greater importance than that which relates to communications.  Senator McAuliffe  seemed to suggest that such communications and such services should be paid for by the users. That is a meritorious and most attractive thought, on the surface. If it is carried to its logical conclusion, I would assume that only those people who have children at educational institutions should be paying for educational facilities. There are many other areas such as roads in which it seems to me a fairly hopeless proposition to assume that only the users of these facilities should be called upon to pay for them. The social and economic development of a nation goes far beyond a specific group of users of any facility. 
Our amendments are of a nature that will, I trust, prove, in the Government's view, to be a constructive addition to the legislation which we are discussing. We believe it is important that this legislation should provide the Government, through its Minister, with the capacity to have some sort of policy control in relation to postal and telecommunications facilities. It seems to me that if we establish commissions whose sole objective is to make some sort of laboratory type maximum profit then we will set up in our midst commissions and operatives which will pay perhaps scant regard to the total social and economic requirements of the Australian community. If the Commission were to concern itself purely with its economic viability or its profit making capacity, there is a very real possibility that significant numbers of professional staff, engineers, maintenance and technical men may be removed from their present areas of operation and concentrated in larger areas in which it may be considered they could operate more effectively, on the guideline of profit making alone. 
I draw attention to that fact because I want to suggest to the Senate that it is in the area of communications that a very real contribution can be made by any government in this country to realistic decentralisation. I want to suggest that the decentralisation of the personnel and the facilities of the various communications establishments is of great significance in the total development of the social and economic capacity of this country. I have in mind the extent to which the personnel and the facilities are already decentralised. I believe it would be a sad day if we were to turn that tendency towards decentralisation to some form of centralised control or some form of centralised establishment, for in the areas in which these facilities and these personnel are found, those people of themselves are of significant social value to the areas in which they live and operate. I want to suggest that, more than that, the presence of those personnel in the provincial and country towns and other remote areas of Australia is a boost to those areas. The operators are close to the spot. The users of the communications facilities are close to them. In many cases they know the operators personally. Becouse of these things, the efficiency of the operation is quite definately improved. I do not believe that we should lose sight of the fact that the diffusion of the staff and the facilities throughout the country leads to an economic and social growth which we should be loathe to change. Surely in this country of enormous potential we should be looking at the possibilities and the realities of extending rather than restricting the facilities and the personnel of the postal and telecommunications operations as they spread across the continent. 
I noted  Senator McAuliffe's  reference to subsidy. There is a strong argument against subsidy in many fields. 1 suppose one would have to start with the tariff field. One could go through practically every field of human endeavour in Australia and find written into it some form or some measure of subsidy. I believe that in the postal circumstance and in the telecommunications circumstance there is good reason to look at the advisability of retaining a capacity to subsidisein other words, retaining a capacity for a government to indicate at least strongly to the commission involved policy guidelines. The cost burden of the telephonic and postal communications to those areas outside metropolitan Australia is significant. I do not have to tell the Senate the sort of costs that are involved in the establishment of telephone communications in many parts of the relatively remote Australian scene. I am advised that the costs of construction of a private section of telephone line range from $2,000 to $9,000 or $10,000. 1 believe that is an exorbitant sum which is quite outside the capacity of the individual to pay; nor do I think it is fair and proper that it should be within the responsibility of the individual to pay. 
I asked a question in the Senate last week regarding the reconstruction of telephone communications in many of the badly burnt out areas of the Australian inland which in many cases have been without telephone communication for 4 or 5 months. I received the reply that presumably the money was not available to help these people, who cannot at this stage help themselves, to find sums of approximately $4,000 and $5,000. The question was referred to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  who used it to suggest that I should support the introduction of an Australian Government insurance office. Of course, I take his point, but in the absence of that office I believe it right that the Postmaster-General's Department should consider taking the responsibility upon itself to help in some way in the restoration of communications in those areas which probably need communication much more desperately than metropolitan Australia. 
It is my view that the Senate and the Government should consider the possibility of introducing a form of equalisation in postal and telecommunication costs. Naturally it would be an extraordinarily expensive venture and it could not reach real and total equalisation but I believe that there is real value in looking at the possibility of introducing a system of equalising costs to the users of the postal and telecommunications services in this country. I have in mind the equalisation legislation which was recently withdrawn regarding the price of petrol in Australia. Whilst that equalisation was in existence- admittedly it involved a subsidy of approximately $2 8 m- the price of petrol throughout Australia varied by only 4c a gallon. Since that equalisation has ceased to operate the variance is approximately 30c a gallon. Consequently, I believe there is real value in the Government's looking at the possibility of bringing about some form of equalisation in postal and telecommunications costs if for no other reason than to increase the possibility of real decentralisation of industry in this great nation. 
I have referred very briefly to reimbursements provided for in the legislation setting up these 2 commissions. I think they are significant because, whether they are right or wrong, quite clearly they must involve a significant increase in costs. If the commissions are to be involved in finding half their developmental capital from their own revenue, they will concentrate more and more, I suggest, on enterprises which are purely and totally profitable.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I ask you once again: Is this the total objective of postal and telecommunications facilities in this country, or should they be more closely related to the overall balanced economic and social development of the Australian scene? I believe most definitely that the latter should be the objective. I believe also that the institution of these 2 commissions to take the place of the Australian Post Office may jeopardise industrial quiet. The more militant of the unions in the postal and telecommunications areas may cause more strife, in my view, if they are dealing with a semi-autonomous commission than they do when they deal directly with the Government. 
I wish to refer briefly to the Overseas Telecommunications Commission which it is the purpose of this legislation to merge into the proposed Australian Telecommunications Commission. The Opposition believes, as  Sir James  Vernon in a minority report also believed, that it is the wrong time to merge into the proposed Australian Telecommunications Commission the extremely effective and efficient, if relatively small, organism which is the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. That body has been in operation since 1946. It has a remarkable performance in spite of the advantage which you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  asserted that it has. Of  course there is truth in your assertion. But if it has those advantages I do not believe that it is reasonable or logical that they should be submerged in another institution with virtually negligible results except perhaps in some real measure to destroy the initiative and the morale of the smaller efficient organisation. 
The OTC has a growth rate at this stage of approximately 14.5 per cent. It is a constantly increasing operation. I believe that in April 1 970 its capital was assessed at $3 5 m. It has been paying interest of 7!6 per cent on that capital to the Government. A year later the figure was 8  lh  per cent. In 1974 the capital increased to $50m and on that amount the OTC was able to pay interest at 10 per cent. In spite of all this it has been able to reduce its charges. It seemed to me, at least, that virtually no arguments were put forward for the merging of this extremely efficient organisation into a very much larger one- a 2 000- strong entity into a 90 000-strong entity. Because of these matters I feel that there can be no real purpose in submerging, at least at this time, the OTC within the larger Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
For these reasons I believe that the amendments that we shall move to this legislation are basically constructive. They do not destroy the Bill; they do not destroy the concept of the proposed Commission. They merely tend to give to the Government and to the PostmasterGeneral what I believe they should rightly have in the case of a public utility. They should surely have some measure of control over policy guidelines. They should surely be able to relate the operations of these commissions to the economic and social development of Australia and not purely and totally to their capacity to make a specific profit. On these grounds I support the amendments and I hope that the Government sees fit to support them because of their constructive capacity. 
I enter this debate very briefly on behalf of the National Country Party of Australia and the coalition Opposition. Let me say in the first place that I am sure that the Liberal Party of Australia will find for itself, and in fact has, far better advocates and advisers than  Senator McLaren.  Let me further say that, as  Senator McLaren  and other socialists choose from time to time to denounce the National Country Party, they compliment us and we owe them a measure of gratitude for singling us out as having some real and proper contribution to make in the Australian electoral system. 
I should like to draw attention for a moment to the remarks of  Senator Hall.  Those remarks were delivered in a remarkably muted tone for  Senator Hall  and I wonder whether they were in such a muted tone because once again he was seen to be adopting an electoral situation or a redistribution which can advantage only the socialists in the Australian scene. I imagine that  Senator Hall  as a member of the Liberal Movement, indeed as its Leader, finds it in some measure embarrassing to be adopting so continually attitudes which are those of the supporters of the socialist theories in the Australian political scene. 
Constant reference is made-  Senator Hall  also mentioned this- to the principle of one vote one value. That is a most attractive suggestion, but I submit once again that when speaking of value in a voting sense it must be related to the value of representation, the capacity to represent. I am sure that in this field our great ally, the Liberal Party of Australia, is in agreement with us when we say that if we are to have electoral justice and justice in redistributions proper consideration must be given to equality of electoral representation and that one vote one value of itself is relatively meaningless if you divorce value from effective representation. 
My Party has been criticised as being a pressure group. I suggest,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that that sort of accusation could be made against practically every political entity in this or any other country. I do not know that it is the sort of accusation of which people should be ashamed. I understand that there is a very significant number of Australians who consider that the Government of this country today is a pressure group representing not even the total forces of unionism but perhaps on most occasions only the attitudes of the radical leaders of some of the Australian unions. I think that when we are accused of representing a pressure group the accusers could well be advised to look at their own circumstances. 
The National Country Party has been accused of being a pressure group, a splinter group and so forth. It has been said that it does not have a wide base. I ask honourable senators to recall that it was  Sir John  McEwen, a prominent leader of my Party in this Parliament for many years, who in no small measure was instrumental in bringing about protection that enabled the establishment of many Australian industries. That cannot be regarded as a narrow based attitude. He was the Leader of my Party for many years. I want to instance the constant attention that my Party and its leaders have given to the value of balanced development in the Australian scene and the value of real decentralisation. Again I submit that the suggestion that we are a narrow based organisation is false and extremely hard to substantiate. I think that it is because our Liberal allies recognise these facts that we remain a strong and concerted Opposition. I am sure it is well known that the basic philosophies of our 2 Parties virtually are identical. If there are differences at any time they are merely differences of emphasis which can only contribute to a proper and worthwhile force in opposition or in government. 
In closing my remarks I want to refer to one electorate that comes to mind in my own State of New South Wales. The suggestion is that one vote one value is the real contributor to electoral justice. I had in mind the electorate of Gwydir in New South Wales which virtually covers onethird of the total area of the State. In that circumstance it has been allotted the greatest number of electors of any electorate in New South Wales. Is this the sort of arrangement that the Government means when it refers to electoral justice? I have great pleasure in opposing the motion that is before us. 
Question put: 
That the Senate approves of the redistribution of the State of South Australia into electoral divisions. 
The Senate is debating a Bill to establish a Curriculum Development Centre as a statutory authority. It is with considerable pleasure that I realise that we of the Opposition are able to support the Government in regard to this Bill. Anything pertaining to education in our community is of immense importance and if we are basically of a similar view it is something about which we should be nothing but pleased. The functions of the envisaged Curriculum Development Centre are suggested to be: To undertake curriculum development tasks and to develop teaching and learning materials for use in schools; to commision and support curriculum and materials development; to display equipment and materials; to publish assessments and information about equipment and materials; to provide advisory services relating to curriculum and materials development, and to arrange the printing and marketing of materials. That is a wide field of research and it will involve proper correlation in many fields hopefully to produce curricula which will tend to improve the educational capacity of schools, universities, colleges of advanced education and technical colleges throughout this country. 
While we on this side certainly support this Bill, I believe it proper that in the course of this debate we make a few observations which could be of some value to the Curriculum Development Centre in its efforts to achieve its various objectives. I suggest that it is immensely important that such centres should concern themselves not only with the standard of education as represented by some sort of technical achievement, whether it be in the academic field, the professional field, the technical field or what have you. I believe that a development centre should concern itself not only with the establishment of specific technical standards but should regard with great importance the relevance of education to the society and the community about us. This is one of the areas of education which perhaps has not received the accent that it should receive. I refer to the relevance of the educational system to the socio-economic society in which it finds itself. Let us make it clear through our curricula that the purpose of education surely is not purely and simply to enable students to reach points where they have through diploma, degree or whatever achieved a meal ticket. Let us hope that the curricula of Australian education will be such that when people have passed through it they have developed their capacity to assimilate facts, to think logically and to come to conclusions that are of real value to a free society. That is what education is all about and I hope that the Curriculum Development Centre envisaged will contribute to bringing that sort of reality to education in Australia. 
It was the Leader of the Opposition in this Parliament,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, who, when Minister for Education in the previous Government, provided for the first time Commonwealth financial assistance in this area of curriculum development. Under his auspices and the auspices of the Government of which he was a member, there was established the Australian Science Education Project, the program to stimulate the teaching of Asian languages, and the National Committee on Social Science Teaching. Therefore I believe it is a perfectly logical and necessary step for us to take as an Opposition if we join the Government in what we have before us, the establishment of a Curriculum Development Centre in the form of a statutory authority. 
There is some query, I suppose, about the extent to which this Centre should involve itself. Originally it was conceived that it should concern itself with education from pre-school to post secondary education inclusively. I would imagine that this is properly related to some sort of totality in the area of education. It is my understanding that the Bill concerns itself only with that area which lies between pre-school and post secondary education. This may or may not be a good feature of the Bill. The Centre will, among other things, lend itself to the development of prototypes and demonstrations in the course of education. This is a proper and necessary field in which we need a central authority able to assimilate the results of research relating to a quite widespread area of education in Australia. As for taking specific decisions, we believe that the significance of this Curriculum Development Centre must remain virtually as a well-informed liaison type advisory authority. In that form it can be- I believe it will be- of real value to the Australian educational scene. 
I believe that the Centre should be seen to expand and encourage curricula development wherever it may occur throughout Australia, expanding it and giving it impetus. In bringing together this widespread research it may well come out ultimately with constructive development, with constructive curricula that are of real value. I emphasise the need that I believe exists for a proper measure of teacher involvement in this sort of circumstance. I say that because I believe it would be a dangerous circumstance if curriculum development in the Australian scene were to become too dependent on the assertions and findings of the purely academic. I think it would be a dangerous thing indeed if we were to find curriculum development dependent almost totally on the findings of somewhat ivorytowered conceptions, because the danger that confronts us is that many of the theories and attitudes that are produced so simply and so perfectly, closeted away in some study atmosphere, seem to fall down when they come out into the laboratory of the outside world and come into conflict with human nature and all the problems that human nature has for all sorts of theories. Consequently, I think it is important that as we think of this Centre it should involve itself with teachers themselves who have, I believe, a very real contribution to make on one or two sides. 
I believe that the involvement of teachers in curriculum development is of importance because they, probably more than most people, can contribute to curriculum development a real knowledge of classroom atmosphere and of human nature, with which a curriculum has ultimately to come into contact and against which it ultimately will be judged as being successful or not. So the involvement of teachers is an immensely important involvement. Not only that, I suggest- it is in some form of corollary or like circumstances- the involvement of the teacher in curriculum development must be such that it intensifies the determination of teachers to be effective in moving their particular message to their pupils. If they are involved in the development of a curriculum, it is reasonable to assume that they will have a very pertinent interest in moving that curriculum, that particular area of education, to the pupils whom they instruct. Even more than that, I believe that the involvement of teachers in this way may well contribute to a greater measure of job satisfaction, which after all is just as important to school teachers as it is to any other member of the society in which we find ourselves. 
I emphasise that I believe the important role of the Curriculum Development Centre is that it should act as a type of liaison officer to enable and to implement exchange of experiences in research, demonstration and teaching wherever they are found in this country and, indeed, beyond it. If it can effectively become the correlator of the experiences from a vast field, it is reasonable to assume that the sort of curriculum that will be developed by this Centre will have a real relevance to the community in which it is being practised. 
I want to emphasise in closing one or two matters with regard to a curriculum development centre which I believe are important. I believe it is important that the centre should have a real liaison, a real measure of attachment, with the Australian States. I believe that is important, if for no other reason than that it should be thereby certain that the Centre will not become some form of Canberra-based bureaucratic dictatorship in the educational world. I feel sure that the Government, together with ourselves, would strongly resist that type of occurrence. I certainly hope that it would resist it. I believe that this Centre, if properly developed, must tend to bring a greater measure of diversity to education because of the involvement- and I believe it must involve- of teachers and, indeed, pupils and parents. There must be an across the board involvement if we are truly to arrive at a curriculum that has real relevance to the society in which it finds itself. 
It is important also that we avoid, in the establishment of this type of centre, the possibility of building twin operatives, as it were, of duplication in expenditure and in effort, in establishing curricula for the Australian scene. I emphasise also that in the development of curricula it is necessary for them to be related to an everincreasing mobility in the Australian scene, in the Australian public. Curricula must be related to the fact that we are living in an age where mobility between job and job, State and State, and indeed nation and nation is constantly increasing, and any curriculum development centre must be aware of this fact and must concentrate its efforts to a point where it can in some measure solve those problems of mobility. 
I think perhaps a word of warning is necessary in reference to the Centre's involvement in printing, manufacturing and distributing or retailing educational material. I believe it is proper that it should have the capacity to do this, but I would hope that it would not be seen as likely that it should ultimately enter into some sort of privileged competition with the various manufacturers and distributors of educational material. With those few words, I indicate once again that I support this Bill. I believe it is an intensely important measure and, if it is possible to obtain through amendment some extra form of State involvement, some breadth to this particular development centre, I would hope that that, too, may come about. I support the Bill. 
I rise on behalf of my Party in this coalition Opposition- the Country Party- to oppose the redistribution in New South Wales. I hope that name 'Country Party' does not disturb  Senator Walsh  too much. 
I will use that name if the honourable senator prefers it. I have always been somewhat suspicious that  Senator Walsh  may at some time have tried to consume and digest a glossary of economic terms. I suggest he will be unlikely to succeed in consuming the words National Country Party'. It is much more likely that they may be relevant ultimately to his own destruction. 
In my remarks I will make no reflection whatever on the efforts of the Commissioners in New South Wales to do the job that was set before them with the emphasis and the guidelines that were directed to them. I suggest a number of things and what I suggest probably will be more referrable to the country areas of New South Wales, and rightly so. I refer not only to farming communities but also to the people of the country towns and the provincial cities. The problems that this redistribution would create in metropolitan New South Wales have been made eloquently clear by  Senator Baume.  There is a need for redistribution for 2 main reasons at any time. One main reason is to establish electoral equality. The other reason is to change the number of electorates within the various States. 
So far as electoral equality is concerned, there seems to be no real reason for a redistribution such as confronts us now in New South Wales or indeed in the Commonwealth.  Senator Baume  indicated that 54.9 per cent of the votes in New South Wales produced for the Labor Party 56 per cent of the seats. If we go further afield to the Australian scene we find that 49 per cent of the votes produced 5 1 per cent of the seats for the Australian Labor Party. 
Does the honourable senator deny people the right to preference? 
This appears to me to be incredibly close to total equality in the electoral field and makes quite unnecessary a redistribution at this time. A redistribution at this time on the ground of the States themselves and the numbers of seats relevant to those States once again becomes totally unnecessary in view of the 1976 census. After the census mayhap there will be one fewer seat in New South Wales and maybe one more seat in Queensland and in Western Australia. So, this redistribution will apply to no more than one election. It is a totally unnecessary state of affairs. 
I should like to make a remark or two concerning equality of representation because I believe that in any democracy this is of extreme importance. The important issue is the representation and the capacity of electors to be properly and equally represented in the parliaments of the nation. In spite of the somewhat cynical remarks of the Minister for Services and Property,  Mr Daly,  from time to time when he refers to gaining votes for cars, sheep, haystacks and so forth there is no doubt that behind it all there is in the Minister a determination, electorally if necessary, to destroy the National Country Party. For some reason he seems to have this great grief at the existence of a protector of the rights of country people. I want to make it quite clear that the sort of redistribution that is proposed in New South Wales would bring about a situation in which, in round figures, 45 per cent of the votes would bring the Labor Party to government and 55 per cent of the votes would be necessary to bring the Liberal-National Country Party force into government. 
The proposition that is put to us tonight is one that amongst other things sees the total elimination cf the electorate of Riverina in New South Wales. It is an electorate which has been an important entity in that State since Federation and an electorate which probably meets the guidelines of community of interests better than almost any other electorate in the State. In this redistribution the electorate is to be eliminated. Let me comment on the question of the margin which has been reduced. This redistribution has been brought about with the guideline of the margin of the quota being reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. I believe that as that is the law it is proper, of course, that this redistribution should take note of that margin. I think it is worthwhile recalling to the Senate that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  before he became involved in the establishment of a socialist dictatorship by whatever means seem best to suit his needs, said in Parliament some years ago: 
At least, the numbers should be approximately equal, within the perfectly reasonable latitude of 20 per cent above or below the quota as allowed by the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Country members experience difficulties in representing their electorates. 
That was not a member of the National Country Party speaking; those were the words of the present Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  The fact is that the redistribution is now carried out on a margin of 10 per cent above or below the quota. I accept that, but what I find hard to accept is the way it has been implemented in my State of New South Wales. Indeed the variance in virtually every democracy is enormously in excess even of a margin of 20 per cent. In Great Britain, America, Canada and so on, the variance between the numbers of electors in electorates is quite enormous and runs from, for instance, somewhere in the vicinity of 15 000 to 105 000. 1 want to make the point that in applying the 10 per cent rule above and below the quota we have seen a circumstance in which the redistribution finds that those electorates in New South Wales which have the greatest area and the greatest problems of communication, community of interest, physical structure, travel and so onthese are the most enormous electorates physically- are the electorates that have the greatest numbers of electors. This is crazy injustice, in my view. 
-If it is zero growth rate, which of course it is not, it is even more significant of the need for concentration on proper balance in the development of this country. It is significant of the need for a proper measure of decentralisation, and with this is bound up a real measure of electoral justice. The electorate of Gwydir in New South Wales, for instance, is suggested under the proposed redistribution to cover some third of the State. In that electorate there are not one, two or three concentrations of people, as is the case in some of the far flung and enormous electorates, but there are something like thirty or forty specific concentrations of people. There are 40 or 50 different areas of local government, community interest and organisation, and all this tends to make the capacity of a member adequately to represent the electorates practically impossible. This attempt to increase that kind of circumstance is one of the major reasons why we deplore this particular redistribution. Riverina, as I have already mentioned, is made not larger but is to be abolished; yet, it is probably the most perfect example of an electorate with a real measure of community interest. The electorate of Hume, not far from Canberra now, under this legislation will stretch to about 15 000 square miles and will have the greatest number of electors of any electorate in the State. That, to me, is a crazy circumstance. The number of electors in the electorate of Hume is 3000 more than the average number for the electorates of New South Wales. 
I will draw the Senate's attention for a moment or two to some of the significant features of the figures in this electoral redistribution so far as country New South Wales is concerned. I remind the Senate that, of the 12 country electorates in my State, only 2 are below the State average, namely, New England and Farrer, which are below by a mere 400 electors. Ten of those 12 country electorates are significantly above the State average and are significantly larger than they have been previously. The average size of the 12 country electorates of New South Wales to which I have referred is 63 362 electors, which is about 1000 above the average size of New 
South Wales electorates. I cannot see the fairness, the justice, if we are in any way interested in equality of representation, in this kind of distortion. 
On the other side of the New South Wales picture, of the 33 urban and suburban electorates 1 9 are significantly below the State average, lt is an interesting exercise to observe that, if the number of country electorates in this State had been increased by one, it would have involved a divergence from the quota of 6.4 per cent, only comfortably within the 10 per cent margin. If- I am not suggesting that this is desirable- the suburban and urban electorates of New South Wales were decreased by one in number, it would make them 2.4 per cent above the quota, so that there would be a total margin of between 8 per cent and 9 per cent in a circumstance in which only 20 per cent is allowed. It is interesting to note that that is the circumstance. 
I emphasise once again that this electoral redistribution in New South Wales basically is of unquestionable advantage to the Labor Party but of disadvantage to the Liberal Party in its metropolitan areas and to all country people in New South Wales of whatever political colour they may be. It is on these grounds that I and my Party oppose this proposal. 
I address a question to the Minister for Agriculture. During an adjournment debate in the House of Representatives last Wednesday night the honourable member for Eden-Monaro,  Mr Whan,  in expressing concern at  Mrs Rolfe  's withdrawal from an Industries Assistance Commission inquiry, drew attention to the question she posed, which was: 
Would it not be more sensible to look for species which are uniquely suitable to the Australian environment? 
I ask: Can we assume that the inference is that animal breeding and husbandry in Australia are second class and unsuitable to our environment and that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and other research institutes are unaware of the constant need to fit species to the Australian circumstance? Is it not a fact that our environment and climate are major contributors to the excellent standards of Australian meat, grain and fibre production? Most importantly, does the Minister agree with  Mr Whan's  assertion that farmer organisations are not yet equipped to put objective argument? 
On behalf of the Opposition I indicate support for the Trade Union Training Authority Bill. Any Bill that refers to the educational circumstances of this country, which is a free enterprise democracy, must be of major importance. It is a good thing that in this circumstance we are basically able to support the Bill. It is not remarkable, I believe, that we should be supporting this Bill for we have supported for a long time the principle of trade union training. As evidence of that statement I think it pertinent to indicate the policy of the Opposition in this matter. I quote at some length from the policy of the Opposition: 
We support the concept of trade union training. We support the concept of a National Council for Trade Union Training. 
We would seek to have established in appropriate educational institutions programs specifically designed to meet the needs of trade unionists. To assist in that purpose, we support the concept of a National Council of Trade Union Education whose task it would be to develop special relationships with the appropriate educational institutions to see that the content of courses specifically met the needs of trade unions. Training would be required in a wide variety of subjects at different levels to assist unionists in the execution of their official union duties. Subjects would include, among other things: 
The provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, its principles and purposes 
The functions and duties of shop stewards 
The question of union rules 
How to run an office 
The relationship of branch and federal offices 
How to serve a log of claims 
How to seek variation of an award 
The provisions of workers compensation. 
We strongly believe that appropriate courses should be conducted as far as practicable in existing educational and training institutions. Trade union education and training should not be shut off from other forms of education. Where subject matters overlap, courses should be conducted jointly for unionists and industrial officers. 
So it is abundantly clear that the Opposition, in this important area of trade union training, certainly is dedicated to the principle of establishing that capacity in our community. I believe it is important that in the course of this speech I mention some of our priorities which differ in some way from the conceptions of this Bill. Perhaps the difference, for the sake of the aims of the Bill, is not sufficient for us to do other than support it. We would have hoped that a trade union training authority could have been incorporated basically within the existing educational arrangements in our community, naturally with special reference to the curricula requirements of the trade unions. We say that because it seems a shame, in establishing a necessary form of education in our community, that we should be tending to establish an institution such as the envisaged authority which in some real measure appears to have the capacity of shutting itself off from the rest of the educational fields in Australia. Immediately anything in any area of a nation 's economy shuts itself off from those other parts that contribute to that economy there tends to arise a measure of suspicion. If there is a measure of suspicion there is just that little less chance of an operation being as effective as it should be and must be in the requirements of the Australian community and the Australian economy. 
Because the Government has introduced this legislation I am sure that the Government and the trade unions are interested. If they are interested in the total integration of a great, free Australian society it is clear that advantages are to be gained from having a government educational institution that relates to trade unionism involved as part of the institutions which have a wider educational horizon. I think of various universities, colleges of advanced education, technical colleges and the like. It seems to me somewhat of a shame that this sort of educational project, important as it is, cannot become part of the wider educational field in the Australian circumstance because I believe immense value is to be gained, as a nation and as a people, from providing facilities which enable students in whatever faculty they may be interested and in whatever area of the economy they may be involved to mix and to gain from mixing, from discussion and from the thoughts of students who may be applying themselves to any of a dozen or a score of other faculties or other lines of occupation. The fact that that sort of inter-mix of students is not possible in a circumstance in which a trade union training authority isolates itself from the other educational areas of this country, I believe, is unfortunate. It seems to me that, if it were conceivable that this Authority would be part of the greater educational horizon, there would be more possibility- indeed probability- that a proper measure of relevance of trade union training to all the other entities and departments in the Australian society would be obtained. 
In the training of trade unionists for their specific jobs, I believe that we should aim to establish a greater capacity for mobility, because the establishment of mobility between trade and trade and between section and section of industry and commerce can only contribute to the breaking down of the closed doors and clique circumstances of an industrial and commercial society. Such circumstances can in no way help the development of that society. We must ensure that education in any field- certainly in the trade union field- will produce, or will aim to produce, a flexible and reasonable society, because it is only in this circumstance that a free democracy can survive. If there were any chance that this sort of isolation in trade union training could bring about a circumstance in which only the hierarchy of the trade unions would receive the instruction that was available, it would damage rather than aid the progress of the Australian community. Perhaps it would be more relevant to the attitudes of the Treasurer,  Dr Cairns,  who so often has said that we have gone as far as we can go within this system. He concerns himself not with a proper measure of evolution but with the abandonment of the system and the introduction of another system. With due respect to the Government, I do not believe that it is the Government's object to introduce another system in this circumstance. I merely mention that as a warning. If we were to introduce a set of circumstances which would enable the isolation of trade union training, we would run the real risk of establishing a situation in which the training concerned itself not truly with education but more significantly with indoctrination. Of course, that would create the greatest problems imaginable for the Australian society; it would see us tend to move into areas of confrontation from which there could be few, if any, escapes. 
I mention this just as an area of concern which I am sure the Government will observe from time to time. I am equally sure that the Australian people will observe with great interest and keenness the effectiveness and the working of this Trade Union Training Authority. There is enormous mutual advantage to be gained from trade unionists, like any other section of the community, being able in their normal educational process to mix with people who are on their way to becoming doctors, lawyers, scientists, teachers and so on in the society. Although we support the establishment of this Authority, it is for that reason, basically, that we are concerned that it has not been found possible to develop this training within the existing educational frameworkwith due reference naturally, to the particular needs of the trade unionists involved. 
We also have some concern about the students who might be selected to undergo this course. It is to be hoped that the trade unions themselves will not hold too tight a control or too tight a rein over the type of trade union student who will undergo training provided by this educational authority. It seems to me that it is important that such an authority should be as open as possible to members of the community who have a legitimate and proper interest in and knowledge of trade union affairs and industrial relations. I hope that this Trade Union Training Authority will direct its main attention towards the establishment of circumstances which will create a better, more effective and more efficient atmosphere in the area of industrial relations, in which there are constant problems. It is immensely important that in this area of industrial relations we should be mindful, as far as training and education are concerned, of the importance of education, not merely in gaining a grasp of rules, producing a log of claims or interpreting Acts. I believe that if we are genuinely interested in the development of this Australian economy, this Australian society, we should be devoting our attention in some measure, through this Authority, to the question of efficiency or to the question of economics itself. Indeed, if employers, whether they be individuals or groups, are to produce the greatest possible care for the total population, we should relate the training to the importance of productivity and to the reasonable necessity to provide for a profit motive within the law. 
The Trade Union Training Authority Bill which we are considering incorporates at least 2 measures which are of particular interest to the Opposition. They were incorporated in the other place. I wish to reflect our appreciation of the incorporation of those measures, because they are relevant at least in some degree to the matters I have been discussing. I refer, firstly, to the decision that the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives shall each nominate a member of Parliament to the Australian Council for Union Training. Besides this Council there are to be 6 State Councils for Union Training. As I have said, the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Government in the other place are each to nominate a member of Parliament to this Council; the Minister for Education in the Federal Parliament also is to nominate one member to the Council. I certainly believe that this is a step in the right direction, because it involves the people with this educational authority in some real measure and it is essential that the people be involved. We appreciate the fact that this sort of contact or liaison will be made possible by the addition of members of this Parliament to the Australian Council for Union Training. It is a matter of considerable importance and of much more wide-ranging implication than at first may be apparent. 
We agree that the prime requirement of trade union training is to produce better instructed, more efficient and more competent union officials. This should be to the mutual advantage of industrial relations and of the parties who negotiate and discuss industrial matters from time to time. We must not lose sight of the great necessity to improve industrial relations. It is in that concept that the addition of members of this Parliament to the Council can best be seen to act in something of a liaison character between the Council and the community which supports this college as it supports most educational facilities in Australia, in order that the community may feel a direct link with the establishment and control of education in virtually all fields. After all, the community's purse is the purse that pays. It is proper that there should be a real relevance to and a real rapport with that community. Through the members of the Parliament that is in some real measure possible. 
A section has been included in the Bill which makes it necessary for the Trade Union Training Authority to report to the Parliament annually not just on financial matters but on its total operations. I believe and hope that that will be a significant provision in breaking down the possible areas of suspicion to which I referred earlierareas which, if they were to be generated, would contribute to the failure of an institution which is desperately needed in the Australian scene if we are to have successful negotiations in industrial matters. 
Once more let me refer to the necessity for the Authority, when established, to concern itself- it will be more difficult for it to concern itself because it is to be divorced from so many other educational fields in the community- with a relatively wide area of education and certainly to ignore the attitudes of indoctrination. Whatever the circumstances, whether it is a capitalist community or whether it is a socialist or communist State, ultimately that pan that is divisible to all the people is referable to the efficiency of the employer, whether the employer be the State itself as one entity or whether the employer be many thousands of entities. In the circumstances of Australia, at least there is a very large measure of freedom of choice and at least there is the propulsion of the profit motive within the law. If government fulfilled its obligation to prevent exploitation, then perhaps that would be the closest we have yet reached to achieving some sort of satisfaction for human nature. The report of the Council to the Parliament is then of extreme value. We on the Opposition benches appreciate the attitude of the Government in incorporating that provision in the Bill. 
I was somewhat alarmed when I read the statement of an official of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union training authority. This particular official- I quote what he said merely to provide some accent to the views I have been expressing- said: 
Union training can help widen and deepen the challenge to capitalism. 
I am sure- I certainly hope- that the Government would not share that sort of view. If that were the objective of a union training authority, it could do nothing but harm industrial relations in this country. I emphasise again that I hope that the purpose of establishing this sort of authority is to generate better industrial relations. It is a sad reflection, I believe, that a responsible union official should take that view. 
I am not taking a narrow view because I believe that the word 'capitalism' it is only a word and it is referable to any community in the world- refers to the controller or the owner of the capital asset. So the question ultimately resolves itself into whether one entity, the State, controls and owns the capital or whether any number of entities control and own that capital. That is why I make reference to that particular comment. I do not believe that that is the typical view of Australian unionists. Indeed, it would be a travesty if we were trying to improve industrial relations and that were the attitude we had to a trade union training authority. 
As I said, it is necessary that a report be available to the people on the operations- the curricula, if you like- of this sort of authority. It is necessary because the public finances the authority. Surely it is the public's right to know the sorts of areas and the sorts of directions in which the total community is being taken by any of the institutions in our society. If we are to survive as a democracy, I believe that the public has to be kept fully aware of the options that it has and of the attitudes and priorities of the various organisations, educational and otherwise, that exist in our society. 
I would imagine that the objectives of private schools were perfectly clear for the community to see. They represent, I believe, little more than another stream in the educational field. They represent, I presume, an alternative, and that, after all, is what freedom of choice is all about. 
I hope I have indicated clearly to the Senate that at the same time as we express our support for this legislation we signify our concern lest the authority should become in any real way a separatist or isolationist entity, for that could act only against better industrial relations in this country. I believe it important that this sort of authority should have within its power a real measure of diversity in training and instruction, lt is perhaps a shame that it is not open to a greater number of people, a greater area of people, who desire to understand more fully the intricacies of union organisation, of union development, of union aims. It is perhaps a shame that not all those people in the community who have a genuine and legitimate involvement and understanding and concern for industrial relations should be able to gain entry into this sort of instructional institution. 
Let me turn again to the need to destroy any area of motive for suspicion in relation to industrial training. I hope that this college will provide the background in the long term for a greater degree of involvement between unions and management in our community, because it is only as it provides that sort of involvement and a real measure of understanding that we are going to succeed in establishing in this country circumstances which will tend to create greater and greater productivity, which will tend to create a more affluent and a freer society. I believe that is what it is all about. If we fail in that regard then our legislation and our system seem to fail. It is terribly important that the contribution of this training authority should be such that it will tend in the long term to increase not only the productivity of the community but also the understanding of every segment of the community of the way in which our economy and our society operate to the community's best advantage. It can only operate to the greatest advantage of all the people if it does succeed in achieving a major measure of productivity. 
As I draw my remarks to a conclusion I say once again that in supporting the concept of this Trade Union Training Authority and in supporting this Bill we are concerned that the yardstick of the Authority- the yardstick of education in this field, as in any field- should be its relevance to the community as a whole. It should contribute to the total development of the Australian scene and it should contribute to better industrial relations. The need for this sort of thing is exemplified in the Nth degree in the history of the last two or three years. We have seen the failure of industrial relations and we have seen the failure of a government in its relations with the unions. I am not sure what area of failure was most responsible but as a result of this failure in industrial relations we have seen in the last couple of years the highest rate of industrial unrest. We have seen inflation and other things that grow from it, such as the unemployment and the lack of productivity we are suffering. I suspect that these things have been caused in no small measure by a lack of capacity in industrial relations. If this Training Authority meets the yardstick of improving industrial relations in this country, if it can improve the capacity to educate not only the union officials but also the foremen- the middle management group if you like- in the union movement, it will contribute immensely to solving that industrial relations problem. We support the Bill but, as I have indicated, we have a number of problems about it; problems that arise from the possibility of it being an isolated and not an integrated entity in the Australian educational scene. I believe that we have in this sort of area - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I rise very briefly to support from the Opposition benches the Grants Commission Bill 1975 that is before us. It is a simple Bill concerned basically with the structure of the Commission. It provides for the appointment of an additional full-time member to the Grants Commission and it seeks to amend the Grants Commission Act to enable the  chairman  of the Commission to have the same designation, rank, status and precedence as a judge of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court. I believe that this addition to the membership of the Commission can serve only to increase its capacity to do the important job that it has to perform, a job which during the last 12 months or so has widened quite considerably. Whilst I emphasise that we support the Bill that is before us and the amendment that has been foreshadowed by  Senator Carrick,  I should like to make, very briefly, one or two points. 
The concept of the Grants Commission goes back a great number of years. The Commission has been concerned primarily with making grants to the States which are disadvantaged for various reasons. They can be physical reasons or reasons relating to population or developmental problems. The making of grants to the States has been the basic reason for the establishment of the Grants Commission and the basic area of its operation. Last year its role was extended to involve the granting of money directly by the Commission to local government. In this capacity it made grants in that 12 months period of approximately $56m to approximately 900 local government bodies across Australia. In the main this was extremely well received by local government bodies in this country. Probably at no time have they needed grants more to help them in the exigencies in which they found themselves. But there was some measure of concern even with the grants as they occurred. Probably the increase in the size of the Commission will enable an even more accurate and definite investigation to take place in the future which may obviate some of the fears and concerns that were felt in some areas of local government. 
-I think it is relevant to  Senator Wright's  comment to say that of the 900 bodies in the field of local government in Australia approximately 10 per cent received no grants at all and a significant number received very small grants. The most disconcerting aspect of this circumstance is that it appeared at least on the surface and, indeed, below the surface, that there was a tendency at this point to penalise those areas of local government that had been amongst the most efficient operators. I am sure that this is an area to which the Grants Commission in its expanded form will pay particular attention. The effect of this occurrence in perhaps only 10 per cent of the areas and in another percentage of local government areas which received small grants has been accentuated by the loss of revenue from Government funds for road construction and maintenance and the general provision of facilities which are the province of local government. 
Whilst I would be the first to admit the value of the Grants Commission and the value of the idea of these added grants which are not tied to local government, there is concern because this sort of financing, together with the current financing that has occurred mainly because of the unemployment situation- the Regional Employment Development Scheme and other assistance plans- tends to have an element of insecurity in it. In this sort of finance there is no measure of real permanency. This is probably the greatest single problem for the areas to which these grants are made. There must be a measure of real permanency if a proper standard of planning is to be part of the effective operation of local government. 
Whilst again confirming support for this Bill, I want to make it clear that I believe there is a considerable menace in the possibility of financing becoming, or tending to become, a piecemeal affair. If local government is to be efficient in its projection of planned development according to the priorities of the people on the spot, it cannot operate in that way unless there be permanency and not a piecemeal method of handling the finances in that area. I express my support for the 
Bill and my support for the proposed amendment which I believe can only add to the effectiveness of the legislation. 
I rise to support the view of the Opposition that the time is not right for the Overseas Telecommunications Commission to be incorporated in the proposed Austraiian Telecommunications Commission. I am somewhat surprised that  Senator McAuliffe  has drawn attention to the fact that the Opposition's attitude has in fact not changed. I believe that that is perfectly normal. In the present circumstances it is unlikely that it would change in the passage of perhaps 3 weeks. An attitude which we believe was well founded at that time is certainly not going to change in the course of 3 weeks. 
It seems to me that the suggestion that we are opposed to the incorporation of the OTC at any time is not necessarily based on a correct assumption. We are saying, and saying quite specifically, that there does not appear to be a proper reason for incorporating the OTC in the Australian Telecommunications Commission at this time. We say that basically for the reason that the OTC is a highly effective and efficient organisation in its own right, and the Australian 
Telecommunications Commission, which it is hoped will become a highly efficient and effective organisation, is in its absolute infancy. Consequently it seems irresponsible to say that one should in that circumstance and at that time involve the merging, which would be the submergence, of the OTC into an as yet relatively untried Commission which has an enormous responsibility, which is of an enormous size and which has an enormous management problem. Those are basically the reasons why we think that for the time being at least there is no proper and substantial reason for the submergence- I was going to say subjugation but that is probably too tough and unnecessary a term- of the OTC into the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 

 Senator McAuliffe also referred to the uncertainty that was being created amongst the staff of the OTC, which is extremely efficient and which has extremely high morale. Well it should have high morale. But I cannot quite follow the logic of the uncertainty. In our view it is improper that the staff should be under challenge at this time.  Senator McAuliffe  said that if the OTC is incorporated in the Australian Telecommunications Commission the position of its staff will be better than ever. If the staff of the OTC has been highly satisfied with its position over the last 30 years it should be extremely happy, if it has any confidence at all in the attitudes promoted by  Senator McAuliffe. 
I believe that when the postal and telecommunications Bills were before the Senate some 3 weeks or so ago there was a very great measure of success and co-operation. The Bills which proposed the establishment of the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission contained some important built-in additions which the Government and the Opposition believed were necessary. Probably the most significant of these related to a policy guideline to enable the Minister, and naturally the Government, to act in the event of the Australian Telecommunications Commission being guided to too great an extent by the objective of making a massive profit. If this should become the total objective of a public utility- and it could be if viewed from an ivory tower- communications in Australia would perhaps be confined to the densely populated areas and to some extent the areas between them. Obviously it is in these areas that communications can and must be extremely profitable, but I do not believe that sheer profitability should be the total and only yardstick of a communications system in a country in which the capacity and standard of communications is of basic importance to every member of the community. Therefore it is immensely important that the Government and the Opposition should be in agreement on practical policy guidelines for the operation of the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
It is important that attention was drawn to the fact that the establishment of the Australian Telecommunications Commission could well involve the Australian people in very greatly increased costs. It is important that this should be noted because it is something to which the Australian people and the Australian Government must be alert for in the operation of communications organisations. Obviously in this case, where the Australian Telecommunications Commission is to be responsible for finding half of its operating capital from its own capacity to earn, there is bound to be a significant increase in the cost structure. The cost structure is also going to be affected by the circumstance which makes it necessary that the Government shall reimburse the Commission for any losses that it may suffer as a result of its recommended tariff not being accepted by the Minister. This is a circumstance which could involve very large amounts of money and these would be referable to the Australian taxpayer in the final instance, of course, and not to the user. Very often this Government has insisted that the people who pay should be the people who use, but where there is to be reimbursement of moneys that may be lost because of the difference between the proposed tariff of the Commission and the tariff allowed by the Minister, by the Government, indeed it is the Australian taxpayer who is paying and not the user. 
I want to make it quite clear that I believe that there is in this sort of circumstance a need for a proper measure of subsidy, but surely that subsidy must be related to efficiency. That has to be the yardstick in the operation of the Telecommunications Commission, as in the operation of any other commission. But that efficiency must take the total view of the development of the socio-economic circumstances- that is, of the total Australian community. It is terribly important that an organisation of communications should be concerned with the need to provide a first class communications service in those remote areas of Australia just as much as it is concerned with providing that type of communication facility in the populous areas which basically and in the main cover the coastal areas of this country. As I said, it seems to me a shame that, having come to a reasonable amount of agreement on the 2 major commissions, we should be involved in an argument again concerning the position of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission, which is a small but extremely efficient organism in the communications set-up in Australia. That is the argument in which we are involved. Once again the Opposition has determined that at this time it is of the opinion that the merging of the OTC into the Australian Telecommunications Commission is not a proper and necessary operation. Indeed, it is hard to see who is to be the beneficiary. It is certainly not to be the users of these telecommunications facilities; they are not going to get any better facility. It is certainly not going to be the Australian taxpayers, who may be involved in a still greater payout in subsidy. It is certainly not going to be any identifiable person or group of persons, employees or staff. It seems that a real reason has not been established for submerging an efficient, small organisation in an enormous organisation which unquestionably will have a very great number of problems to solve in the very near future. So neither the taxpayer nor the OTC itself will be the beneficiary. Nor will Australia be the beneficiary, because Australia could be the beneficiary only if it could be guaranteed that the operation of the OTC within the ATC was going to provide a better service for the consumers of telecommunication services around the world. In that area Australia stands in very high regard at this moment and has done for the past quarter of a century. If this sort of circumstance is not going to guarantee an improvement in that area, then it has virtually nothing at all to contribute if the merger should be brought about. 
I wish to look just briefly at the Overseas Telecommunications Commission itself. The OTC has been and is a most effective, small, wellorganised and managed, efficiently staffed communications entity. It has been so for some 30 years. As I have just said, it is held in very high regard in world communications circles. It was  Sir James  Vernon himself who said in the report of the Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office- his, of course, was a minority report- that the Australian Telecommunications Commission should have time to settle down before the overwhelming advantages of the OTC as a single entity were to be jeopardised. 
Twelve months is a relatively short time when we are talking in terms of the 30 years during which the OTC has been such an efficient and effective organisation. I believe that  Sir James  Vernon was probably quite right when he suggested that the effectiveness and the efficiency of the OTC could be jeopardised if it were to be submerged too quickly into the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
Let me make one or two references to the OTC operation because I believe it is important that we should be aware of the orgnisation with which we are concerned. It is really only this organisation that is the subject matter of this debate. It is a question of whether this Commission should be merged with an enormous entity or should remain as it is, that is, a single well identified and efficient entity, at least in the foreseeable future. I believe that it is quite significant to realise that an analysis of the consumers in the telecommunications sphere reveals that some 90 per cent of the consumers want to see the OTC remain as it is, that is, as an individual identity. The other 10 per cent of consumers merely have suggested that there should be time for them to analyse the performance of the Australian Telecommunications Commission in order to make a decision as to whether it is necessary and advisable that the OTC should be submerged in the larger body. It would be submerged because we are talking of 2 entities which employ 90 000 and 2000 people. In other words, the staff ratio of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission and Australian Telecommunications Commission would be one of the order of one to forty-five. It is difficult to imagine that in that circumstance the OTC could in any real sense retain its entity, and to retain its entity is to retain in all probability the morale and the efficiency that it has built up over the years. 
The OTC has a remarkable record. It has an annual growth rate of 14V4 per cent and statistically it has achieved quite an enormous performance. I wish to cite its performance during the last year of its operation. It handled some 25 million minutes of telephone calls, some 12Vi million minutes of telex messages and about 141 million words by way of telegrams. Whilst statistics do not prove all things, those statistics would tend to indicate that this is an immense organisation to be effectively and efficiently operated by 2000 people. 
The OTC was formed originally with a Treasury advance. It has been so successful that it has, since 1970, been paying to the Government interest at 7'/i per cent on consolidated capital of $35m. In 1973 its rate of interest increased to 8  lA  per cent. In 1974 the capital increased to $50m. On that amount the OTC paid interest at the rate of 10 per cent to the Australian Government. So, it has indeed been an effective and continuingly efficient organisation. 
In the course of this process it has been able, quite remarkably, to reduce its charges. That is a remarkable achievement almost anywhere around the world in these days. If the OTC were to be submerged in the ATC it would make a difference of about 0.4 of one per cent in the profit before interest of the ATC. That is on the assumption that the OTC in its merged state remained exactly as efficient and effective as it has been as an individual organisation. 
In closing let me once again record the view of the Opposition that the OTC has had freedom of action and with that freedom of action it has proved a most efficient and effective organisation. No possible reason has been advanced to this point to support the view that its performance would become better if it became part of a vast organisation such as the ATC. It may well be that at least in the foreseeable future this country would be well advised to leave this extremely efficient though small organisation as it is and let the 2 major and massive commissions develop into the expert communications organisations that we all hope they will be. 
-The Bill before the Senate is the States Grants (Beef Industry) Bill 1975. On behalf of the Opposition, I indicate that we are in full support of this Bill which proposes an additional loan to the industry of some $ 19.6m to be matched by the States on a dollar for dollar basis, and fortunately, on this occasion, at a much lower rate of interest than the previous loan to the beef industry. The States will receive these moneys in the proportions of $10m to Queensland, $5m to New South Wales, $2m to Victoria, $1,500,000 to South Australia, $800,000 to Western Australia and $300,000 to Tasmania. We support this Bill for the obvious reason that this extremely great primary industry is in dire straits at this time and indeed it is regrettably in a deteriorating condition still in the Australian scene. We believe that the Government must show the responsibility that it is now showing with respect to the beef industry in Australia, because that industry surely, amongst all the industries in this country, has in fact a great potential. There can be little doubt that in the ultimate and we hope in the not too far distant future, the industry will round the corner and once again become as significant in the economy of this country as it has been in the past. Consequently, I believe it is an industry which investment by the Government is not only proper but is certainly necessary. 
I believe that in the course of this debate I should make one or two brief references to the industry. I think it proper that the Senate should be aware of the extreme circumstances that exist and why they exist. There is in this industry a circumstance in which the price of the product has fallen by some 60 per cent to 80 per cent in 12 months. Regrettably, in that same industry the cost structure has increased by somewhere in the vicinity of 25 per cent. Those 2 elements of a lowering and still lowering price factor and a spiralling cost factor have contributed most significantly to the circumstances in which the industry finds itself. 
There are one or two areas to which I believe the Government quite properly should turn its attention. Unemployment in the beef producing industry is such that money should be made available in order to keep employees of that industry operating on the properties on which they have been living and operating over the years. There are 2 very good reasons to provide that money. In the first place, not only would it prevent their impending unemployment but it would maintain within the industry the skill and knowledge that is represented by those employees, and it would retain them in the communitiesin many cases in far flung areas of Australia- of which they and their families are significant members. The other reason for the provision of assistance obviously is that by making it possible to retain these people in the beef producing area of the industry, the capacity of the industry to keep and develop its assets at this particularly dangerous period of its existence would be maintained. Indeed, that asset is a great asset of the Australian people and the Australian economy. By retaining these skilled people in the industry, at least in a depressed period, it becomes possible to keep and develop that asset. 
Perhaps greater attention could have been paid in the industry to the programs for eradication of disease, and I believe that here in particular there arises the question of tuberculosis and brucellosis, which campaigns are running down at a time when, hopefully, they should have been increased. An increase in the campaigns at this stage could have been done quite obviously at lesser cost to the Government because of the unfortunately low price of the animals concerned. Secondly, it would have been of great value to take advantage of these campaigns at this time because as the industry climbs out of its trough it would have found itself with a much healthier and much better herd than otherwise may have been the case. I believe also that the Government should consider most seriously the question of suspending the 1.6c per lb export tax on beef. While that obviously would not alter the price of beef, it would in real terms change the net return to the grower. Export incentives in this industry have been curtailed; transport charges, fuel bunkering charges, freight and so forth have all risen dramatically, and unfortunately these are in the main a product of this Government's economic policies across a very wide field. 
Briefly, then, I indicate that the Opposition supports this Bill. The money is very necessary for the industry. It is an industry with a tremendous significance to the Australian economy and ultimately it will climb out of the trough it is in. But the Opposition does insist that there are positive measures that could and should be taken in addition to the provision of these loan moneys. So we would urge the Government to look at all these other possibilities of improving an industry which is in dire straits at the moment and which unquestionably will ultimately fulfil its potential in this economy. 
Again on behalf of the Opposition I indicate our firm support for these Wool Tax Bills. These Bills implement the proposal for a 250c per kilo reserve price for the coming 1975-76 season. They refer to the 5 per cent levy paid by producers to the market support fund and to the 2% per cent levy imposed for promotion and research purposes. The Bills also refer to the collection of those levies from all the sellers and handlers of wool whether they are inside or outside the auction system. It is most important that this legislation should come through this Parliament because the wool industry is of great significance in the Australian scene. The industry incidentally has been climbing out of one of its worst troughs. In this industry we have seen the base price for wool move from the 250c limit to 275c a few weeks ago. We have seen the trade purchasing 98 per cent and 99 per cent of the wool coming before it. These are superb signs of an industry, which probably more than any other is basic to the total balance of the rural economy, climbing out of yet another of its troughs. 
I believe that all people involved in this industry, all Australians, and certainly the Government, should be aware of the dangers of floating uncertainties in the context of an industry which is so basic and which, in all probability, is once again reaching a level of security, certainty and stability. Only a few weeks ago a kite was floated suggesting that the base price might be 200c. 
This followed long delay in announcing the base price. The consternation of the producer through to the processor, the manufacturer and the retailer was intense all around the world. It was fortunate that that circumstance was not allowed to continue and that Caucus was able on that occasion to over-rule the Cabinet decision. If there is one thing that this industry must have in order to achieve and retain stability it is confidence. That confidence was severely shaken on that occasion. What a situation we would have had in this country if by such an action we literally had sold out to the eastern and western European users of wool by writing down the base price by some 50c a kilo. 
I do not want to delay the Senate's discussion of this Bill because we of the Opposition support it for excellent reasons. However I want to make one or two references to matters in the industry. The people of Australia, the taxpayers, from time to time hear stories of handouts to the great wool industry and of how the taxpayers are carrying it. I believe we should look at the industry very briefly in that context. People should be aware that in the last 12 months this industry, although not in as dire straits as the beef industry perhaps, has suffered a pretty serious crisis. In a period of 12 months it had seen the price of its product fall by some 65c a kilo while at the same time it was faced with an increase in its cost structure of not less than 37 per cent due to various economic policies that bear extremely heavily on the Australian wool industry. 
I want to refer once again to the necessity to erase the view that this great industry is heavily dependent on the Austraiian taxpayers. On the contrary, the moneys that support this industry are in the nature of loan moneys. They are provided as a commercial venture and carry an 1 1 per cent interest rate. As security for those moneys there is a substantial stockpile of wool in the hands of the Australian Wool Corporation. Those moneys are not subject to any great risk. More importantly still, people should realise that the producers themselves contribute 5 per cent to a market support fund of some $50m in round figures. This fund provides the moneys necessary for interest payments and handling charges. Indeed, it can be called on in the first instance to recover any losses by the Corporation. Moreover, by means of a direct  2V*  per cent levy on gross return the industry contributes money for promotion and research within the wool trade. These moneys, the 7% per cent of gross takings, as was indicated as a result of a question in this place by  Senator Laucke  recently, are moneys which are never received by the Australian wool producer, yet on which he pays commission. That is a question at which in the future some real inquiry will be directed. 
We support these Bills fully because we are aware of the absolute necessity for a basic stability in this industry which is more referable to the total balance of the rural scene than probably any other industry. It is in the wool industry that Australia produces the most and the best. Indeed, to quote the words of  Dr Patterson  back in the days when the Australian Wool Commission was being formed to give an indication of his view of the wool industry: 
The wool industry, without a shadow of doubt, is the most efficient export industry Australia has had since it was settled by white men. 
That is a remarkably fine credential coming from a spokesman from the Australian Labor Party. We support this legislation and we trust that the dismay and uncertainty that has come across, and hopefully drifted away from, this great industry will never be allowed to arise again. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. In the light of the historic link between the repatriation structure and the Returned Services League, will the Minister give to the Senate an undertaking that no changes will take place in the Department, its status or structure before consultations are held with the RSL and other national ex-service organisations? Will the Minister not agree that the voice of the RSL should be heard on all committees relating to the welfare of ex-servicemen and women? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence relates to the Government's decision to abolish school cadet training. Would the Minister not agree that such training is an integral part of our national defence preparedness and that it has the other tangible national advantages of character moulding, self discipline and the development of a spirit of comradeship and citizenship. Would he not agree that such military training of school children occurs in most other countries around the world and in virtually all communist countries and that a recent public opinion poll disclosed that 76 per cent were in favour of the continuance of cadet training in schools and only 18 per cent were against it? I ask therefore whether the Government will reconsider its decision to abolish cadet training and arrange instead for its continuance in all schools and that military training and equipment be upgraded realistically. 
The background to this Budget is a social and economic morass which is, regrettably, of the Government's making. It is not something that has been imported into this country. Indeed, I believe that we find the problems of economic and social areas as they are because the policies of this Government since coming to office appear to me to have been directed more particularly towards the establishment of an ideological position or a circumstance with reference to the state than to the economic and social needs of the Australian community. I think that there is a great danger in what has been the occurrences of the past 2  lA  years to 3 years. There is the great danger that the Australian community may be in some way being conditioned into a state of mind in which it has to accept unemployment and inflation at high levels as being the norm. In that circumstance, the Australian public would tend to be brainwashed into believing that the mother state can see it through. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it was, I think, Tolstoy who said of history that it is the story of the inevitable. If indeed it is the story of the inevitableand that may be somewhat simplistic- it is the province of government in a free democracy to ensure that that inevitability comes about not in weeks, months or years, but in the process of decades- indeed, of centuries. In the Australian circumstances, that inevitability must be brought about surely by the process of evolution, not revolution. I believe that the extreme circumstances in which this country finds itself today are in a very real sense related to the extraordinary eagerness of the socialist government, when in power after some 23 years, to implement a circumstance that, if it becomes a fact at all, may well become a fact after decades or centuries and not in the process of a mere  2Vi  years. 
-No, I believe that it is unfortunate that the Government should have attempted in its extraordinary eagerness to establish by such dramatic methods in the short term a circumstance that cannot in fact be achieved even in a generation or perhaps in a century. I think that that is the reason why we find in large degree the social and economic problems that confront us and which confronted this Government as it approached the preparation of this Budget. It is in the context of this Budget, along with the other Budgets, that I believe the Government has attempted to do the dramatic rather than to evolve a set of circumstances which would create a proper measure of development in the Australian situation. 
When I say that the Government has tended to be dramatic in its changes, I think of a number of actions. I have not the time to go over the vast range of them in my speech tonight. I think of some of its actions. I think of the immediate 25 per cent cut in tariffs across the board, a totally illogical action which was almost the first move in the first Budget of this Government. That action was a dramatic and unnecessary attack. Indeed, it was one of the foundations of the unemployment and inflation that beset the community today. 
Further, there has been a consistent drive towards the nationalisation of health in this country, regardless of the unknown and spiralling cost to the taxpayer. The cost is already estimated at $ 1,445m. It has every possibility of climbing to perhaps $2,000m. That is a radical change, and it is the radical nature of change with which I am concerned. That change is a tremendous impost on every Australian taxpayer. Indeed, as the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  told us earlier today it is an imposition already of some $289 per taxpayer. Not only is that an imposition on the taxpayer but also it is an imposition on the freedom of choice of the community in the area of health care and health provision. 
Again, in the dramatic actions of this Government which have spelt out the circumstances which are the prelude to what we find today, we must recall the immediate and strong rubbing away of all the incentives and compensation which had been built up over a generation. Rubbed away in one foul swoop were incentives and compensations which were of immense value to the total Australian economy and, in particular, to those areas of traditional primary production, that is, meat, fibre, grain, and dairy produce as well as the areas of mineral and oil exploration and development. I mention also education and decentralisation. The removal of these incentives and compensations has meant a steady movement of disaster across the major area of that part of the Australian community. 
The Budget has also made an attack, I believe, on the insurance industry in the area of rebates. I shall refer to that aspect briefly later. Indeed, in making that sort of attack on that part of the economy the Government is in fact attacking an area of significant investment to the Australian people, an area of significant employment and an area concerned with a large measure of economic and social development in this country. There has been by the socialist government over the years of its office a constant movement of emphasis from the private sector to the public sector. It started with  Mr Crean  's Treasurership in 1973 with a 20 per cent movement into the public sector. It has continued in 1 974 with a 32.4 per cent movement which became a 46 per cent increase in public expenditure. Finally, this year the Government has recognised the problem. But we are still confronted with an estimated 23 per cent increase in public expenditure which will, on the evidence of previous years, end up being closer to 40 per cent. I think it is pertinent that I should remind the Senate of several of the statements of  Mr Hayden  in the prelude to his 
Budget. These were sensible statements. Amongst other things, he said: 
Three out of four employees are in the private sector and, consequently, there are firm limits on how far the public sector should be stimulated. 
Further, he said: 
Inflation is the nation 's most menacing enemy. 
Yet, 15 months ago, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would not recognise it. Further,  Mr Hayden  said: 
The present level of unemployment is too high. If inflation is not controlled, unemployment will get worse. 
Of course it will. But he fails to observe as Australians are now observing that the circumstance has been nurtured by the policies of the Government. But  Mr Hayden  has said: 
To make 1975-76 a better year, steady and responsible economic policies are needed, and to reduce unemployment lastingly recovery in the private sector is essential. 
Of course these are truisms, they are obvious facts. But the question which concerns me is: Why has it taken 3 Treasurers and 3 years to admit that this is the circumstance? If that is the circumstance, what hope is there of a real measure of confidence returning to the economy of this country while it remains in the hands of the present Government? The Budget is a wideranging document, and tonight I intend to make just a few general observations and perhaps refer more particularly to the rural and export sector of the economy, for it is in that sector that we find the greatest number of small business operativesthe family farmer, the corner storekeeper, the garage proprietor, the electrician and the plumber. All these people have borne, and are bearing, the brunt- indeed a measure of liquidation of the policies of the past 2 2 1/2 years. 
I believe it is depressing that there should be in the reduction in income tax, small though it is- I understand that it runs to some $20 5m- an extreme measure of patchiness. The figure of $20 5m has to be looked at in the light of an increased revenue of some $2,700m. It is not really a sizable reduction in taxation in terms of that increased revenue. The revenue is relative to the assumption that there will be a 22 per cent increase in wages in the current year, which is hardly conducive to controlling inflation which the Treasurer says is the prime object of this Budget. I believe that this income tax reduction has to be considered in relation to the savage increases in indirect taxation. The figure of $205m has to be measured, for instance, against the figure of $234m referable to the added excise on beer alone- to say nothing of the increased postage and telegraphic charges, the increased telephonic charges and the increased excise on spirits, tobacco and so on. So the indirect charges are tremendously in excess of the reduction in income tax. 
I pause at this point to exemplify an earlier reference that I made to the danger of conditioning a society to assume that unemployment and inflation are the norms and that the mother state can look after whatever circumstance may arise. The phasing out of the Regional Employment Development scheme which, I understand, is to occur in the next few months will result in increased unemployment, but I think it is fair that we should remark something of the scheme's performance. Surely it has provided employment It has meant relief for significant numbers of the unemployed, and it is a proper province of a government to provide such relief. But it has done it at the expense of instead of on behalf of the ratepayers. It has not done it with reference to the priorities of local government. More than that, I suggest that the rate of pay under this scheme is often in excess of the pay that has been, and is being, earned by people employed in their normal areas of employment. Consequently, the scheme has tended to develop a measure of discontent which is certainly not conducive to a satisfied community. 
I refer now to the $540 rebate on income tax which is to be claimable whether the money has been spent or not. Surely this circumstance must lead to a measure of irresponsibility. It must encourage indolence and irresponsibility. I suggest that it is providing a disincentive to enterprise at a time when enterprise is essential in this whole economy. The $540 rebate is payable unless it be a lesser amount than 40 per cent of the total amount of insurance premiums, medical expenses and so on. Of course, this means that there will be a disincentive on the part of people to avail themselves of a measure of independence; in other words, to look after themselves. People are being told that they might as well let the state do it because they get the $540 rebate regardless of whether they spend the money or not. Consequently, it will tend to destroy the capacity of people to look after themselves and to provide for themselves. It will lessen the capacity of insurance companies in the life insurance field in particular to provide a source of investment, an area of economic and social development and a significant area of employment. 
Insofar as the proposal does this, that is, lessens the ability and desire of people to provide life assurance for themselves, it will make more unbearable than ever the impost of estate duties which bear heavily on many of the relatively small enterprises in this community. This Budget, in common with the last Budget, has failed even to relate the rates of estate duty to inflation, let alone to attack the problem of the abolition of estate duty, because surely there has never been a time when the case for abolition of this duty is stronger than it is today. If ever we needed to provide incentive to the family, to the individual, to private enterprise, we need to do it now, and this is one simple area in which we could make a start. It is an area which would involve a loss to the revenue to this country of but 0.4 of 1 per cent or 0.8 of 1 per cent of the net income tax return. I suggest that it would be expenditure which would be more than returned by added productivity and the relief that would follow the waiving of this destructive form of taxation. 
I turn briefly to look at the rural sector. It is a very widespread part of our Australian community. It concerns a vast area of producers. It concerns directly all the people who live in the towns and provincial cities, as well as on the farmlands of Australia. It is concerned with the decentralisation of industry and commerce. It provides in excess of 80 per cent of our export or overseas credit. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that in the 12 months ended March 1975, the increase in cost in the rural sector amounted to 33 per cent, or approximately twice the rate of inflation in that year. Of course, actual costs increased by only about 12 per cent. Regrettably that was so purely because of the total inability of the rural sector to find more than that sort of money for the maintenance and development of its asset. 
That figure has to be viewed against the 13 per cent drop in the average price of the product of primary industry. This figure itself is deceptive, for it must be related to the highest prices for wheat ever seen on world markets, and to the fact that there was a drop of 34 per cent in prices in the wool industry and a drop of 73 per cent in prices in the beef industry. 

 Mr Deputy President, let me draw your attention to one or two of the areas in the rural sector which could have been and should have been treated with great consideration in this Budget. They are areas which are among those that were radically distorted, destroyed and swept away at the beginning of this socialist Government's assumption of power. I refer to but a few. I refer to the reimposition which has not occurred to this point, of the superphosphate bounty. Its abolition represented a saving of a mere $56m which, in terms of revenue from tax of nearly $9,000m, does not seem to be an extortionate figure. That $56m has to be placed against the sort of added production and added revenue to the Treasury that it represents. In fact, I should point out that it has been estimated that a base price of $25 per tonne for superphosphate ex-works in Australia would cost approximately $ 140m and that from its use the Treasury would gain in added income tax alone an estimated $200m, thereby making $60m credit on the deal. I believe that this is an obvious area in which the Government could and should have acted. Instead, after waiting for so long, it has apparently to this point totally ignored the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission in this area. 
Unless profits are madereasonable profits in the proper context- this community, this country, has little if any hope of survival. It is in that context- I thank  Senator Sheil  for that comment- that this sort of bounty and this sort of action that should have taken place is so important. In the area of soil, water and fodder conservation, in the area of income equalisation and in many other areas that have been rubbed away by the policies of this Government, there has been a total failure to admit that the reimposition of these incentives- the adoption of these attitudes- will be one significant way in which the private sector can start moving again and in which a real measure of employment and a real measure of productivity will return to our sorely tested economy. Indeed in the wool industry itself the reimposition of a bounty on superposphate, thereby enabling a greater amount of phosphate to be used, would increase the carrying capacity and would improve the cut and the fibre of each sheep. 
The beef industry is in a situation which certainly is not of this Government's making, but there are measures that could and should have been taken in the beef industry. They are obvious measures and, indeed, not extremely expensive measures- not extremely expensive in the terms of an industry which quite clearly has a prominent, useful and important future in the total context of the Australian economy. It is an industry which is probably in a trough of a duration of perhaps one year or two years. Moneys spent in enabling the survival and maintenance of that industry must be moneys well spent. In that circumstance the Government has yet again failed to waive even the 1.6c per lb export levy on beef. It has also failed to speed up the program for the eradication of disease in the Australian herd. As time goes by and the herd once again becomes valuable it will become obvious how much more important it is that it should be a healthy herd. The eradication of disease could be earned out now at a far lesser figure on a compensation basis than at any other time. 
There has been no attempt, for instance, to rub out the costly dual inspection at abattoirs, and the money that is available in this industry seems to be available only at high rates of interest and only on the production of a virtually insolvent position by a farmer. Indeed I wonder why, in the promotion of the Regional Employment Development scheme, the Government has not seen fit to make the moneys allocated to it available to the beef farmer himself and to those he employs to keep them on the properties and enable them to maintain and develop those particularly important areas of the Australian asset. 
I wish to refer just briefly now to another area of the Australian economy that has run down at an alarming pace in the past  2Vi  years. It is an area of extreme importance and an area from which something was whipped away in the savagery to which I referred earlier- a savagery that was related to the haste that the Government felt that it must use in establishing its own ideology in the Australian scene. I refer to the mining and petroleum industries. Once again no form of incentive and no form of compensation has been introduced. Indeed, what do we see? We see a levy being imposed on coal of $6 per tonne for coking coal and $2 per tonne for steaming coal. We also see an increase in the excise on petrol, which will increase the price of that product to Australian industry and to the Australian user, whether he be a motorist or a man of commerce or industry, by anything from 6c to 10c a gallon. That is the Government's contribution to the mining and petroleum industries. 
I believe that it is pertinent to remind Australians of what has been happening in those industries in the past 2Vi years. Since December 1972 only one mining project has been established. That has been established at the cost of $40m. I refer to the phosphate operation at Duchess. In the period from 1960 to 1972 there were 34 major projects established in this country at a cost of some $6,000m. Since December 1 972, 1 7 major projects involving uranium, coal, bauxite, alumina, nickel and so on have been cancelled or deferred. Since December 1972 only one new mining town has been established, compared with the establishment of 22 such towns in the period from 1960 to 1972. In that period 22 new towns were established in Queensland, the Northern Territory, Western Australia and Tasmania. I think it is important to recognise that in 1 969 there were 322 wells drilled and that the number likely to be drilled in 1 975 is 3 1 . As a result of what happened in the period prior to 1972 the mining and petroleum industries have meant to Australians generally an average annual earning of some $ 1,300m and a saving annually in the cost of fuel to Australian consumers of some $ 1,000m; yet the significance of those great industries has once again been ignored in this Budget. Only an impost remains to be seen. 
Finally, I refer again to the statement by  Mr Hayden  in his preface to the Budget when he said that 'the Budget is a choice between more or less difficult alternatives'. Of course it is, and the choice is a poor one. It would be a poor one to whoever may be confronted with it. But let us make no mistake about it- the choice is the choice of the Government's own establishment. The choice is the choice between the circumstances that the Government has in fact promoted and nurtured. I refer in closing to  Senator McAuliffe  's remark that members ofthe Opposition were prophets of doom. Let me say that I believe that there has been established in this Budget debate on behalf of the Opposition a very clear and constructive program for this country. But if we are prophets of doom, and of course we are not, it is better to be prophets than the perpetrators of doom, as has been the habit and manner of the members of the present socialist Government . I endorse the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator James  McClelland) adjourned. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy: Is the Government concerned about the criticism levelled at Australia's minerals and energy policy by a leading Japanese industrialist? Is it now apparent that the restrictive policies of the Minister for Minerals and Energy have cast grave doubts on Australia's ability to develop the mineral resources needed by its trading partners? Will the Government heed the advice, which has been ignored for more than 2 years, that Australia can go a long way towards easing its own and the world's recession by encouraging rather than stifling the development of mineral resources? 
I address a question to the Minister for Agriculture. In view of misleading statements which from time to time suggest that the Government's contribution to the Wool Marketing Corporation is a subsidy hand-out rather than a commercial loan, to clarify the position I ask the Minister: Is not Government participation purely the guarantee of a loan at commercial rates of interest? Will not the Corporation pay the Government about $37.5m this year in interest- a fact which further reduces the net appropriation to the Corporation, compared with the figure widely publicised? Is it not also a fact that the grower levy provides the Corporation with some $50m cash annually to cover interest and any short-term trading loss? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Education inform the Senate how many 1974 school leavers returned to school because they were unable to find jobs? Did they create accommodation, teaching or school administration problems? What will be the position this year when the number of school leavers reaches a record of 230 000? As it has been estimated that at least 80 000 school leavers will be unable to find jobs, will the schools be capable of accepting them back in 1976? Has the Government conducted a survey to determine the extent of the problem and how it might be overcome? If not, will it do so quickly? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDNaturally the honourable senator will be aware that the information that he has sought is not available immediately to me. Therefore I ask him to place the question on the notice paper. 
I address my question to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to the Minister's acclamation of the recent New Zealand and South African decisions to adjust their reserve wool prices in line with their currency devaluations. Particularly in view of his answer to  Senator Walsh  this morning, I ask: Will the Minister give an assurance that Australia would fully and promptly adjust its reserve price in the event of any change in the valuation of Australian currency? Is not the wool industry's stability and confidence in the near and more distant future largely dependent on such an assurance? 
I enter the debate on these excise tariff Bills briefly, somewhat in amazement that people such as the Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Whitlam)  and, indeed, the one time Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  should be involving themselves with this threat- in fact imposition- of indirect taxation. They have on so many occasions in the past abused Liberal and Country Party governments on that very issue and for that very program. Yet we are debating today excise Bills which in their very own nature involve a distinct and quite dramatic increase in indirect taxation. What a strange confidence trick it is in the context of this Budget that these Bills concern, in less than a year, something like an increase in tax of $721 m on the ordinary consumers in so many fields in Australia and that that $72 1 m has to be related to the alleged saving to the taxpayer in income tax of some $205 m. In other words, the taxpayer in the Australian scene is to be no less than $500m worse off as a result of these Bills alone. 
It seems to me that quite clearly we are examining what is nothing more or less than a simple case of increased taxation- indirect but nevertheless increased taxation. This is going to be revealed and has been revealed from the very inception in increases in prices, directly and indirectly, across a very wide scale- across a very wide canvas, indeed. Not only do we see the price of a bottle of beer or the price of a gallon of fuel being increased; not only do we see the price of liquid petroleum gas to the communities of many cities and towns increased as a result of these levies, but we see also the indirect effects of these direct price increases. The indirect effects are felt in the areas of freight, fares, power generation and, indeed, across a whole canvas of the Australian economy. These indirect increases result purely from the taxes- from levies. 
Surely this measure of taxation in these Bills is in no small way a betrayal of the trade unionist and the working man for these Bills are significantly placing beyond the reach of the trade unionist and the working man many of the goods which in his own judgment- and assuming, indeed, that he is an intelligent and well versed individual, a judgment he should be prepared and able to make- constitute his demand and consumption pattern. These goods are being placed perhaps outside his capacity to avail himself of them. So these measures are most definitely a disadvantage to the many Australian trade unionists and workers. It cannot be sustained that although some 500 000 Australians allegedly will as a result of the Budget not be paying direct income tax- of course, ultimately the figure will be dependent upon the actual wages and salaries that are received- indeed those 500 000 people, if that is the number, will be unable to avail themselves of many of the things to which, with their own manner of selfdiscipline, they feel entitled to avail themselves. In this circumstance I say again that these Bills impose a levy on many people that is basically unjustified. They are purely and simply matters related to revenue. 
Of course, the increases in these particular areas of excise are felt extremely heavily in rural communities- in the towns, on the farms and in the provincial cities. The cost of fuel, of freight and all those associated charges bear perhaps more heavily on the people in the relatively remote areas of Australia than on any other sections of the community. The small business people are hit heavily by the sort of legislation that we are examining this afternoon. I have had brought to my notice by many local government bodies in New South Wales- particularly in the centre and south-west of New South Wales- the extraordinarily damaging effects that the $2 a tonne imposition on crude oil is having on the liquid petroleum gas prices to the community in these areas. Indeed, it has been brought to my attention that in the municipality of Parkes in New South Wales- this is just one of many municipal councils from which I have heard- the added impost has meant an increase in the cost of LPG to councils of some $24.88 a tonne which is an increase of some 59 per cent. This is a damaging and dangerous situation and one which I hope the Government will look at very seriously indeed because many councils have been committed over the past 4, 5 or 6 years to involving themselves in very large capital expenditure in order to be able to reticulate this particular type of energy producing material. 
So it seems to me that these customs excise taxes are really, amongst other things, an attack on the coal industry and on any industry that appears to be buoyant. It is an extraordinary circumstance that this Government seems to take the view that wherever there is some abundance of profit, even though that may be just transitory, that profit has to be attacked. In this case it is being attacked by a levy and not by a normal taxation process. If profits were attacked, as they are normally attacked, by the normal process of taxation then funds to the Treasury would be swollen. The industry would remain keen and develop at the rate which this country needs so badly. These levies of $6 a tonne on high grade coking coal and $2 a tonne on steaming coal which thank goodness is to be adjusted, must be seen with considerable dismay by the industry. One must recall that the coal industry in Australia has not been forever at a high point. Very few industries are in a situation in which they know not what booms and depressions are all about. The coal industry has probably had more than its share of periods when it was in a depressed state. I believe that is unfair to describe the industry as one enjoying windfall profits. Whatever profit the industry may be enjoying, it is surely as a result of a demand and supply situation in the world market for coal. The profit cannot justly be described as a windfall. For instance, the price of coal in Australia today is something like $20 a ton less than the cost in the United States. So if our industry is accused of making a windfall profit, what must the circumstances be in the United States? 
I reiterate that the profits which are coming to the industry now are not the result of conniving. They are the result of the normal supply and demand situation in the world market place for coal. While that happens to be high at the moment, it has been low in the past. Who knows but that it may well be low at some time in the future. As I am talking briefly about the profit in the coal industry it may be pertinent that I ask: What in itself is so damaging or so basically wrong in finding that the industry is producing a significant profit? I reiterate once again that whether it be an individual, a corporation, a company, a government or a State, in the long term its capacity to make a profit within the law is directly relevant to its capacity to sustain the community. If there is a profit in this industry should we not be pleased that that is the circumstance rather than abuse the industry and levy it in a manner which may well destroy its opportunity and Australia's opportunity to use and develop the markets which are, at least in the near future, apparently ensured. 
Rather than placing on the industry the leaden hand of socialism through these levies and these excise duties we should be feeling a measure of excitement that we are producing various things with great profitability and that we have the opportunity of involving many people in employment and many assets in development. The small ventures and the new - ventures will be almost totally stopped by the set of levy which will be implemented by these Bills. It may well be that in 10 years or 1 5 years- more or less- coal may find itself under very severe competition in the energy producing sector from all sorts of other sources such as nuclear power, water, solar radiation and so on down the line. In other words there is a temporary circumstance at the moment in which there is a fine demand for this source of energy. Surely the intelligent thing as a nation would be to use the circumstances which are around us and to make sure that we develop as a result of them. The higher prices in the industry gives us a positive capacity to increase the production of coal in this country. 
It is estimated that some 20 million tonnes of coal a year will be required by Japan alone by 1980.  Mr Connor  speaks of a program, although he has not been always totally successful. I understand that he has cost the industry something like $ 100m this year in his negotiations for prices. But if we have the capacity to sell an extra 20 million tonnes of coal by 1980 then we must use all the profits we can find to develop the industry so that it has the capacity to produce that amount of coal. To develop the industry to that point will involve a massive investment of more than $2,000m in port facilities, transport, housing and so forth if we are to be able to increase our capacity to export coal to the extent of some 20 million tonnes a year by 1 980. 
As a corollary to all this I point out that surely by penalising the industry we are penalising the community. The sooner we recognise this the better. We should adjust our legislation with that in view. Of course if these disincentives or levies were not applied the Treasury would benefit very dramatically because of the increase in taxes which it would receive from the companies and operators involved in this industry and others. The sovereign States of Australia would increase their revenue from royalties significantly. Under this proposal they achieve nothing at all because their royalties are a percentage of the price of coal. So anything which is relevant to a levy has no effect at all on the States' capacity to produce and to collect royalties. This is more essential today than ever before because the States, like the Commonwealth, face a circumstance of inflation never known in this country at any other time. 
I now look at the situation of crude oil, on which an export levy of $2 a barrel has been imposed. The effect of this in the first place is purely and simply to increase the revenue. There is good reason why the Government should seek urgently to increase its revenue. It faces a Budget deficit of some $2, 800m. Last year it thought that it would face a deficit of $500m but at the end of 12 months it found that the amount was $2,300m. Consequently, its capacity to control the economy of this country is in some considerable measure of doubt. In view of this one can understand the desperate measures it takes in seeking revenue. Of course, these levies are a form of revenue. But how much better if they could result in a form of incentive. The Commonwealth Government has taken away all incentive from the oil exploration and development industry with quite tragic results. Those results will be made even worse by the levy of $2 a barrel on crude oil. This is a straight levy. There will be no reference to the price of oil to the producer and there will be no increase in the capacity of the producer or operator to extend the development of his field or to extend to other fields. It is tragic, when one looks at the history of oil exploration and development in Australia, to find that, largely as a result of the policy of the last three or four years, the 121 exploratory holes seeking oil which were drilled around the Australian coastline in 1970 have been reduced to 14 in the first 6 months of this year. Even if drilling continues at that rate, and that is doubtful, there may well be only 28 holes drilled seeking oil this year. There are 2 rigs operating around the Australian coast out of 17 available, and yet the only contribution by the Government to the industry is the imposition of a levy of $2 a barrel on crude oil. 
In the oil industry as in any other industry, unless there is incentive, unless there is profitability within the law, there will be no development, and that situation will affect adversely every single Australian. Still referring to the oil and fuel situation, it is anticipated that given the current circumstances, in 5 years this country will be producing barely 40 per cent of its oil requirements. As a result of exploration and development over the past 10 to 15 years we now produce nearly 70 per cent of our requirements. That figure will be reduced to 40 per cent by 1980 and 30 per cent by 1982. I believe it is important to realise the cost to the community created by the failure to develop our resources. For instance, I referred to the capacity of this country to produce and sell another 20 million tonnes of coal per annum. That in itself is significant within our economy in creating jobs, in creating homes, in creating a transport system, and in improving and developing ports. It is also vastly significant in that it would increase our overseas earning capacity by some $ 1,000m annually. 
Conversely, in the case of oil, if we are to produce only 40 per cent of our oil needs in 1 980 we will be involved in an annual outlay for imports of some $ 1,500m, even assuming that prices remain as they are today. By 1982 that figure may well be in excess of $2,000m. The massive investment in and development of the coal industry which is capable of occurring in present circumstances can be destroyed in large measure- destroyed in many places in Queensland, destroyed in many places in New South Wales.  Senator Baume  has referred to the situation in Lithgow. The situation is no less significant in the Hunter Valley; it is no less significant on the South Coast or in the Newcastle area, where there are dramatic possibilities, given a proper measure of encouragement. But the only measure we see is a measure of total discouragement. 
In concluding my remarks on these Bills, might I reiterate once again that it is an extremely bad system of taxation to tax exports in a country in which exports are the cornerstone of its economy, of its total community, whether we like it or not. Those are the circumstances in which Australia has found itself and they are the circumstances in which Australia is likely to remain in the foreseeable future. There could be no more damaging attitude than the attitude of a government which imposes export taxes. That problem was referred to by  Senator Baume  in the case of the cattle industry. Indeed, one or two of our major export industries, considered in the context of the cost structure of the economy, certainly cannot afford export taxes. Even the relatively buoyant wheat industry in Australia today, when it is measured against the cost of capital equipment, against interest rates, against the cost of superphosphate, the cost of labour and so forth, can afford to retreat hardly more than a few cents or it too will be a relatively difficult position. 
I do not believe it is nonsense, and I am quite sure that if  Senator Walsh  referred that statement to the wheat producers of this country and to the organisations that represent them he would find that it is far from nonsense and quite easily substantiated. The position of the wool industry, with its cost structure, is equally dangerous, and I was very disappointed this morning when the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  in answering a question, was not prepared to say that the Government would support totally any necessary variation in the base price of wool that resulted from any change in currency valuations. The wool industry is running virtually on a line ball, and in that situation export taxes and so on would be anathema to it. Any increased costs in the industry would create an even more damaging situation for the rural .communities of this country. 
Let me say again that these excise duties, these levies, these 3 Bills that the Senate is discussing cognately today, unfortunately all contribute to a situation which will tend to drive down the capacity of this country to find, to research and to develop its magnificent natural resources, resources which in many cases are extremely valuable today and tomorrow will be of a value nobody knows. It is a dreadful reflection on a government which is responsible for an economy that it should be creating a circumstance where those sorts of opportunities may well flash by without the whole community being able to gain the proper benefit that should come its way. 
Does the Minister for Agriculture still maintain that the income tax averaging system for primary producers has not been eroded by the August Budget? Is it not a fact that dependants' allowances and concessional deductions have been excluded and that taxation therefore must be higher? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. As the Government has retreated in some measure from the $2 a tonne levy on certain coal, will the Minister move for the same or hopefully stronger action in regard to the $2 a barrel or $24.88 a tonne payable on indigenous crude oil? I ask the question with particular reference to the problem of local government councils which have spent large amounts on the installation of gas reticulation capacity over 5 or 6 years and for which the impost means increased cost of up to 59 per cent? Is the policy of the Government to provide Australian resources for Australians only at prices determined overseas? 
I rise to oppose the 5 Bills dealing with electoral redistribution that are before the Senate. I want to confine my remarks to a number of general statements and a general argument. I intend to conclude by making a more specific reference to my own State of New South Wales. It is quite clear- obviously there can be no other way- that we will be reiterating many of the points which have been made on other occasions in a debate such as this. If indeed we do reiterate some of these points it emphasises rather than diminishes the importance of the legislation that is before us. Relative to the continuity and development of a democracy must surely be, basically, the electoral system, the electoral laws and, indeed, the distribution of electorates under which that democracy operates. If we spend some time in discussing this sort of matter we are discussing something that is basic to our governmental and parliamentary system. A redistribution must be, of necessity, related to the need to rub out electoral inequalities and, indeed, to the need from time to time to establish that the right number of electorates are in existence in each of the States of this Commonwealth. 
I believe that neither of those bases can be found to be in existence at this time. Therefore, they are not in urgent need of treatment. I believe that the redistribution that is before us is unnecessary on a number of grounds. The whole matter is still before the High Court. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  said in his opening address in this debate, the evidence of the most recent elections in this country, percentage-wise and seat-wise, has suggested on 2 occasions in the last 3 years that a vote of slightly less than 50 per cent has produced a government in power with slightly more than 50 per cent of the seats. I believe that if that is the situation- indeed it is- then it is virtually impossible to get a system which is closer to electoral fairness and real justice than is exhibited by the results of those elections. So far as the various electorates are concerned, how silly and unnecessary it is that we should be looking seriously at a redistribution proposition in this particular year. It is only a matter of months before the 1 976 census is held. Surely it would be far more sensible to introduce such legislation at a time when the census had revealed that a redistribution was necessary than to rush into a redistribution at this time which can, at best, serve perhaps only one election. It is surely one of the essential bases of our democratic parliamentary system that we should have a situation in which electorates remain relatively unchanged for quite specific periods. I say that in all seriousness. I say it because it is of great value to the Australian elector himself that he become identified with a specific electorate- with its social and economic problems, with its topographical circumstancesand understands its problems and the problems of the people there. It is equally important that there should be a real measure of time between redistributions in order that those people who represent the electors in the various electorates have an opportunity to identify themselves with those areas and their priorities. 
A circumstance which would admit of a redistribution in one year followed by another redistribution the next year is most unstable and most undesirable. That is the situation which would confront us if we were to pass the redistribution legislation which is before us. Indeed, the redistribution proposal that is with us today is based on a variance of 10 per cent as a margin of tolerance between electorates which has, to this point, been 20 per cent. It is interesting to remember that even the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the days before he was Prime Minister approved the idea that 20 per cent was indeed a reasonable margin in view of the various disabilities of varying electorates across the land. The fact that the percentage of tolerance has been reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent is significant in itself, but even more significant is the way in which the tolerance has been applied to this particular redistribution. It has been applied in a manner which has produced the greatest number of electors in those electorates which have because of size the greatest physical disabilities to attain an equality of representation. Surely when we are talking of equality- we always seem to be doing that- we must be talking of equality of the value and standard of representation. I do not believe that it is possible to solve this problem by a mere statistic. Nor is it possible ever to retain within the electorates in this country, or in any country, a circumstance in which the various electorates have the same number of electors. Indeed, if that were to be the object redistributions would have to take place almost on a monthly basis. 
-I suggested that that would be the only way in which the sort of circumstance which would provide identical numbers of electors in electorates would in any way be possible. As often happens when the Labor Party discusses the matter of electoral redistribution,  Senator Melzer  took some exception to the views of the National Country Party. Of course, that in itself does not concern us. The fact that honourable senators opposite find it somewhat irritating that the National Country Party proposes the views and attitudes that it does does not concern us at all. Indeed, it is a compliment to us. 
We have a very great concern indeed about electoral justice. We are concerned to see that equality of representation is related to the value and the capacity of that representation. It has been suggested by  Mr Daly  on numbers of occasions, with his usual somewhat distorted sense of humour, that the National Country 
Party is concerned with arranging for votes for sheep and goats. I think scrub wallabies were also introduced into the debate this morning by  Senator Mulvihill.  Of course, that may be the view of honourable senators opposite, it may be the view of  Mr Daly  and it may be attractive to his particular type of sense of humour, but the facts are that this redistribution which  Mr Daly  promotes with such a measure of urgency month after month is a redistribution which would establish in the Australian scene a necessity for a Liberal-National Country Party coalition to achieve 55 per cent of the votes in order to attain government and would enable the Labor Party to achieve government with some 45 per cent of the vote. So it seems totally irresponsible to assume that  Mr Daly  and his party are not in some real measure directed by a political incentive in constantly bringing this sort of legislation before the Parliament. 
As I said a moment ago, this legislation proposes to reduce the tolerance to 10 per cent. But it proposes to do more than that. It creates a circumstance in which that tolerance can be used in such a manner that rural Australia, country Australia, will suffer the most. The country electorates have, virtually without exception, the greatest numbers of electors. Indeed, if the Government promotes the view that the reason for that is that those electorates have a slower growth rate it is surely condemning any claim it makes about being concerned with decentralisation, with the vast cross-section of the Australian people. That is the only way in which I can read the situation. I believe that the Government's support for this redistribution can be read only as emphasising its total disregard for those vast areas that lie outside the metropolitan areas around the Australian seaboard. 
I wish now to turn briefly to one or two circumstances in my own State of New South Wales. I shall refer to two or three of the electorates concerned. In the first place, the redistribution proposals which are before us abolish the seat of Riverina in New South Wales, a seat which in 1974 was lost by the Labor Party's  Mr Grassby  to the National Country Party's  Mr Sullivan.  It is a seat, ironically enough, which incorporates virtually all the yardsticks except the sheer extent of the electorate itself. It is an electorate which fits so well all those other traditional yardsticks of an electorate. Community of interest, capacity for travel and communication, identity itself across the whole canvas of the electorate are perhaps as well represented, if not better represented in the electorate of Riverina in New South Wales, than in most if not all other electorates in Australia. 
Yet it is an electorate which under this redistribution it is proposed to abolish. The electorate of Gwydir in New South Wales is to cover no less than 100 000 square miles, which is practically one-third of the area of the State. 
-That is right, and it is well under quota; it is 15 per cent under quota. The electorate of Gwydir has no less than 40-odd local government bodies and will cover 100 000 square miles. It is impossible to assert that equality of representation, the value and character of representation, can be the same in that circumstance as it can in a city electorate covering an area of 3 or 4 square miles. It is quite a ridiculous situation, and I am quite sure that most members of the Government would, in their quite reasonable circumstances, admit that that is so. 
I now turn to the electorate in New South Wales just north of the Australian Capital Territory, the electorate of Hume. It is proposed that the electorate of Hume should be elongated. The proposal is to extend its area to some 16 000 square miles, which includes a vast variety of terrain and country. The most important point of all is that it has 65 625 electors or 3000 electors above the average for the State of New South Wales. It is a rural electorate which of its very nature is difficult to represent, and yet it is an electorate which has within its boundaries the greatest number of electors of any of the 45 federal electorates in the State of New South Wales. 
I shall now refer to one or two other matters of interest and I believe, in fairness, of some concern. In New South Wales there are 12 federal country electorates, and of those 12 electorates only two under the redistribution proposals will have less than the average number of electors and those 2 electorates will be only marginally below the average. I refer to the electorate of Farrer in the south-west of New South Wales, which will have 500 electors under the average, and the electorate of New England in the northeast of New South Wales, which will have only 400 electors under the average. Twelve country electorates in New South Wales exceed the State average number of electors by roughly 700. Nineteen of the 33 urban and semi-urban electorates in New South Wales are below the State average. These 33 electorates have an average number of electors which is 1000 below the average of the country electorates. 
I am emphasising these points because I believe that they are significant; they are absolutely indicative of the fact that the redistribution which is before us is not really concerned with justice to the total Australian scene and certainly not with justice to the total scene as we see it in the State of New South Wales. I believe that the redistribution that we are looking at has made a mockery of the principles of means of communication, identity of interest and so forth that should be of great significance in determining the electorates of a country. 
It is interesting to recall that if the number of country electorates in New South Wales had been increased by one instead of being diminished by one the electorates would have been within the 10 per cent tolerance. I mentioned that this is a matter of interest. I believe it is of pertinent interest to point out that if on the one hand there was one more rural electorate rather than one less in New South Wales the margin of tolerance would still be only 6.4 per cent, well within the 10 per cent limit. If, on the other hand, in order to retain a total of 45 seats one urban or semi-urban seat was lost the margin of tolerance would be 2.6 per cent. On both occasions the variation would be well within the tolerance of 10 per cent which is laid down in the laws under which these redistributions were made. The concern of my Party and the Opposition is for balance and decentralisation, and I know that on occasions the Government talks of the same things. We are concerned that we can see no reference at all to balance and decentralisation in the redistribution proposals that are before us today. This is the major concern not only of my Party but also of the hundreds of thousands of people who live right across the canvas of inland Australia. 
Section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act states among other things that the Distribution Commissioners should consider community of interests in the electorate, communications and travel within a division, physical features and the trend of population changes. I do not believe that these principles have been realistically approached in the redistribution Bills that are before us. If changes in population trends are such that the actions which are proposed in the redistributions are considered necessary it is, as I said before, a sad reflection on the capacity of the Government to develop a total and balanced scene. 
We see in this redistribution the weight of political representation being tilted still further towards the urban areas. We do not believe that this is in the proper interests of the total development of New South Wales and of Australia. It seems to me to be totally absurd that in a country as vast as Australia we should be aiding and abetting a circumstance which continues to make the disparity between the representation of metropolitan and rural Australia even greater. It is absurd that such a vast country with such an amazing potential should find itself continually being encouraged to remain the most urbanised country on earth. 
I conclude my remarks by drawing the attention of the Senate again to the basic circumstances that surround the redistribution proposals that are before us. In the first place the redistributions are totally unnecessary as they would be a prelude, by a matter of months, to the census which will require yet another redistribution. They are totally unnecessary in that the evidence of the elections that have been held in the last 3 years indicates that there is a remarkable justice in the results that come from the electoral set-up that exists in Australia today. It is for these reasons that I find great strength in opposing this series of Bills concerned with the redistribution of Australian electorates. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer the following question in view of the Prime Minister's deceitful claim in April-May last year that he and his Government had beaten inflation. Is it a fact that recent steep increases in the Government's indirect taxes on beer, cigarettes and petrol and enormous rises in postal and telephone charges will not be reflected fully in the consumer price index until the December quarter index is published next year? Is it also a fact that the Budget deficit will be far higher than the planned $2.8 billion, even if only for the reason that the cost of Medibank will be higher than estimated? Are the people of Australia entitled to conclude from these clear indicators that high inflation is to continue and may well grow higher? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government whether he recalls the statement made in the Senate on 12 May 1967 by the former Leader of the Government in the Senate, now  Mr Justice  Murphy. It states: 
If we consider it in the public interest that a measure be rejected, who gave us the right to refrain from doing so under some pretended notion that the Senate cannot reject a tax or money Bill? 
Does the Minister note the use of the word ' right' as distinct from the word 'power'? Does the Minister still support the view of his predecessor? 
I rise to support the amendment that has been put down in this place today by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers.  In the course of this debate, which is indeed a serious debate, much strength and weight has been put upon the word 'responsibility'. I think we should look at the word 'responsibility' in the equation that represents the Government and the Opposition, because on both sides of that equation there is a very large measure of responsibility. The Opposition in this Senate has the extreme responsibility to examine every part of legislation that comes before it. It is a responsibility on behalf of the total Australian electorate. It is a responsibility that it cannot and must not afford to neglect in any circumstance. Whilst it is said on numerous occasions by the Government that the Opposition is responsible for the circumstances that currently exist in the Australian scene, I want to suggest that the responsibility is equally- in fact, more heavily- laden on the Government. People in Australia do not normally talk of elections. They do not normally talk of changing governments over periods of 18 months. That is not the natural circumstance. If the Government had a specific view on the real meaning and value of responsibility, it surely would be asking itself: 'Why are people today constantly asking themselves whether they should not have an opportunity to change the Government?' The responsibility lies almost entirely in the fact that the Government has failed consistently for 3 years to establish an economic social situation in this country that leads to the general satisfaction of the people whom it must represent. That is the responsibility it has. 
There has been constant reference to the fact that only 1 8 months ago the Government went to the people as a result of the existence of a circumstance similar to that of today. We are reminded- it is true- that the Government was returned to office on that occasion, but it is not brought to the forefront of people's concern that when the Government was re-elected 1 8 months ago it was re-elected with a majority that was reduced in the House of Representatives from nine to five and it failed to gain control of the people's only brake in this Parliament, the Senate. So if the Government had been really responsible, at that stage and as a result of that election it surely would have taken stock of its policies and attitudes. It surely would have started to govern in a manner which would have defeated rather than encouraged inflation, unemployment, industrial unrest and a terrifying lack of development in this great land. Yet 18 months after the Government received that distinct warning in the area of responsibility from the Australian electorate, we find in this country inflation, which was then at 10 per cent or 1 1 per cent, running at 17 per cent. We find the highest unemployment since the days of the 1930-31 depression. 
Indeed the Government, having had the opportunity to continue, having been given what it asked for- namely, a fair go, a chance to do the things that it maintained it was capable of doing and determined to do on behalf of the total Australian people- has, 1 8 months later, as a result of its policies and as a result of its legislation, put the country in a considerably worse circumstance than it was in previously. The point I make is that the Government was absolutely and totally unwilling to accept the responsibility that was laid on it fairly and squarely by the electorate of Australia when it returned it to government with a reduced majority in the House of Representatives and without control of the Senate- in other words, without total control of the Parliament of Australia. I believe that that sort of responsibility has been relegated virtually to oblivion by the Government in the 1 8 months that are the prelude to this specific time. Indeed, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said on a number of occasions that democracy is a fragile plant. Of course, it is a fragile plant. 
-I am glad that the honourable senator mentions that Malcolm Fraser said that too. Malcolm Fraser also said- this is most significant- that people in government have nothing to fear if they are prepared to go to their masters. Indeed, if that is the circumstance then there is no challenge to democracy. In other words, in that circumstance the fragile plant of democracy will survive- but only in that circumstance. In the situation which confronts us today the people who govern this country are totally unwilling to put themselves before the people who elect them to be that Government. 
Over the last few weeks there have been some views- I must admit that these views are still relatively few- emanating mainly from academic cocoons and other ivory towers to the effect that the Senate Opposition in the Parliament of this country is acting in a manner which is anti-constitutional and which is not related to the conventions under which we operate. There are a number of things with which I wish to deal in this area. I believe that some of them have been pointed to and talked about previously. The fact that they have been talked about and the fact that they may well be repeated is of great significance because people have to understand the basic things that are at stake today. It has been somewhat mischievously suggested that the House of Lords is the equivalent of the Senate in this Parliament. Of course, that is not true. The House of Lords has no power over money Bills. The House of Lords is not, as is the Senate, an elected House. The Senate is elected by exactly the same number and character of people as elect the House of Representatives. The Senate therefore has a mandate of its own. It has a very severe, distinct resolve and a very distinct responsibility to the total electorate of Australia. So there is no real parallel between the House of Lords and its powers and the Australian Senate in this Parliament. 
It has been suggested that it is improper for the Senate to use its numbers in relation to matters such as this. That suggestion has been made by our Prime Minister. I suggest that it is not an improper use of numbers. The Prime Minister has said that the Constitution did not envisage the Senate to have this power. However, there are many views, both from within the Labor Party and from outside the political scene altogether, which suggest that it most certainly does have the powers that it claims- the powers that are rightly the powers of the people of Australia. I quote just one or two instances.  Sir John  Quick and  Sir Robert  Garran in interpreting the Constitution, of which they were draftsmen, put forward this view: 
The Senate has co-ordinate power with the House of Representatives to pass all Bills or to reject all Bills. Its right of veto, as we know, is as unqualified as its right of assent. 
That is a pretty clear indication of the power of the Senate. Further, on looking through the comments of various members of the Labor Party, we find that former  Senator Murphy  had this to say in the Senate on 12 May 1967: 
The Opposition opposes this Bill. 
The Bill was the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill. He continued: 
There is no tradition, as has been suggested, that the Senate will not use its constitutional powers, whenever it considers it necessary or desirable to do so, in the public interest. There are no limitations on the Senate in the use of its constitutional powers except the limits selfimposed by discretion and reason. There is no tradition in the Australian Labor Party that we will not oppose in the Senate any tax or money Bill, or what might be described as a financial measure. Our tradition is to fight, whenever and wherever we can, to carry out the principles and policies for which we stand. We are not circumscribed by any notions which arose elsewhere in connection with other institutions. It has been said that this is a money Bill. It is not a money Bill. If it were a tax or money Bill, we would still oppose it. 
The then  Senator Murphy  further said: 
We in the Senate are democratically elected by the people of the States. If we consider it to be in the public interest that a measure be rejected, who gave us the right to refrain from doing so under some pretended notion that the Senate cannot reject a tax or money Bill? 
Those are the words of the then  Senator Murphy,  one who is regarded and rightly so as a legal mind of considerable standing. We have  Senator Willesee  with us in the Senate today. At that time,  Senator Willesee  made this statement - 
I have no doubt that he is listening. He said: 
The implication is that because this is a measure relating to finance in that it is a Bill to increase charges, the Senate dare not reject it. But as recently as 1 965 the Senate rejected an income tax Bill and sent it back to another place. The same thing happened during the credit squeeze when we rejected an increase of 10 per cent in sales tax on motor cars. We did not hear anybody complaining in those days. The Senate has rejected measures time and time again. The position has been stated clearly today. So long as we are in Opposition we intend to act as an Opposition and so long as we can register our vote, irrespective of whether it is successful, our duty as members of Parliament and as members of the Opposition is to do exactly that. 
That is what  Senator Willesee  had to say. They are his reflections on the power and right of the Senate to reject a money Bill. As recently as 1970 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said certain things on the subject. I quote from the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 12 May 1970 in which the Prime Minister is reported to have said, amongst other things: 
Any government which is defeated by the Parliament on a major taxation Bill should resign. 
That is what the Prime Minister-said as recently as May of 1970.  Mr Odgers,  in his work on the Australian Senate, has some interesting things to say and I believe the people of Australia should be aware of them. He said: 
The Senate has co-ordinate power with the House of Representatives to pass all Bills or to reject all Bills. Its right of veto as we know it is as unqualified as its right of assent. The only restrictions on the exercise by the Senate of financial powers are the restraint which it traditionally exercises, and the electoral sanction. A Senate which used its power capriciously could suffer only one fate, punishment at the ballot box - 
So it becomes quite evident from a wide range of opinions from outside the Parliament and from opinions of senior members within the Australian Labor Party that the Senate has the power and on proper occasions the duty to take the action that it proposes to take at this point. In fact, this circumstance arose in the Houses of the Victorian Parliament in 1947 and 1952 when the Upper House, by blocking money Bills on both occasions, brought about elections. It is interesting to observe that on one occasion it was the Liberal Party that forced the circumstance and on the other occasion it was the Labor Party. It is more interesting to observe that on both occasions the action taken by the Upper House was endorsed by the people of the State. So the circumstances are proper and have occurred before. 
It surely must be the people who ultimately are given the opportunity to make the decision with reference to government. The government in this country, as in any democracy, has to be judged on its performance. I am suggesting that the Senate Opposition is taking the proper view and the responsible view in acknowledging that the circumstances, economic and social, that are becoming continually worse in this country are such that people must be given an opportunity to decide whether the Government that they have is the government that in fact they want. 
I think that a word may well be said regarding the circumstances and the significance of the role of the Senate in the 1970s.  Mr President,  I want to suggest that although this role is virtually unchanged technically, it has as a result of the last 3 years of socialist government in Australia become more crucial than ever in the history of this country. It has become more crucial because the 3 years that have elapsed in 2 periods- the period to May 1974 and the period from then to the present time- have indicated the vast and basic difference between the major political entities of this country. Consequently, because we are looking at a circumstance which has clearly revealed political philosophies which relate to the State as the master in the socialist image of the people and as the servant in the free enterprise democratic image, because we are looking at these 2 alternatives diametrically opposed and clearly defined in the last 3 years, I am suggesting to honourable senators and to the people of Australia that the role of the Senate at this time is more crucial than ever in its history. We must be aware of this as we take our place in reviewing the circumstances that are before us. 
I suggest that the responsibility of the Opposition in this matter which it promotes in the Senate today is indicated by the fact that it has spent literally hours and weeks, now running into months, of decision making and of consideration before taking this sort of action. It is not the sort of action that has been taken out of the clouds or grabbed from the trees. It is the sort of action that is the result of sincere and solid judgment, of investigation of the circumstances of the whole Australian community. I suggest that it is most unreal to promote the view that the instability, uncertainty and lack of confidence that have pervaded this country and which continue to pervade it are the result of a constant threat of elections. Rather, it is directly the opposite. The instability and insecurity that we see in this country, the lack of confidence that is all around, are the result of the circumstances of the Government. They are not the result of a constant threat of elections. The insecurity and the instability are like inflation itself, the direct result of government operations. lt is constantly suggested by this Government and by its Ministers, including those in the Senate, that the inflation which troubles us in this land is an imported circumstance and that it exists all round the world. Inflation in Australia is running at the second highest level in the developed countries of the world today. We have imported not one bit of it. We have established it and nurtured it. So the idea that the threat of elections is the cause of insecurity is totally false. The cause of the insecurity is to be found in the changing attitudes to policies and legislation and the reversals of policies that are constantly occurring in the history of this Parliament. 
Let us look for a moment at what is the cause of this instability. The instability and lack of confidence in this land are surely the reasons that make it justifiable to say that Australians as a total electorate should indicate whether they believe that the Government is governing in their best interests. What are the causes of the instability? There are many. In the first place I suggest that the instability is related to the failure of the Prime Minister himself to weld a strong and reliable team in government. What other government in a period of 3 years has seen no fewer than 3 Treasurers, one of whom was not even given the opportunity of bringing down a Budget? What other government in that sort of time has seen the sacking of 2 Acting Prime Ministers? What other government has seen the cutting down of the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, as  Mr Cope,  a distinguished parliamentarian, was cut down unceremoniously by his great Leader not so long ago? There has been a constant shift. There has been the departure of the former Leader of the Government in the Senate, the then  Senator Murphy,  to the High Court of Australia. There has been the departure of  Mr Barnard,  the original  Deputy  Prime Minister, who is now on some overseas assignment. There has been this continuing instability in the actual manning, the personnel, of the Government and that can only relate to the instability and insecurity that is to be found in the total socio-economic circumstance of the Australian scene. 
I want to suggest that we will find as we look at the past 3 years that there has to be a relationship between the problems that beset this land now and the attitude of the socialist Government when it came to power- an attitude that seemed to be driven by the desire to implement an ideology rather than an economic and social system. I believe that the rush to implement and to establish an ideological circumstance is in no way divorced from the problems, economic and social, that have continued to confound the Australian people. If the Government had not started in the way in which it did in the very first Budget in 1973 I believe that the circumstances that have followed would have been moderated enormously. In the 1973 Budget, as honourable senators will well recall, the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  made the remark in the preface to the Budget Papers that the conditions were favourable for the transfer of resources from the private to the public sector, and that policy was followed with great determination. As it was followed with great determination the circumstances of the socio-economic provisions in Australia became steadily worse. There was the beginning of the major problem and it was a problem that was related to the installation of an ideology rather than an economic system. 
I wish to look briefly at the other areas that have caused this insecurity- areas which are relevant to the problems that face Australians today and areas which indicate the rush and the speed of the Government to act regardless of the real circumstances in which it finds itself. Very shortly after gaining office there was a 25 per cent tariff cut across the board. Nobody would deny the need to adjust intelligently from time to time the tariff structure of this country. It involves itself with the whole distribution and development of Australian resources. But to come to power and suddenly to wipe 25 per cent off tariffs across the board is a totally irresponsible action. That was one of the Government's first actions. Then, of course, there is the question of the superphosphate bounty. It was totally abolished; then its application was put to the Industries Assistance Commission; the Industries Assistance Commission then brought down recommendations; and the recommendations, presumably, have been shelved. I do not know what has happened to those recommendations. At least we understood that the Industries Assistance Com.mission 's recommendations would be implemented, but they have been shelved. 
We were to witness the elimination of compensation and incentives in the whole range of primary industry, particularly in the mining industries of this country, not to mention significant areas of manufacture insofar as they relate to export. The loss of these incentives and compensations has contributed in no small way to the lack of production in this country and to the level of unemployment we find now. Foreign investment was attacked tremendously vigorously by this Government when it came to power; so much so that it implemented a 33.1/3 per cent deposit requirement with the Reserve Bank of Australia. That did what it may well have been intended to do- it totally dried up the flow of foreign investment into this country. Then within months- within eight or ten months- the Government became a little excited that it may have acted too savagely, too quickly, so it reduced the requirement to 25 per cent, then to 5 per cent and then totally rubbed it out. The result was that the situation virtually remained the same. There was not sufficient confidence in the future of this country, in the Government of this country, for people to invest in it in almost any circumstances. 
We have seen reversals in the tariff circumstance, we have seen the imposition of import quotas and we have seen revaluations and devaluations. We have seen all of those things upsetting policies. We have seen policies and legislation made today and changed tomorrow. Yet the Government says that it is the threat of an election that is causing instability in this country. It is the performance of the Government that is causing instability in this country and it is the performance of the Government of which the Senate Opposition must take heed today and on which it must act in a responsible manner within the constitutional powers of review that so rightly and properly rest with it. 
I could deal at some length with some of the problems facing the major primary industries in this country, but time will not permit me to do so. But let me say that the instability that has occurred from time to time in the Australian wool industry is in no way unrelated to the kite that was flown in May of this year that the base price of wool should be reduced to 200c per kilo. What sort of confidence did that bring about right around the world? There was a significant loss of confidence not only within the Australian wool producing industry itself but- 
The measure of guilt of honourable senators opposite is in direct relationship to the way in which they squeal. They know, of course, that this is a fact because in the few months that have passed since May- prior to the 200c per kilo incident- the wool industry has fallen from a point at which 98 per cent of its wool was being disposed of to the trade at the 275c per kilo price level to a point at which 60 per cent of it is being disposed of to the trade at a 250c per kilo level. 
-The Senate is debating the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill, which sets out to establish an overseas trading corporation. The Opposition is basically opposed to the Bill, certainly in its present form, for a number of reasons with which I propose to deal briefly. In the first place, this appears to be yet another attempt to move into the traditional areas, the legitimate areas of private enterprise in international trade as part of the economic involvement of this country. It seems to be an attempt to move into this area with little other objective than to involve the Government as a specific entity. In that entity it can be only a competitor because it is said by those who support this proposed legislation that it is necessary for there to be competition in this field. That is the story behind the entry of government into virtually every field. But the major objection to that, in the view of the Opposition, is that this sort of entry, this sort of competition, can only resolve itself into competition from a privileged position and it therefore virtually involves the taxpayers' funds in risk enterprises in which they should not be so involved. 
Consequently, it is the Opposition's view that such an overseas trading corporation, yet another Government entity in the field, can contribute nothing to efficiency or profitability, or indeed to technology or to the personnel involved in those areas of international trade. There seems to be no way in which such a government entity can be assumed to contribute in those fields. Rather can it be seen as an involvement which concerns itself with the attitude of government control being synonymous with government ownership or direct intervention from a privileged position, and to that the Opposition is totally opposed. Government control, government assistance, government involvement in international trade, as in so many fields, is a perfectly legitimate and necessary situation; but in this circumstance and in this form we do not believe that it has anything to contribute to the circumstances that exist in a free enterprise economy. Naturally, organisations such as this are found in the centrally planned economies because, as has been said so many times by members of this Government, they operate under totally different systems. While we operate in this country under a system that has been an evolutionary system in an Australia way, it cannot be seen as being necessary in any way to produce yet another government entity operating in competition with others but from a privileged position. 
The object of the Overseas Trading Corporation is stated as being to engage in overseas trade, subject to prescribed conditions. Of course, that of itself and on the surface is perhaps a reasonable objective. But I believe that 2 questions must be answered. We must ask ourselves: Is it necessary? What can it really contribute to the effectiveness of international trade in the Australian scene? If in any way it were conceded to be necessary- we do not believe that it is, certainly in the form in which it is envisaged in this Bill- then the Opposition believes that the conditions and the restrictions that are found within this legislation are certainly insufficient to provide a proper measure of safeguard to those areas of international trade which have built this country into the twelfth largest trading nation in the world. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Senator Wriedt),  in his second reading speech, in looking for reasons for establishing this entity referred to the fact that overseas trade is an evolutionary circumstance, that it is constantly changing. Indeed, in one part of his speech he said: 
The time is most opportune to re-appraise what now appear to be gaps in Australia 's overseas trading machinery. 
I put it to the Senate that those gaps are basically imaginary gaps. I put it to the Senate that the circumstances of international trade recognise that it is an evolutionary concern. What concern is not of that manner? There can be no point in establishing a government entity to fill in the gaps because, as they occur, the gaps are solved and filled in by the trading entities that exist and have grown in the process of making this Australian nation the twelfth largest trading nation in the world. There is no reason to assume that the evolutionary process that has occurred to this point suddenly is going to break down. On those grounds, I do not believe that there is any justification for the establishment of this particular government entity. 
Various items can be cited that change the area and priority of demand in international trade. One such item referred to by the Minister in his second reading speech was the price of oil, and of course that has changed significantly the area and priority of international trade and demand. That sort of circumstance has been a continuing one. Indeed, we see it in another field in our trading relations today. In Russia, because of climatic conditions, there appears to be a shortfall of some 40 million tons of wheat. Incidentally, that is equivalent to approximately 4 Australian harvests. In view of that situation, quite obviously the Soviet Union will be involved in massive purchases of grain, and this must affect the areas and priorities of her demand. The fact that this happens every year- indeed it is happening in periods of far less than a year; it is a constantly changing situation- does not mean that suddenly the international trading capacity of this nation has broken down and that the solution is to be found by involving the Australian Government as a trading entity. On those grounds I find it impossible to support the introduction of the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation in the form in which the Government proposes that it should be introduced. 
As I mentioned earlier, there seems to be little reason, if any, for transferring in any way the risk involved in this massive enterprise of international trade from those who are the traditional and successful operators to the Australian taxpayer, who incidentally would be funding the initial capital of this Corporation and would be funding the interest, because no interest is payable on the capital of the Corporation as it is envisaged. Consequently, the seeds are sown for this Corporation to become a privileged entity and not in any real sense a true and straight competitor in the field of international trade if, indeed, there was a need for that to occur. 
I think it is pertinent that when dealing with legislation such as this we should ask ourselves: What is the contribution of the Government in matters of trade as a direct operator in that field? I do not believe that the Government's contribution has been very praiseworthy. If one looks at the field of mineral trade in Australia one finds that we have locked away uranium in the last 3 years. We may have missed what may be some of the greatest markets for this ore. We have missed those markets because of the Government's policies. We have seen the searchers for uranium go to different areas. The markets do not go without; they get the uranium somewhere else. Perhaps in the not too distant future the price of that commodity will fall and then we may seek to export it. 
In the areas of both coal and iron ore which are 2 minerals enjoying a vast demand at the moment and enjoying extremely high prices, we have seen through the Government's intervention prices arrived at which are below the prices that the industry itself was able to negotiate. In addition, we now see in the coal industry levies of $2 and $6 per tonne imposed on what are called windfall profits. The tragedy of this situation is that in all probability it will mean at least a partial incapacity, on the part of the industry, to develop the facilities that it needs to meet the fairly obvious demands in the near not too distant future. 
The Government has, through its policies and attitudes, created a situation in the area of oil exploration and development that is causing this country a great deal of concern. It is the efforts of the 1960s in particular that have seen us producing 70 per cent of our requirements in oil. Because of the attitude of this Government in the last 3 years we have ceased to increase our capacity in this enormously important field. This situation is enormously important from many points of view, not the least from the point of view of inflation in this country. I believe that these are just 2 areas of direct Government involvement which have contributed nothing to the trading circumstances in this country. I cannot see that the establishment of a specific Government entity in the international trading field will contribute anything of value in this area. A lot has been made of the necessity for government to government trade in an era when around the world there are a number of centrally planned economies. Of course, this has been the situation for many years. It has also been the situation that Australia's trading capacity and our trading entities have been most successful in trading with those centrally planned economies over a wide range of goods. 
The Australian Wheat Board and the Australian Wool Corporation, for instance, are 2 examples of statutory corporations operating successfully in trade with countries such as China, Russia and many countries of the eastern European bloc. These activities have been aided by the private operators in virtually all of those countries. Once again, the contribution to international trade in Australia by the Government cannot be seen to have been productive. In fact, 1 suggest that it may be far better for the Government, in the international trading field, to concern itself with trying to get around some of the damaging situations that are confronting a large part of our trading activities. I have in mind, for instance, the attitude of the unions to the export of wheat to Chile. What was the Government's contribution to that trade? It made no contribution except a negative contribution. That is a trade that has taken about seven or eight years to develop and it has now been lost. It is a trade which may well take a considerable time to regain. 
I mentioned only yesterday and I mention again in passing the contribution of this Government to Australia's international trade in its suggestion in May that the base price of wool should be reduced. What a contribution that was. My point is that if the Government is really concerned with developing and aiding Australia's international trade it should be concerned to decry some of the damaging actions that have taken place and which have done so much to set back a trade situation that in many cases has taken years to establish. 
I believe there is a distinct vagueness in the concept of the clearing house type of organisation envisaged in this legislation. It is alleged that it will aggregate small lots for exporters and bulk purchases for small manufacturers. That sort of capacity exists already. Of course, as members of the trading entities in Australia avail themselves of that sort of situation now, there seems to be a measure of irony that this Government should attempt to involve itself in saving the trading capacity of small operators. Indeed, the small business and the small operatorwhether he be an exporter, importer or manufacturer for the Australian scene or a small Australian mining company- has suffered at every turn of the road in the last 3 years. To imagine that this legislation is being introduced with a view to improving the lot of these people and of these entities by a centralist government is too far fetched for most people to believe readily. Likewise in the centralist philosophy in which we live under this Government, it seems unreal to think, as is suggested in the legislation, that there will be constant consultation with State governments and business organisations. That certainly is an about face in the activities of the Government in respect of virtually any part of the Australian economic and social order. 
I return to the fact that the initial capital of this organisation is to be at the level of $ 1 m. That is a pretty unreal level if it is to be a very effective trading entity. But be that as it may, that is in the form of a grant of money on which no interest will be payable. Consequently, once again, there is a lack of responsibility and it is responsibility that ultimately breeds efficiency and profitability. I see many dangers in the establishment of an organisation such as the proposed Overseas 
Trading Corporation. In answer to the question I posed earlier, in summary it seems to me that an intrusion of Government into this import and export area is totally unnecessary. What is envisaged in this legislation is the intrusion of a straight Government entity as distinct from normal, proper and increasing Government involvement through assistance and encouragement in the areas of international trade. I believe we must safeguard those elements in our trading community which have developed this country to what it is. In this legislation there appears to be no proper and complete safeguard in that area. The private sector has been traditionally capable of doing this job. The contribution of a privileged competitor can create only a large measure of dismay and uncertainty which will, in the long term, react unfavourably on the Australian trading scene. It is not only unnecessary but also its aims and objectives appear to be suspect when looked at against the background of the centralist philosophy of the present Australian Government. 
The limiting factors to Australian trade, both import and export, are surely the availability of goods, services, finance and transport. They are not related to technological capacity and expertise. We, the private and corporate traders in this country, have an adequate degree of expertise and an adequate capacity to know and to use the technology in these various fields. Consequently, in the establishment of this entity there can be no contribution to the availability of goods and services which are, after all, the basic elements of international trade and, indeed, of internal trade, When I say that the safeguards in the Bill appear to be inadequate, I shall suggest one or two areas in which this can be clearly seen and represented. The Overseas Trading Corporation can involve itself virtually in any trading circumstance by appointing or by being appealed to by another entity in another country. It is not, as is suggested, just purely an addition or a help to the Australian trading scene but rather it is a competitor in every area of that trade. 
The Australian Chamber of Commerce and many other industry groups are totally opposed to the introduction of this Corporation as envisaged in this legislation. Clause 1 1 of the Bill does not deny the Corporation the right to import goods as agent of another person. This is a privileged circumstance. The Corporation could establish retail outlets in overseas markets, exporting directly to its subsidiary and consequently damaging existing trade and, more particularly, the promoters and builders of that trade. By clause 12 it is intended to deny the Corporation the right to produce or manufacture goods, but the exceptions in sub-clause (2) are so wide that the clause becomes virtually ineffectual. Clause 13 which relates to national interest considerations again opens the way for political motivation in international trade. The political motivation is to be based and backed by taxpayers' money if, on certain occasions, it is not commercially successful. 
I make it clear that in opposing this Bill and in opposing the establishment of this Corporation we are certainly not opposing the idea and the necessity of Government involvement in the form of real and proper assistance in the area of international trade. The area which has already been established through the Australian Trade Commissioner Service must be increased and improved as time goes by for this can be of value to importers and exporters alike. The marketing assistance section of the Trade Promotion Divison of the Department of Overseas Trade should involve both import and export trade. In this circumstance we are looking at a position where the Government, in relation to international trade, remains the important servant of the people and not the master as it may well become with the introduction of this type of entity which is the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation as envisaged in this Bill. Trade missions, both State and Federal, are of extreme importance in promoting trade as also, of course, are incentives in the manufacturing and export fields. These are the proper and necessary areas in which Government assistance must remain. This assistance has been significantly and, hopefully, improved. In closing, I mention the views of the  President  of the International Trade Division of the Chamber of Manufacturers. In an annual report he makes a number of statements of which I believe the Senate well could be aware. He stated: 
State trading corporations are necessary for countries with so-called centrally planned economies, but we feel that free enterprise economies of the world have little use for them. 
Further on- I believe this is of some real significancehe stated: 
There are anomalies in the Bill which in my opinion can only be to the disadvantage of manufacturers and traders. 
It is inferred that the proposed corporation may engage in barter deals or switch trading. 
If this is intended the implications for our norma) international trading procedures will be formidable. 
Another aspect of this which is of particular importance to manufacturers is the application of the tariff schedule. 
How is the tariff to be applied in circumstances where the value for duty of an import is to be measured in terms of barter or in which the current domestic value of the commodity may be established purely by political regulation? 
Finally, he states: 
There can be little to be gained by endeavouring to build safeguards into legislation which is socialistic in concept and under which the Minister may do almost anything on the pretext of the national interest. 
For these reasons, because the Corporation appears to be totally unnecessary and because it appears to have built around it insufficient safeguards for a capable trading organisation in this country, we in the Opposition oppose the legislation. 
-Is the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation aware that officers of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation have approached insurance companies in South Australia seeking information about methods used by companies to administer workers compensation insurance? Did the Minister initiate or ratify the survey? Is he aware that much of the information sought by the Department is regarded as confidential by the insurance companies? For what purposes would the information be used by the Department and by the Government? 
-I ask the Minister representing i;he Minister for Defence: When did the Government receive the Industries Assistance Commission's report on its inquiry into the Australian aircraft industry, and when will the report be tabled in Parliament? Are the report and the Government's decisions on the report's recommendations crucial to the future of thousands of workers in this industry? 

 - Mr Deputy President, I rise to support the attitude of the Opposition to the Appropriation Bills. In listening to  Senator Wheeldon  's quite humorous contribution, one or two things appeared to me to be somewhat strange. In view of his certainty of the performance of his Government and also in view of his analysis of the polls, which have so thrilled him, it seems strange that  Senator Wheeldon  prefers to sit in his seat in this Senate and not go out and obtain the benefit of the extraordinary advantage that he asserts he has today in the Australian electorate. I am sure we all thought at one stage that he may well have thrown the documents aside and produced pure poetry. He was tremendously close to doing that. 

 Senator Wheeldon found the whole of the Khemlani papers, or the parts that he read, extraordinarily amusing. I merely make the point that this man whom  Senator Wheeldon  found so amusing, this man whose production brought almost poetry from his lips, is the man that the honourable senator's own Government had provided as its man to seek loans of $4,000m. I think it is a quite remarkable turn of events that in the Senate we should find  Senator Wheeldon  being intensely amused at the performance of that man and attempting to ridicule him, being intensely amused by the man who is his own operator. If that is the case, surely the Minister is throwing some sort of shadow over the Government itself for appointing and dealing with these sorts of shady characters in shady places all around the world.  Senator Wheeldon  asserted that  Mr Khemlani  had claimed that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was standing by while these negotiations were going on; that even the GovernorGeneral was standing by. I was very impressed with that. But I did notice that the Loan Council was not standing by, and it seems to me somewhat amazing, from a government that is so concerned with the constitutional issues of the day, that the Loan Council, which the Government obviously was circumventing on the strange assumption that 20 years was a temporary period, was not standing by in this crucial moment. 
I believe that the action the Opposition has taken in the debate on the Appropriation Bills is the responsible exercise of its powers in the Australian Parliament. Today as never before there is a very crucial role for the Senate to play. Today, after 3 years of socialist government in this country, the immensity of the gulf that divides the philosophies of the two major political entities is apparent to the entire Australian population. In that circumstance the role of the Senate as the people's brake, as the people's area of restraint on the House of legislature, is far more crucial than it has ever been in the history of this country. I believe that it is a responsible exercise of the Senate's proper power and of the people's brake that the Opposition should adopt the attitude and take the action that it has. Let me say that in this circumstance responsibility applies not only to the Opposition. It applies to the Opposition quite clearly in this area because the Opposition is prepared and must be prepared to face the judgment of the people when it acts as a restraining force on their behalf. If it seeks to bring a government to the people, then obviously the Opposition has to accept the responsibility involved. But there is also a responsibility on the Government in this issue, in this crisis. It has been called a crisis by many people- differing crises surely- but in this crisis the responsibility on the Government must be immense. 
It was  Senator Georges  who said that the simple solution to the crisis- the word comes up constantly- is for the Opposition to pass Supply. In a sense that would be a solution, but it would be a very short-term solution. It would not be a solution that would satisfy the Australian people because the crisis surely must be relevant to the Government's performance. That is how the crisis arose. The crisis has not just become what it has been intimated to be- a constitutional or conventional crisis. It is a crisis that is totally relevant, I believe, to the performance of the Government. There would be no question of the Senate Opposition taking this sort of action if indeed the Government had been performing in a way which ensured that the economy of this country improved constantly, or was holding its own in terms of world economics. The crisis that the Opposition seeks to solve by asking the masters of the Government, the people, to give judgment is directly relevant to the performance of the Government itself. I believe that we should not be led astray, we should not be led off the track, by assuming that the solution lies purely in the area of  Mr Khemlani  or in the area of a constitutional or conventional issue. The crisis is relevant to the performance or lack of performance of the Government itself. 
The Senate, through the Opposition, exercises its proper power of restraint, its proper power of review, on behalf of all the people because it, as well as the House of Representatives, is a people 's House. It has a different structure, it has different objectives, but nevertheless it has a proper and significant part to play in the parliamentary structure of this country as a people's brake, as a people's restraining force. It is because the Prime Minister finds that the Senate seeks, through the constitutional powers that it possesses, to refer the performance of this Government to its masters, the people, that his reaction now is quite different to his reaction only 18 months ago, quite different to the action that he advocated in this Parliament for many years. The Prime Minister now suggests that he will set out to smash the powers of the Senate. That is his answer to the parliamentary crisis that confronts Australians. He seeks to smash the powers of the Senate, to make it a rubber stamp, a useless chamber in this parliamentary system. The mass of people in Australia recognise in the Senate the only source of braking power that they have on any government, whether it is extreme right or extreme left. It is the people's source of braking power; it is their source of restraint. I do not believe that the people are going to accept as a solution to the problems that confront us today the suggestion of the Prime Minister that he will now set out to smash the powers of the Senate. 
At this point, of course, deferral is the proper course, for it only remains for the Prime Minister to take the action that he took 1 8 months ago, and has recommended on many occasions as the proper action, for the Supply Bills which have been laid aside to be passed forthwith. So deferral is the correct attitude at this point, and it only remains for the Prime Minister to continue the course of action that he promoted actively in 1974, and indeed promoted through debate in the House on various occasions, when he said that if a government is defeated in the Parliament on a major taxation Bill it should resign. That is exactly what the Prime Minister did in 1974. We heard this morning the exuberance of  Senator Wheeldon  at the results of the opinion polls which he has been reading. Thus, it is difficult to follow the reasoning of the Prime Minister, when suddenly he decides that he will not take that former line of action, but rather that he will take another line of action, which is that he must smash the power of the institution that has made it possible that he may well have to face his masters. It has been properly said that whilst a government is prepared to face the people- its masters- then and then only is democracy safe; then and then only is democracy not at stake. These are the circumstances that apply today. 
Let me say very briefly that I believe there is no doubt as to the Senate's power to take the course of action which it proposes to take in these circumstances. People with political views and backgrounds as far apart and as totally divorced as  Sir Robert  Menzies,  Mr Justice  Murphy and, indeed,  Mr Whitlam  have indicated that they believe that the powers of assent and veto of the Senate are the same as those powers in the House of Representatives. So there we have authorities who, although basically of differing political philosophies, are agreed that the power that is exhibited by the Opposition in the Senate today is a proper, meaningful and necessary power. 
No, except its recognition of the course of action that would be considered to be the normal and proper course of action in this circumstance of a deadlocked Parliament. If the Government were responsible it would accept the circumstance of deadlock and seek properly to overcome it. The deadlock could be overcome properly by the Government presenting itself to the people. 
Besides the views of  Mr Justice  Murphy,  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Mr Whitlam,  we have the view of Quick and Garran, the interpreters of the Constitution, the view of  Mr Odgers  in his book  Australian Senate Practice,  and the views of a number of professors of law, of prominent Queen's counsel and of many other people interested in the constitutional circumstances of this country. In all these views there is a strong consensus that the sort of power that is being used by the Senate today is a proper and responsible power to use on behalf of the Australian people. In what other way could there be a check on a government- no matter what the government called itself- that may be careering in any of half a dozen different directions? I believe it is important that I should remind the Senate that there is a great measure of responsibility in the Opposition talcing this course. The burden of its decision, as I intimated earlier, must ultimately lie with its capacity to be proven by the people to have done the fit and proper thing. Ultimately it is for the people to decide whether the circumstances which have promoted this action and this crisis are circumstances which were properly recognised and assessed by the Opposition on behalf of the people for whom it operates as a braking force. 
In reference to that matter, may I say that this action has occurred in Australia in the Federal scene only once- in 1974. It has occurred in State circumstances on 2 occasions. They were in 1947 and 1952 when the Upper House in Victoria, through the rejection of a money Bill, forced the Parliament of that State to the people. Incidentally, the money Bill was rejected on one occasion by the Liberal Party in opposition in the Upper House and on the other occasion by the Labor Party in opposition in the Upper House. On both occasions it is significant to note that the action and the views that were taken by the Upper House were confirmed by the people at the elections. I know that Government supporters will say, perhaps with some measure of reason, that this was not the case in 1974 when once again the Opposition in the Federal Parliament forced the Government to the people. Indeed, I would be the first to admit, and why would I not admit, that the Government was returned to power. 
But in fairness, let us face the circumstances and measure those circumstances. I suggest that the Government was returned to power with a reduced majority from nine to five, which has now been reduced further to three, in the House of Representatives and was unable to gain control of the people's house of review- the Senate, the people's brake on legislature. The Government was unable in the circumstances to gain control of that House. Consequently, it was confronted as a result of the 1 974 election with the possibility- indeed, the ultimate probabilityof a deadlocked Parliament. Surely that sort of re-election should have been accepted by a responsible government as a real measure of reflection on its performance and as an indication that the Government had better take considerable heed of its policies and attitudes and sharpen up its performance. If this was not a measure of stern warning then I fail to interpret the result of an election which saw a government returned with a lesser majority in one House, and being unable to control the house of review. So I believe that even the 1974 circumstance should have held for the Government a real measure of warning and should be regarded by Australians as the proper exercise of a responsible Opposition in the house of review. 
I said earlier that the crisis that confronts us is a crisis that is relevant to the performance of a government. We can forget in some measure about constitutional issues which are virtually settled and agreed to by all sides. We can forget, if need be, about the evidence that was tabled in this place only yesterday, although it does seem extraordinary to witness, as we did yesterday, the total objection of the Government to the tabling of those documents which  Senator Wheeldon  saw fit only to ridicule this morning. If, indeed, those documents were only a source of humour, why on earth did the Government attempt to continue to block their presentation in this place? 
I turn to perhaps some matters that have created this crisis. I refer to matters that are relevant to the performance of the Government, because that is what it is all about. That is why the crisis has arisen. That is why a responsible Opposition has seen fit to take this quite desperate action on behalf of the people it represents. We, too, in this chamber are a people's House. I remarked only the other day about an article in one of the leading newspapers in which the Prime Minister had referred to trumpery charges and phoney scandals referable to the Khemlani affair. If they were trumpery and phoney they were referable to the Government's man,  Mr Khemlani.  They were trumpery and phoney enough for  Mr Whitlam  to cut down yet another of his senior Ministers. 
How can the Australian people have confidence in a government which has shown the sort of internal instability of personnel that has been the history of this Government, including 3  Deputy  Prime Ministers in 3 years and the sacking of 2 Acting Prime Ministers? I will not go through the whole story, but I repeat, 3 Treasurers in 3 years. With the performance of the present Treasurer in revealing the Budget details to a man of considerable commercial enterprise,  Mr Hawke,  five or six hours before it was revealed to the Parliament, it must surely be a possibility, if the bottom of the bucket has not already been scraped, that the Treasurer could well be in some measure of danger. The Prime Minister may well be looking now for a fourth man to take that portfolio. 
I move on to the area of the Senate in its role as a defender of the people from the possibility of a dictatorial house of legislature. I believe it is important to realise that Australians are concerned as a result of 3 years of socialist government. Australians are concerned at the revelation of the immense ideological gap that lies between the major entities. They are aware after 3 years, as they have never been before, that major issues are at stake- basic philosophic issues- including the issue of whether the state is to be their master or their servant. They are aware of this. They are aware of the threat of centralism. They are aware of the gradual destruction of the sovereign powers of the States. They are aware of the immense problems that are being placed on local government, of the priorities and attitudes of the people on the spot. 
These matters have become totally and clearly evident in the last 3 years and they are the concern of Australian people today. They are relevant to the performance of this government, and they are relevant to the attitude of this Opposition in seeking to use its proper power to enable the people to decide whether this is the direction in which they want this great Australian evolutionary society to proceed. Since the inception of this Government there has been a constant rush towards establishing an ideological circumstance totally regardless of the socioeconomic problems that are contained in that sort of policy. I believe that Australians are aware of this today as they have never been before. 
Before I close I should like to refer to one or two areas of rural Australia in which there is a very real measure of concern as to the performance of this Government. In the year 1974-75 the cost of input into the rural area of this country increased by 33 per cent. In that same year the prices of the major products fell by more than 15 per cent. In the area of beef the figure was 74 per cent, and in the area of wool it was 34 per cent. It was only the buoyancy of the wheat market around the world that enabled Australia" to remain only 14 per cent or 15 per cent down in the price of its products. 
It is in the area of small business, commercial enterprises and small farms, that we have seen the greatest measure of destruction and concern as a result of the policies of the socialists over the last 3 years. It is a section of the community related to decentralisation. It is a section of the community which employs no fewer than 42 per cent of the total Australian work force. What has been the contribution of the wool industry? It is struggling once again out of a trough. Wool reached a peak in 1973, fell rather significantly in price, a drop of 34 per cent in the year 1 974-75, and struggled magnificently to a point in May of this year where the Australian Wool Corporation was buying only 2 per cent of the clip. The base price had moved forward from 250c to 275c a kilo. It had reached that point when the Government, for some extraordinary reason, flew a kite that it would be necessary to reduce the base price to 200c. Fortunately the enormous concern all around the world as well as in the producing areas of this country was such that the Government did not follow that course. 
However, the mere suggestion of it was sufficient to bring that great industry- it is probably more basic to balance in the Australian rural scene than any other industry- back to a position where it was selling only 50 to 60 per cent to the trade. The Corporation was buying the rest. It brought the base price from 275c back to the absolute minimum of 200c. Fortunately it is now moving slowly forward again. The Australian rural community in towns, on farms and in provincial cities alike can ill afford the sort of circumstances that follow from such unpredictable and irresponsible action as occurred at that stage. We have sought in this chamber the assurance of this Government that in the face of possible exchange rate changes it would immediately move the base price of wool in the direction indicated by the change in the rate in the value of the currency, in line with the performance of the Government of South Africa and the performance of the Government of New Zealand. We have not succeeded in getting any sort of categorical assurance on that relatively simple and basic issue. 
In the area of the beef industry this Government sought an Industries Assistance Commission investigation and recommendation on that industry which was in dire straits. The Government said: 'No, we do not want it in 30 days, we will be quite happy if you take 90 days'. It is interesting to note that the result of that investigation was a series of recommendations which are virtually identical to the promotions which had been the promotions of the Opposition with reference to the beef industry in Australia for many months. Yet the industry has been denied a quick result, and it is still denied any sort of real action. In the wheat industry there has been an enormous area of rising prices due to the world market situation, and this has led that industry to bolster the sagging rural circumstance. Even in that industry today, with the costs that are accruing in the area of superphosphate, labor, machinery, repairs, freight and chemicals- in all these things- we are looking at increases varying from 50 per cent to 100 per cent. In the long term the effect on productivity in this country will be crucial. 
The crisis that we face in this country today is directly referable to the performance of this Government. The reasons revolve around deceit, deception of the Parliament and deceitful operations. Government supporters can try to laugh off  Mr Khemlani  if they like, but he is just one instance of deceit and deception. These sorts of things, plus the problems of inflation and unemploymen t, plus the problems of increasing industrial unrest and the internal and external instability through which this country is becoming a piece of flotsam and jetsam, joined in some sort of poetic way to some imaginary third world- these are the circumstances that have caused a responsible Opposition to take responsible action on behalf of the Australian people. 
-I ask the Minister for Police and Customs: Did the Minister in answer to a question asked by  Senator Jessop  on Thursday last say that statements reported to have been made that day by  Mr Karidis  made it possible to pinpoint who was in breach of his oath-  Mr Karidis  or  Mr Khemlani?  Has the Minister accepted an unsworn, oral statement rather than a written declaration? Does this indicate the Minister's prejudice against  Mr Khemlani,  in whom the Government recently placed its trust to raise a massive loan? 
I rise to support the motion relating to the Governor-General's Speech so ably moved by  Senator Knight  and supported by  Senator Kilgariff.  Before I make a few general references may I, even in his absence, congratulate from the floor of the Senate chamber  Senator Laucke  on his election as  President  of the Senate. I believe that not only his personality and his character but also his long experience in this Parliament and in the Parliament of his home State of South Australia will serve him well to serve us well and to serve the Senate well. I should also like to congratulate my friend and colleague,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  on his election a second time to be  Deputy President  and  Chairman  of Committees. I congratulate those new senators who have delivered their maiden speeches and I understand fully the sense of relief that they feel. I wish well those honourable senators who have yet to speak in the Senate. 
I feel some measure of despondency at the happenings in the first week of the Thirtieth Parliament in Canberra. It is a despondency which relates mainly to the attitude of the Opposition in coming to this place and then largely, in the first place, seeking not to take part in the traditional ceremonies of the opening of the Parliament. From that point on and in this debate in particular it seems that Opposition members, almost to a man, have consistently concerned themselves with what they believed were the unfortunate occurrences of October, November and December of 1975.I believe that the 60-odd empty seats in this chamber last Tuesday when this Parliament was opened in the traditional manner really provided mute evidence not of protest but really of insult to the institution of this Parliament, to the representatives of the people of Australia, to the Governor-General himself and, I guess, through him to the Monarch. I believe that those empty seats provided mute evidence not of protest but of insult to the very institution that the Australian democracy needs so desperately to maintain and develop. 
That is the sort of interjection and attitude that I find and I am sure most Australians find to be quite deplorable in the circumstances of this Parliament. I believe that mute protest, that insult, was proved later in the day to be in some measure humorous and in some measure ironical. When we moved to the Senate gardens to take some cool drinks and general refreshments a measure of the protest and insult had suddenly dissipated, because out there where the drinks were on and the sandwiches were around we found the former Prime Minister, most of his family and indeed many of his colleagues. I just remark as a matter of interest in passing the sort of relative importance that some of these people at least place on the institution of Parliament and on afternoon tea parties. 
There has been continual talk in the Senate on the part of the Opposition concerning the problems surrounding the events of those days prior to 1 1 November and leading up to the election on 13 December, referring presumably to the improper use of power by the Senate itself in establishing a circumstance in which this Parliament was deadlocked. I want to suggest once and for all that if the Australian Senate does not have, as the people's brake on the House of legislature, the ultimate power, the power, through control over money Bills as over other legislation, to force this Parliament to the people, to force, one would assume on matters of responsibility, a guilty government to face its masters, indeed the Senate has no real province in the parliamentary system of Australia. It has to have that ultimate power. It is a power that carries with it an extreme measure of responsibility. It is a power that was accepted and acted upon by the former Leader of the Government, now the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  as recently as the April-May period of 1974.  Mr Whitlam  saw fit at that time to take the circumstances of a deadlocked Parliament to the people, as was the traditional and constitutional necessity. In 1970, as Leader of the Opposition, he sought vehemently to oppose money Bills and to destroy the Government of that day. Members of his Party- Opposition members as they were in those days and as they had been for 20 years prior to 1970- opposed vehemently money Bills on 168 occasions. So, it is an extraordinary circumstance that suddenly at the beginning of 1976 and at the end of 1975 we find a complete reversal in the Labor Party's attitude to the proper power of the Senate. 
I make the point that if the Senate is to be the useful, proper and responsible brake on behalf of the people of Australia on the House of legislature the Senate must have that ultimate power and in having it has an extreme measure of responsibility. It is quite ridiculous to assume that any political Party in this chamber could take or would take frivolous action that would send Australians to the ballot box. No frivolous or irresponsible action would be accepted by Australians in that sort of circumstance. Consequently the chances of the Senate's misusing its proper power are virtually nil because of the extreme consequences that would follow in the Australian electorate. I believe great damage was done to the institution of the GovernorGeneral by the attitude of the Opposition in this circumstance and by the failure of the Opposition to accept the decision of the GovernorGeneral as the ultimate authority in the case of a deadlocked Parliament. This has been ruled upon by the Australian people clearly and absolutely. 
I find it most extraordinary that we should be concerning ourselves today and over this last week with Opposition efforts in this chamber to assert that the action of the Senate was a threat to democracy and the action of the GovernorGeneral, as the ultimate force in the constitutional set-up of this country, was in some measure a threat to democracy. Surely if any democracy is to be retained in this country there must be the circumstance when a government can be forced to ask the people whether it should continue on the lines that it proposes or whether it should be displaced. The fact that such an election was forced is surely the very essence of democracy. Yet we are still being belaboured in this chamber by suggestions that on 1 1 November democracy was dealt a terrible blow by the then Opposition through the Senate and through the ultimate decision of the GovernorGeneral. I am reminded that this sort of circumstance cannot be allowed to continue, because the people of Australia have considered and they have given a clear and definite judgment. If the Senate had been irresponsible and if the Constitution had proved insufficient to the challenge the results that followed 13 December would have been totally and absolutely different. I recall Patrick White at that time saying of the events of 1 1 November that although there was no tanks, no troops around and no guns he felt that there was something sinister for democracy. What could there be sinister for democracy in a circumstance in the operation of a constitution, which saw the Australian people given the opportunity to go thoughtfully, responsibly and quietly to cast their vote in secret ballot. There is no threat or challenge to democracy in that. There is nothing sinister in that. While that remains the province of the Australian people I believe that democracy in this country is secure. 
I find it disappointing also that in the week so far passed in this Thirtieth Parliament the Opposition seemed determined still to remain tied to policies which it promoted in the latter part of 1972, policies to which in the latter part of 1975 it had nothing to add. Surely it has become apparent that the Opposition in this chamber and the Government in this Parliament should be looking at the policies which people have voted upon, because those policies are policies which had developed in 3 years the most massive measure of unemployment and inflation and the consequent loss of confidence that this country has ever known. It is high time that we in this 
Parliament set about changing that circumstance. Lack of confidence in the government ultimately will destroy a country. It is absolutely necessary to regain confidence if this great country is to get on its feet again and to overcome the legacy of inflation and unemployment. 
I would be less than responsible if I were to suggest that none of the objectives of Labor Party legislation in the last 3 years were of any value. Of course, that is not true. But the objectives of the Australian Labor Party were pursued with a measure of recklessness that no country can support. They were pursued with such recklessness that this country developed a domestic deficit of $4.7 billion in the current year in spite of the fact that there had been a printing of treasury notes to the extent of $1.7 billion to keep the deficit at that figure and in spite of the fact that there was a huge escalation in receipts from taxation consequent upon inflation, unaccompanied by any sort of indexation or any change in the rates of taxation. The revenue of this country increased by 46 per cent in the 1974-75 financial year. 
We surely must be aware that 3 years of socialist government in Australia has brought disaster. The socialist Government decided to pursue, willy nilly, ideological attitudes and relationships that were foreign to Australia. It decided to pursue those ideologies and relationships totally regardless of the economic and social consequences. Those consequences belabour us today and will continue to belabour us for a considerable time. Indeed, it must have been apparent to all Australians where the socialist Government was aiming when, more than 2 years ago,  Dr Cairns,  one of the most honest exponents of that Government, said that it had gone as far as it could go within the system. That ultimately, I suggest, was the warning of which all Australians took heed.  Dr Cairns  said that the socialist Government had gone as far as it could go within the system. Australians as a whole- unionists and Australians of all ages- when we get down to tin tacks were not interested in changing the Australian way of life and the Australian democratic system. When it was realised that that was under challenge the Australian people made a very clear decision. 
I refer briefly to a couple of short paragraphs which appear towards the end of the GovernorGeneral's Speech. I believe that they are of such moment that they could perhaps have been better placed at the beginning of the Speech. The Governor-General said: 
The purpose my Government has set itself is not merely to give Australia prosperity, predictability and stability- important though those things obviously are- it is also to develop in a rational and sensible fashion a new and exciting role for government- one which places more reliance on the commonsense and reason of the Australian people. 
The Governor-General also said: 
The Government is not concerned with power for itself. It is the servant of the Australian people. Its purpose is to work with the people to create an Australian democracy which will be an example to the world of what a free people can achieve. 
I believe that the message contained in those 2 short paragraphs is the prelude to the whole matter which is divulged in the Speech itself. We, as a Government, are concerned to introduce legislation that will bring about those circumstancescircumstances we have lost in 3 years of socialist regime. The Governor-General referred to the role of government. I want to speak briefly about that. Surely the role of government must be to establish in Australia a climate in which the basic facets of Australian free enterprise democracy can survive, evolve and grow. This must be the purpose of our Government. This, I believe, is the clear message contained in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. 
What is this free enterprise democracy? It is very Australian in its character. It has developed this country and has produced the Australian character, both individually and nationally. I suggest that there are many basic facets of free enterprise democracy. Perhaps I can look at three or four of these facets in passing. The role of government is to establish a circumstance in which these facets can grow. The role of government is not to own and direct but to prevent exploitation, whether it be of man or of resources. These facets relate to the dignity and security of the family unit which is basic to our Australian society. They relate also to equality of opportunity. We must always continue to direct our energies towards establishing equality of opportunity. Having done that, we cannot assume- we would be totally wrong to assume- that equality is a total part of the human race. Human beings are not equal and choose not to be equal. Consequently, we must seek to provide a measure of freedom of choice. Equality of opportunity having been established, individuals will then be able to choose any of a thousand ways to run; individuals will then be able to pursue their own specific desires. They will have a measure of freedom of choice. Basic to this institution which we promote and which I believe the GovernorGeneral's Speech promotes is a recognition of the profit motive within the law which is developed and imposed by the majority of Australians. To this point in the history of man nothing seems to have been able to satsify human nature as much as the profit motive. No form of government will be successful in the long term unless human nature is satisfied. 
I mention one other facet of Australian democracy. I suggest that it is relevant to our assessment of freedom. I suggest that there is no freedom without a real measure of discipline. The value of our philosophy is that we must impose a discipline which is the discipline of the majority and not of some executive or of a minority. Freedom is meaningless if it is not related to discipline. Let us make sure- the GovernorGeneral's Speech indicates the measures in which that assurance can be found- that that sort of discipline is the discipline which is required and accepted by the great majority of Australians. I hope, indeed believe, that I have indicated that the Governor-General's Speech concerns itself with the very basic concept of the role of government, which became so apparent in the first 3 years of socialist government in Australia for more than a generation and which is related to the position of the state in our society. I believe we can never afford to have the state as the master of the people. As the Speech suggests, it must remain the servant of the people and only then will democracy survive. I believe it was a significant reflection of the Australian character that in the election of December 1975 the people were ultimately confronted with a choice that at long last had become clear to them and was relative to the position of the state in our society. 
The Governor-General's Speech refers to a number of areas in which we propose to take important and quick action. There is the suggestion that inflation and unemployment are related to excessive government intervention. In the 3 years of socialist government to which I have referred the level of resources devoted to the public sector ranged from 19 per cent in the first year to 34 per cent and 23 per cent in the third year. In that sort of circumstance individuals become more and more reliant on the government and on government enterprise and we have found more and more that an increasing amount of money has been seeking a diminishing number of goods and services-the classic climate for inflation. In that situation a democracy such as we propose and such as we have developed cannot survive. 
Another subject in the Speech which I believe to be of extreme importance is the establishment of a centralised bureaucracy. Here again we have seen an enormous growth. In such a circumstance the individual becomes more and more reliant on the master state. We cannot afford it financially and it does not fit into democracy. When the state is absolutely supreme it becomes a small executive force probably backed by armed might and secret police. That is the ultimate circumstance, in which the state can be the total owner and controller of the country's resources. 
Welfare assistance is referred to in the Speech and is of extreme importance to any government and to any political party. We would be the first to admit the need for a state based on social service, but we have to be sure and certain that the great mass of taxpayers, whoever they are and wherever they may be, are not supporting the indolent. That is an examination and an exercise which must be of supreme importance to the current Government. The increased tax burden is referred to in the Governor-General's Speech. The greater the involvement of the public sector, the greater will be the burden of taxation on the Australian people; and that has to be assessed, regulated and reduced. We must not permit vast increases in what one terms unlegislated taxation; that has happened in the last 3 years. People have been receiving increases in salaries and wages only to find that because of inflationthere has been no indexation and no change of rates- they have been almost robbed on practically every occasion. We have to see that that does not occur so that when people receive increased salaries and wages they are real salaries and wages and not imaginary ones. 
That is quite true. In passing from the area of taxation, since we have been using the word 'indexation' and have been referring to the failure to change tax rates over the years, I wish to suggest that the time is more than ripe for there to be a severe look at death duties, certainly in the Federal area where, I believe, ultimately they must be abolished. It is a tiny form of taxation in terms of revenue. At the moment it represents .42 of one per cent of total revenue and in the current year it is estimated to be .39 of one per cent of total revenue. Yet it is a tax that in large measure destroys initiative, that breaks up economic units and that drives a lot of expertise from the various areas of industry and commerce. I believe it is a tax which we should examine and try desperately to relate to the inflation which has occurred during the past 20 years and that we should seek to abolish it in the very near future. 
I do not propose to cover many other areas of the Governor-General's Speech.  Senator Primmer  spoke about foreign affairs and referred to the Russians in the Indian Ocean and to the Timor situation. That is a dreadful situation which I am sure we all regret in the extreme. I cannot understand why the previous Labor Government, with the sympathies it has, did nothing in the last 3 years about this situation. It could well have been promoted in the United Nations with much greater authority than it has been promoted, if it has been promoted at all. I am afraid reality suggests that the Indian Ocean is not likely to become a dreamed of sea of peace. If it is to be a sea of peace, surely we will have to work for a more realistic balance of power in that massive and important ocean. I confine my remarks on this subject to those few words because earlier in this debate  Senator Sim  dealt with the matter at some length. 
I wish to refer one or two of the measures which were brought forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  in his speech. He implied that the present Government had done nothing about the promises which it made to primary industry in particular and he was pleased to talk of what his Government had done for the wool industry. In some measure it did some real good for the wool industry. Far from abrogating our responsibilities to that area, in which  Senator Wriedt  has been interested for a significant length of time, what have we done? The superphosphate bounty has been reintroduced. That is only the implementation of an Industries Assistance Commission interim report. No doubt ultimately we will find that in some circumstances too much will be used, in others too little will be used and in others the wrong sort will be used. But pending the ultimate recommendtion, it was an IAC recommendation which the former Government refused to honour and is an election promise which we have already honoured. 
In the beef industry we have abolished the 1.6c a kilogram export levy on beef. This was in accordance with our policy and it was a recommendation of the IAC. We have reintroduced measures which are designed to eradicate brucellosis and tuberculosis in cattle. Turning to the wool industry, I refer to the 250c a kilogram basic price for the Australian Wool Corporation. Whilst that commitment was honoured by the Labor Party when in government, let us not forget that in May of last year the Labor Party floated the proposal to have a 200c a kilogram basic price as some sort of a kite to test opinion. This created a Shockwave right throughout the world in areas which use, manufacture and retail wool. In the few short weeks that we have been in Government we have taken steps to ensure not only that the price of 250c a kilogram will be the base price for the remainder of this financial year but also that it will be not less than 250c a kilogram for 1976-77. This is surely a real measure of strength and stability to those basic in the wool industry in Australia and abroad. I close by referring again to the final paragraph of the Governor-General 's Speech in which he said: 
The Government is not concerned with power for itself. It is the servant of the Australian people. Its purpose is to work with the people to create an Australian democracy which will be an example to the world of what a free people can achieve. 
I believe that that is basic to the whole tenor of the Speech. It is basic to the whole concern of this Government in legislating for a better and solvent Australia. I have pleasure in supporting the Speech. 
The Minister representing the Treasurer will be aware of  Mr Hamer  's undertaking to abolish probate duty in Victoria on all property passing to one spouse on the death of the other. Do not the current rates of estate duty reflect an unfair and severe penalty due to the rising inflation content of values over the past years? Has not estate duty become a destroyer of economic units, a deterrent to development and a force driving expertise away from important areas of industry and commerce? Is not its impact extremely heavy on the relatively small enterprises over a very wide range of activity? As part of the process of encouraging development and productivity, will the Government seek to reduce drastically the rates of estate duty across the board as a prelude to its early abolition? 
As usual we in that part of the Senate chamber that is occupied by the National Country Party of Australia section of this coalition Government have been treated to the sort of rubbish that we are accustomed to hearing from  Senator Walsh.  I should imagine that it is no great pleasure to him to know that perhaps the greatest compliment that can be passed to those of us in this party and, indeed, in the coalition is for people of the calibre of  Senator Walsh  to talk in the way that he does and constantly to pour that sort of venom on this party. The National Country Party has more than half a century of well-recognised representation of a vast and important part of Australia. It is no credit to  Senator Walsh  or the party he represents that he should come into this chamber and consistently get back into that particular line of address. It may be a compliment to us. It would be more a compliment if it came from a person of somewhat greater standing in the Australian Labor Party than  Senator Walsh. 

 Senator Walsh made several references to the National Country Party. Included in them were references to seat of the pants fundamentalism and papal infallibility. I am sure that  Senator Walsh,  who has proved himself over a period of time to be a man of many syllables but of little meaning, would understand what that sort of rubbish means. It has fallen on deaf ears as far as the Government is concerned and I am quite sure that is has fallen on amazed and disgusted ears wherever people may be listening in.  Senator Walsh  also made reference to my own Leader,  Mr Anthony,  whom he said in 1973 was encouraging an increase in the production of beef cattle. 
-I am so glad that  Senator McLaren  has confirmed what  Senator Walsh  said because  Mr Anthony  was in very good company when he said in those days that there appeared to be a significant future for the Australian beef cattle industry. He was virtually echoing the comments and prophesies of the professionals as well as the industry and, indeed, the Government of those days. I believe that if  Senator Walsh  were honest he would recognise that the Labor Government of that time could see no real overturning in the immediate future of prospects in the beef cattle industry. 
I want to remind the Senate that what happened in the beef cattle industry after those halcyon days of 1973 was the result almost directly of an immediate and apparently unforeseen energy crisis around the world. The effect of the energy crisis on the major meat and beef consuming countries was, in the case of one of our major importers, practically the total use of its foreign exchange on the recovery and importation of sources of energy which, over a period of a few months, suddenly snowballed in cost by something in the vicinity of 500 per cent. That was the sort of exercise which was basic to that distinct, dramatic downturn in the beef cattle industry, particularly as it affected Australia. 
In the beef cattle industry, as in the other elements of major traditional primary industrythe elements of wheat production and wool production- Australia is so tremendously dependent on the export market. In the beef cattle industry we look to the world markets to secure outlets for some 50 per cent-plus of our production. In the wheat industry likewise it is 60 per cent-plus. In the wool industry 94 per cent of the production has to be marketed overseas. Consequently anything that happens, as happened in 1973 and subsequently, to the capacity of our major importers to purchase has a dramatic effect on the primary producing industry in this country. That was the circumstance.  Mr Anthony  and the professional prophets were deceived by factors that nobody had foreseen and I believe that nobody could have foreseen. 
Before I deal briefly with some of the details of this Bill- the Meat Export Charge Amendment Bill 1976-1 believe it is important that we look at the beef cattle industry in Australia with some reference to the history of the last few years. In that history we find the relevant cause of the sort of legislation that we are debating tonight. It is legislation which purports to suspend a total export levy of some 1 .6c per lb. It was back in the 1969, 1970 and 1971 period that the Australian wool industry was in dire straits. We were at the bottom of the barrel as far as prices were concerned. In that circumstance there was great consternation in Australian primary industry across the board. There was a tendency to move into almost any other field. There was a tremendous movement towards the production of beef cattle. It was an industry which had been growing strongly and consistently for many years but which suddenly began to boom numerically because, among other things, the bottom had fallen out of the wool market. 
Because of this transfer and the urgency of the day there was a dramatic increase in price. By 1973 that price level had become quite staggering. The disaster in which the industry has found itself in the last couple of years is relevant to that very high price. Many members of this industry, having purchased high-priced herds, suddenlywithin 12 months- found themselves looking at an asset that had dropped by more than 50 per cent in value. Indeed in the year 1974 alone, if I recall correctly, the price of beef in Australia fell by some 74 per cent. So it was that in 1973, in an extraordinarily buoyant circumstance, the Government of the day implemented the measure which we are now suspending, the Meat Export Charge Amendment Bill. 
It was in November of that year that this legislation was brought into being. Prior to that the cost of inspection was a public revenue matter. But in November it was deemed that this charge should be imposed upon the export section of the beef industry. It was to expire in June 1976. So the legislation was the product of a buoyant circumstance which appeared at the time to be a continuing circumstance. As we all know, that was not to be so. The impact of depressed prices and import quotas on the Australian beef industry has been particularly severe in the Northern Territory and parts of Queensland, as well as in other States, and the beef producer has been left with little, if any, option. So it has been seen fit to suspend this export levy. 
I am surprised that there is any form of opposition to such a suspension from the Opposition here tonight. I regret that it has taken us the best part of a year to get around to taking this step. The suspension of these export charges was certainly the policy that was urged by the Liberal Party and the National Country Party when in opposition many months ago, long before the matter was finally sent to the Industries Assistance Commission for investigation, report and recommendation. It is fascinating to know- it may be relative to the opposition to this measure now displayed by the Opposition-that at the time there was an indication from the Industries Assistance Commission that these levies should be suspended. The measures now before us have been criticised tonight by  Senator Walsh.  In spite of all the criticism, this measure of assistance to a great industry in temporary problem could have become a fact many months ago. When the matter was referred to the Industries Assistance Commission the Whitlam Government of 1975 said to the Commission: 'We do not want a report in 30 days. Ninety days will be soon enough'. When the report came out, in spite of considerable urging no real action was taken. Consequently it is at this relatively late time that we are seeking to implement the recommendations of the IAC report. 
The honourable senator's Party brought in- and they are still in forcesome financial measures to assist the beef industry. The problem with those measures is that the guidelines are so tough that virtually nobody has been able to benefit. A sum of $20m is involved; yet the industry, in spite of its problems and the circumstances in which it finds itself, is unable to satisfy the guidelines that must be satisfied in order to receive moneys from that fund. 
It has been suggested that the waiving of this export charge is not sufficient. In fact it has been suggested that in one area at least it should be opposed. It has been suggested that the suspension of the export charge will be ineffective and that it will not help the people it is meant to help. All I can say is that it is the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission, after much consideration, and it is the view of the Government parties that it is a relevant and proper action to take in an industry which is in considerable danger. It is certainly the view of virtually every producer organisation that this should be one of the measures taken by the Government to aid the beef industry. 
It is interesting to note that the beef industry, like the other major traditional primary industries, has not received massive government aid. The primary industries very largely have been able to stand, with a measure of compensation, on their own feet. They are industries which, when compared with many secondary, professional and tertiary activities in the Australian economy, are in a peculiar circumstance. The Australian primary producing industries have to compete on world markets for the sale of the great mass of their production. They are not in a position- they never have been and they will not be in the foreseeable future- to assess prices by having a look at the cost elements that are constantly involved and which in the last three years have been rising at a massive rate. 
The Australian primary industry has the inherent problem of being dependent on a price structure which bears no relationship to the cost of its product. It is therefore beholden to government to do everything in its power at a time like this to see this great industry through its immediate problems. They are problems now that relate to a period of more than two to three years but which, it is generally conceded around the world and certainly around the beef producing and consuming countries, that will ultimately be lightened significantly. The market will improve. The industry will become stable again. However, I believe that in the short term it is necessary to do what we propose to do in this legislation. 
We simply intend to suspend the lc per lb export levy on export beef which was referable to the inspection of export meat and a further 0.6c per lb which was referable to the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis in the Australian herd. The need for this extremely small move to help this industry at this stage can be identified when one recognises that in 1972-73, for instance, the value of the export beef industry to Australia was no less than $l,022m. Two years later in 1974-75 that had dropped to practically half that figure-a sum of $569m- in a circumstance of snowballing inflation, of increasing costs right along the line in the slaughter houses, in the field of transport and freight and in wages and salaries in the industry. Everywhere one looked one found spiralling costs. In that circumstance the export value of the industry had dropped by virtually 50 per cent. That is the sort of background that makes this legislation so necessary today. 
It is a background that has brought forward the other foreshadowed move of the Government, that is, to implement a slaughter levy of $ 1 per head on all stock, domestic and export, to maintain and increase the program for the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis in the Australian herd. It is of extreme importance that we retain not only a high level of inspection in this industry but also that we seek to eradicate brucellosis and tuberculosis totally and as quickly as possible- the IAC suggests by 1983- from the Australian cattle herd. It is assumed that by that time the American herd will be free of those diseases. It is quite probable- indeed it would be sensible to expect- that meats would not be imported from countries that were not declared free of these diseases. In fact today Germany, though a small importer of beef, will import no meat from countries which are not able to guarantee that their meats are immune from these diseases. 
I will not continue to deal with these matters at length. I conclude by saying that I am somewhat surprised that there should be any form of opposition to a measure which is based on a recommendation of the IAC, and which has been sought by all producer organisations in Australia. This measure has been promoted by my own Party and by the coalition Parties for many months, and perhaps that is why there is opposition to it. I am surprised and disappointed that there is any form of opposition to this measure. The implementation of the measure will have a real effect on the price of cattle to the producer: It will have the effect of returning to the producer if not the total levy of 1 .6c per lb, at least a significant proportion of it. It is because we have to meet the needs of an industry which has fallen into a trough totally outside its own control and its own power to avoid that this measure has been introduced. The beef cattle industry is an extraordinarily significant industry to the total Australian primary producing field and particularly to those areas where beef cattle production is almost the only option open to people in those areas. It is an industry that has a real, proper and worthwhile future. That is generally conceded. This is one measure which we, as Government supporters, have pleasure in promoting tonight. I support the legislation before the chamber. 
I am sure that the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry is aware of the serious implications for the wool trade inside and outside Australia of the current storemen and packers dispute over maximum bale weights. Will the Minister agree that mechanical aids have made wool handling less physically demanding than in the past; that the 204 kilogram limit of about 1965 origin has not been thought excessive in the 10 years that have passed since its introduction, and that weight reduction would erode one of the few areas in which this industry can contain and reduce costs, that is, in the areas of freight and handling? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. As background to my question, may I say that perhaps wage indexation need not be a purely automatic operation without balanced consideration of total economic and social consequences. Perhaps it is not necessary to relate it to statistics alone. In the major commitment to defeat inflation, I ask the Minister whether too tight a definition for the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's observance may not, firstly retard the growth of confidence now emerging, secondly endanger the long-term outlook for all wage and salary earners and, thirdly, place Australia at a further disadvantage as an international trader. 
The Leader of the Government and honourable senators will be aware of the death of Field Marshal Viscount Montgomery. The contribution of this famous soldier to the allied cause during World War 1 1 and his association with the Australian forces is well known; indeed, it is almost legendary. Would the Minister feel it appropriate to place in the records of this chamber acknowledgment of the contribution of this great soldier to the cause of free peoples? 
I rise to support the Bill which seeks to establish the Australia- Japan Foundation. I am pleased that the Opposition sees fit to support this excellent piece of legislation, the excellent objectives of which were probably started, to the Opposition's credit, back in November 1974 when the Japanese cultural agreement was signed by the government of that day. I hope  Senator Button  in his support for this legislation did not really mean to indicate what I seemed to register as a measure of cynicism. I do not believe that the sort of objectives that the Foundation has before it have any hope of ultimate survival, development and fruition if we approach them with a measure of cynicism and talk about the project as being just a bit of cultural gloss. I do not believe that Australians in general and I do not feel that the Opposition when down to tintacks would feel that this was just a matter of glossing over a circumstance to try to permeate and develop a trading arrangement that has existed and grown over many years. 
I believe it is significant that this piece of legislation should be debated here and agreed upon in the Senate. It seems to bear a real relevance to the recommendations and conclusions of a Senate standing committee which inquired into the extremely wide reference of Japan some two or three years ago. The Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence brought down an excellent report in, I think, January 1 973. We are at the stage now where we have just regrouped and re-identified a number of these committees. The work of these committees in their investigations has been fundamental and basic to worthwhile legislation. This is well known and is further evidence of the sort of contribution which such committees can make to responsible and constructive legislation in this country.  Senator Sim  who was the  Chairman  of the Committee which investigated the reference Japan' drew the attention of the Senate to No. 15 of the conclusions and recommendations. This paragraph referred to the absolute need for the development of cultural and social relationships between Australia and Japan. It was recommended that these relationships should go far beyond the current and somewhat traditional trading relationships. I draw the attention of the Senate to No. 16 of those conclusions and recommendations which states: 
The Committee believes that there are insufficient opportunities for the study of Asian Languages and Cultures in Australia. It therefore recommends that provision be made for: 
a study of Japan in social studies at the primary school level, not necessarily incorporating language training; 
a wider opportunity for the Japanese language to be studied in secondary schools; 
specialised teaching in Japanese language to interpreter or equivalent level at a limited number of tertiary institutions, with more general courses available to those studying Japanese in association with another discipline; 
adult education opportunities covering the broad spectrum of Japan and its culture. 
In recommendation No. 18 the Committee recommended the negotiation of a cultural agreement between the 2 countries. This is the agreement to which I referred a few moments ago. It was signed in November 1974. The Committee also recommended:   . . that the Government give consideration to the establishment of an Australian cultural foundation, with government financial support, to foster Australian cultural relations with other countries. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to these conclusions and recommendations because they are clearly basic to the whole concept of the legislation which is before us. The legislation seeks to establish an Australia-Japan Foundation as an independent statutory authority with a maximum membership of fifteen and a minimum of five. This Foundation has as its functions, which are clearly stated in clause 5 of the Bill, the promotion of the study of the people of Japan and Australia across a very wide canvas. The canvas is related to social and political institutions, to language and culture and to the economic structure of the 2 countries. That is certainly a wide area for this Foundation to take as its province. Because it is wide it is just that much more important. 
Clause 6 sets out the powers with which the Foundation will be endowed to further this study. It makes clear that the Foundation is to operate in Japan as it is in Australia. In Japan it is proposed that the head office will be established in Tokyo. So this is to be a 2-way operation. It is only in this circumstance that the Foundation can really expect to achieve its objectives. 
This sort of foundation, which is relevant to an evolving relationship between Australia and 
Japan, is an historical step and one which, hopefully, will be followed in our relationships with many other countries in this zone and around the world. It is historic because it marks a movement in relationships between these 2 countries which has been primarily, to this point, a movement in trade and commerce. This legislation marks a movement towards a cultural understanding of our histories, priorities and attitudes which alone, I suppose, can ultimately be the derivatives of a peaceful and secure situation. It must be recalled that these associations between Australia and Japan have grown from a pretty dreadful and painful exercise in a dangerous and violent war which left both countries with a great legacy of insecurity, a lack of understanding, doubt and wonderment. 
It is with that sort of base that over the years which have interceded since the Second World War we have seen fit, for obvious and natural reasons, to become trading partners. It is a difficult but nonetheless extraordinarily important step that we move through from that area of activity to an area which covers a far wider and deeper concern. We move into an area which, in some way, will humanise the relationship between the 2 countries. The relationship must become relevant to our cultures, aspirations and history. It was said in the 19th century, very simplistically, that if butter does not cross frontiers the guns will. I believe that we have grown out of that circumstance and attitude today. But that was said, and history has borne it out.  Senator Button  confirmed that this was true. While I do not believe that that remark applies to the circumstance at which we are looking in this latter part of the 20th century, it does mean that something more than mere trade in goods and services has to pass between people if there is to be a per.manance of understanding and security between those people. 
It is that circumstance which this legislation seeks to bring about. It seeks to make sure that between the peoples of Australia and Japan there will be not only trade in goods and services, but also an interchange of ideas and peoples. In the broader aspect, unless there is a passage across the frontiers of peoples, ideas and attitudes we will continue to follow the somewhat tragic course which mankind has followed in the last several thousand years. The person to person contact which is envisaged and the depth of research which this Foundation seeks to establish are basic to the ultimate total relationship between Australia and Japan in this case and between Australia and virtually any other country in the ultimate. This Bill strengthens and widens the legislation which was brought down in November 1974 when the cultural agreement between our 2 countries was signed. 
This legislation seeks to expand what was started then. It seeks to develop a real measure of continuity of contact. I suppose that is the most important safeguard that there can be between any countries. It is our hope, and no doubt the hope of the Opposition, that that will be the circumstance which follows the establishment of this Foundation. Of course, the economic relationship has been the predominant relationship between Australia and Japan in the years that have followed the Second Word War. Indeed, it was significant before that time. I need hardly bore the Senate with a mass of statistics. It is sufficient for me to remind the Senate that Japan is easily Australia's biggest export market and that she is the third largest source of our imports. In 1974-75 Japan took from Australia 28 per cent of her total exports. Australia, in turn, took from Japan 18 per cent of Australia's total imports. Australia was the second greatest across-the-board two-way trading partner of Japan. Trade with Australia represented some 6.5 per cent of Japan's total imports and 3.5 per cent of her total exports. That, of course, is a significant economic relationship. 
I think we have to realise as we consider this legislation that the hopes for its success in the future that it will in fact consolidate and develop a proper relationship. We have to recognise that Japan does desire a real measure of involvement, certainly in Australian economic circumstances and perhaps in our social circumstances. I do not believe it is unreasonable that this should be the case. I believe that if there were a measure of participation it would be to the mutual benefit of both countries. It is recognised today by Japan that Australia will, of course, require and insist upon a majority of ownership and control in any venture. This is basic to the relationship between our 2 countries in the trading field. I believe it is essential that we establish a measure of involvement and a measure of participation with the Japanese who already are participating in areas such as the coal industry, and in significant decentralised industries in my own State of New South Wales at Orange and Cowra where there are wool tops operations. The measure of Japanese participation and involvement in the motor industry and in other areas is well known. It is to our mutual benefit that such an involvement with a proper and real measure of control, should continue. I believe that the widening of understanding that ultimately must come from the operation of this Foundation will help to establish a further area of participation and involvement. 
In today's circumstances, Japan represents a market that is fundamental to the development of the Australian economy. It is even more fundamental than it was perhaps 10 years ago. As a result of the barriers that surround the European Economic Community, we have been forced to look far afield for new and potential markets. In that area, Japan has been perhaps the most significant. Indeed, her significance is added to by the fact that in her own estimates she is looking at a growth rate of 7 per cent. Even if this is too optimistic an estimate and if it were to be three, four or five per cent, it would be enormously significant in the development of trade potential with the Australian community. Australia is a supplier to the Japanese of raw materials and of the traditional primary products of beef, wool and meat. Australia is a source of minerals- of iron ore, coal and uranium. It has fantastic opportunities, I believe, in the area of natural gas which must be of great importance to the development of the Japanese nation. It is important that with this involvement we have a real understanding of each other that goes beyond the mere passage of goods and services across the sea. 
Japan has perhaps fewer similarities to Australia than to most countries. Japan is an island and we are an island people, but there the similarities seem to end. Japan is a relatively tiny island with savage topographical character and features. Australia, on the other hand, is massive. Japan has a population of 120 million or more. Australia has a population of 13 million. Japan has cultural and religious differences which are quite dramatic when compared with those that exist in Australia. Perhaps the most dramatic and total difference is that of language. The widespread differences between our peoples and our circumstances is all the more reason why the undertaking involved in the establishment of this Foundation should be followed with enthusiasm. There is no doubt, I believe, that the conception of this Foundation is so wide that it can be related- as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  said- to the conception of the Churchill scholarships. It is so wide that it will cover virtually every area of human activity. 
The authority that we seek to establish with this legislation is the result of a number of things. Not the least of those is the intense involvement of the Committee headed by  Sir John  Crawford who carried out in-depth research into this matter and, indeed, the promotion, the activity and the involvement of Australia's Ambassador in 
Japan,  Mr Shann.  I hope and I believe that by financing this sort of operation the primary and secondary industrial and commercial enterprises of Australia, as well as the Government, will take a real measure of responsibility. I hope that the projections and the ideas of this Foundation between Australia and Japan will become ideas and projections that emanate from Australia to many other countries in this zone and to other countries so that they will become, indeed, the objectives of relations between other countries themselves. 
In closing my remarks I wish to refer for a few moments to the importance of language which was referred to in the recommendations of the Foreign Affairs Committee in its report of 1973. It has often been said- it is commonly said- that money is the medium of exchange. Of course it is. It is the medium of exchange of goods and services. Likewise, I believe that perhaps the most important medium of exchange in the long term, is language. Without language there is no real depth of understanding between peoples within a country or between countries. Consequently, I believe that of all the avenues of attack that must be taken constructively- they are difficult, they will take time and they will be costly- the development of a wider understanding of the language of Japan becomes absolutely essential if the operation of this Foundation is to succeed in its real and ultimate objectives. I commend the Bill. 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether he is aware that the Parents and Citizens Association of New South Wales, perhaps prompted by the Teachers Federation, plans a protest operation in Canberra for Thursday 29 April. Is the Minister aware that the source of concern appears to lie around a 3-year expenditure program in education? Is it not the policy of this Government that such a program will be developed and implemented? Could the concern stem from the Whitlam Government's abrogation of its commitments to education in the current triennium? Does the Minister feel that pressure is being created by the Teachers Federation on the Parent and Citizens Association to adopt this militant operation? Will the Minister comment on the extremely constructive role normally played by P &amp; C associations throughout Australia, a role not identified with militancy? 
rise to support the legislation before the chamber and to oppose the amendment which  Senator Gietzelt  has moved. Before I enter into a further analysis of the legislation before us I will devote a few moments to deal with one or two points which the Opposition, through  Senator Gietzelt,  has raised. It seems rather surprising to me that the Opposition should take the stance that it will support the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill and will oppose the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill. To me this seems to indicate that the Opposition perhaps does not understand the significance of these measures. The real purpose of applying superphosphate in the industries in which it is used is to establish nitrogen in the soil by encouraging the growth of legumes. So it seems rather fascinating to oppose a Bill, the operation of which must tend to increase the nitrogen content in the Australian soil and to support a Bill which is referable to a subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers themselves. In my view, both elements tends to contribute to the various bands of primary industries in particular the same sorts of advantages. 

 Senator Gietzelt said that in the legislation before us the cost to revenue is far greater than the benefits derived. This again seems to be contradicted by the facts as I have read them over the years, particularly in recent times. It has been found by numerous authorities that the return to the revenue department of this country from the superphosphate bounty, which at its pinnacle as  Senator Gietzelt  said amounted to $67m, amounted to some $200m. This is the sort of circumstance that the Opposition chooses to ignore. I believe that the Australian communitycertainly, the whole of the rural community and those who are involved with the manufacture, distribution and application of superphosphateis aware of the facts as I have promoted them to the Senate this afternoon. 
It is extraordinary that this legislation should be opposed when one looks at its real nature. All that the Government is proposing to do is to reintroduce a superphosphate bounty until the end of June 1977. It is proposing to continue the nitrogenous fertilisers bounty until the end of this year. These are not only recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission established by the former Government- the present Opposition; they are also sensible undertakings. This legislation involves the introduction of a circumstance which is recommended by the IAC, which takes the view that it is reasonable that the period for the bounty should be extended to a year beyond the point at which its final recommendations will be brought down. That sort of extension gives the Government and the users and manufacturers of superphosphate alike an opportunity to assess the future needs in this area. 
It may well be that the bounty should be abolished. It may well be that it should be diminished or increased. But it is important that industry and government alike have the opportunity to analyse the recommendations of the body which has been confronted with this task. The message I leave is that the final review is pending. It is perfectly logical and responsible that the Government should react to that circumstance. That is the objective of the legislation that is before us.  Senator Gietzelt  referred to the fact that the Australian Labor Party, when in government, had retained a great measure of responsibility towards the primary industries and those areas directly involved in primary industrial pursuits. Yet it seems rather extraordinary when one casts back one's mind and looks at the contribution of the Labor Government's first Budget that in one fell swoop the compensations and incentives that had been delivered and achieved over virtually a quarter of a century in primary production and, indeed, in petroleum and mineral production in Australia were wiped out. There was a dramatic reaction throughout rural Australia, a reaction which today has led to a circumstance in which hardly a single electorate in rural Australia is held by the ALP. This does not seem to me to suggest that the actions and attitudes of the ALP to that part of Australia have been terribly popular and effective in gaining the support of the people. 
Indeed, the inaction that we have seen referable to the IAC recommendation on superphosphate has been typical of the inaction which has occurred over the last 12 months and in excess of the last 12 months by the former Whitlam Government. I recall not only the compensations and incentives which were wiped away; I recall also the suggestions of the IAC referable to the new land farms in Western Australia and to the use of superphosphate in that area. Those suggestions also were ignored until last November when the Labor Government ceased to operate. It seems to me that certainly this was a recommendation that should have been looked at and acted upon with great speed because in that particular area some 28 per cent to 35 per cent of the cost of the farming operation is referable to the cost of superphosphate alone. This is an area in which quick action most certainly should have been taken. 
The April 1975 report of the IAC on the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis was another report upon which no action was taken. 
Yet, in the relative short term a tremendous responsibility lies on the Australian beef industry and the Government to eradicate these diseases from the Australian herd. This is relevant to our capacity to maintain the markets that we have and to find potential new markets which we must have in the longer term if we are to grow in some sort of relationship to our capacity to produce. The report on rural income fluctuations was brought down in June 1975. There has been no action taken on it. I recall that the presentation of the report of the IAC on the beef industry was delayed for some 60 days until after the bringing down of the 1 975 Budget. The report of that IAC inquiry was again ignored by the then Labor Government.  Senator Gietzelt  said that we have lived up to none of our promises. Yet we have taken regard and acted upon quite a significant number of undertakings in a short period of 3 months. Producers in the beef industry are well aware that within a few weeks the recommendation to suspend the 1.6c per lb export levy, which has passed through the Parliament, will come into effect. I could refer also to the wool fiasco. But I will not go any further in reminding the Senate that there was literally no action taken by  Senator Geitzelt  and the Party that he represents in regard to rural Australia. 
-I think it would not be desirable for the honourable senator to invite me to talk about what happened in May of 1974 in regard to the floor price for wool. So to spare the honourable senator the embarrassment of that, I - 
-If it is not embarrassing the honourable senator, it certainly should be.  Senator Gietzelt  said that the area of need is paramount in large areas of legislation. I agree with him. Let us have a look at the area of need in regard to superphosphate. I remind the Senate that only 20 per cent of superphosphate used in Australia is used in the wheat producing industry. The remaining 80 per cent of superphosphate is used for providing pasture for the production of beef, mutton and lamb. It is used in the dairying industry, in the dried vine fruits industry and in the apple and pear industry. The point I make is that these are the industries which, at least temporarily, are in greatest need in the whole of the Australian economy. The need certainly is there and in some measure it is met by the implementation of the superphosphate bounty.- 1 recall that  Senator 
Gietzelt said that prior to 1974 the bounty represented 42 per cent of the base price of superphosphate and that since its reintroduction it represents only 20 per cent the price of superphosphate due of course, to the increased price of phosphate rock. That is an extraordinarily poor argument for saying: Let us not reintroduce the bounty. I believe that it is an argument for making it heavier. Who knows what ultimately the decisions of the Industries Assistance Commission may be? But to suggest that because that factor now represents a smaller percentage of the price of superphosphate to the user is a reason to abolish the bounty to me seems a rather pathetic view. If it had any significance at all, it would suggest that it should be increased rather than diminished. 
I agree with  Senator Gietzelt  that primary industries are a resilient type of industry. It is not in their nature to seek handouts. It never has been and never will be. But let us look for a moment at real farm income in the last few years. Let us see whether at least in the short term there is not a proper reason for an element of help in these industries? In 1972-73 real farm income was approximately $ 1,370m. In the following year, 1973-74, it rose quite dramatically through extremely high prices for a short period in the beef and wool industries to $ 1,930m. But the next year, 1974-75, it fell just as dramaticallyeven more dramatically- to a figure of $925m, less than half that of 1973-74. The estimate for 1975-76 is lower again, putting real farm income at$854m. 
This is an indication - 
The honourable senator says $760m. I might ask him: If it was $760m in 1 970 and the estimate for this year $854m, and if we take into account the relevance of inflation and spiralling costs which increased in 1974 alone by 34 per cent, is not $760m almost a grand figure when compared with $854m estimated in the current year? The point I make is that there is a real need in this industry for support at this time. I am certainly not suggesting that bounties and handouts are part of the nature or part of the need in the long term of primary production industries. They do suffer particular and peculiar ailments or, shall I say, problems, peculiar with their marketing circumstances. Primary industries and the minerals industry in Australia must seek on open world markets a demand for their product ranging from 65 per cent to 95 per cent of their total production. Herein lies the peculiar difficulty of primary industries in this country. They must find a market at a world price which bears no relevance to the cost circumstances in their own industry. This is the position that exists and this is the position in respect of which from time to time reasonable incentive and compensation becomes totally justifiable. 
There are indeed considerable areas of economic justification for the bounty that is proposed to be reintroduced for a short term at this time. The first one certainly is referable to the agricultural, wool and meat industries of Australia insofar as they are low protection areas. In terms of economic justification, they certainly must rate high on the scale of industry support anywhere across the board. 

 Senator Gietzelt referred to the Green Paper on Agriculture that his Government sought. It was a most worthwhile paper. I seem to recall that among the recommendations of that Green Paper was a recommendation that a proper measure of tariff compensation was a reasonable and proper attitude. This is the purpose of legislation of this type and is far removed, I suggest, from the attitude which was tragically followed when the Whitlam Government sought to cut tariffs by 25 per cent across the board. Action of that type played a considerable part in bringing about rapidly the sort of disintegration that this economy suffered. 
If there was any real reason for the reintroduction of the bounty it surely must be found in the fact that the price of rock phosphate itself has increased so significantly. In the last 12 months it has moved in round figures, from $35 a ton to $60 a ton. Surely that sort of movement is a justification, at least in the short term, for the reintroduction of a measure of assistance, which is the object of this legislation. 
Sitting suspended from 5.46 to 8 p.m. 
-Mr President-(Quorumformed). Such are the demands of tolerance. Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the possibility that in the longer term there may be a real reduction in the cost of superphosphate in Australia as a result of the development of our own phosphate rock deposits which at this stage are chiefly in Queensland. However, I said that in the short term, unfortunately, because of the cost of infrastructure, the changing of the rock itself and of the manufacturing equipment, there is no likelihood that there will be such a reduction in cost to the industry. 
Very briefly I would like now to refer to a matter which I skimmed over early in my speech but which, I believe, is important to this discussion. It relates to the basic significance of superphosphate in the Australian scene. I raise the subject because I think there are some misconceptions about it. Superphosphate as it is used in Australia today, and as it is promoted in Australia today, is not necessarily being used in the right amount and it is not necessarily being applied in the right manner or in the right form. Although this is totally irrelevant to the Bill that is before the House, because we are suggesting the re-introduction of this bounty for a specific and relatively short period pending results of further investigations I ask the Senate to consider that there is a real need for the use of superphosphate in Australia. This need arises from the fact that Australia is the most phosphatedeficient land on earth and, being so deficient, we have a responsibility to make this type of fertiliser more easily accessible to the Australian producer. 
Superphosphate is of great significance in affecting the soil structure so that there is a continuing increase in yield of agricultural products, whether in the form of grain, textile material such as wool and cotton, meat, dairy products or fruit. Referable to yield, superphosphate is of extreme importance. It is of equal importance to the quality of the product that the Australian industry produces. Superphosphate of itself does not add to or subtract anything from the soil but it does aid significantly the germination of plant life and promotes the growth of legumes- that is, various types of subterranean clover and lucerne which are the product in the main of Australia scientific and agricultural research- which add nitrogen to the soil. Legumes quite easily are the cheapest source of nitrogen for Australian soil and because superphosphate has this effect on legumes it has contributed significantly in the years from 1940 to 1970 and beyond to the quite dramatic increase in the average yield per acre in Australia. It has increased this yield not only in volume but also in quality. 
I would be the first to admit that this is due to a number of other circumstances as well. It is due to the breeding of different grain and plant types. It is due to better methods of cultivation, to better control and understanding of soil texture. It is due to research and development in machinery. It is due to the constant research into and continuing use of chemicals in Australian agriculture. However, most of all this significant growth in agricultural production is due to the gaining of a nitrogen content in Australian soil at a very cheap cost. Superphosphate also has enabled increased production of swards of various types of legume pasture. It has been significant in bringing about a noticeable change in climate over a quite large area of Australia and has divorced our dependence for primary production from the river valleys. Today as a result of the intelligent application of superphosphate and the breeding of legumes we are able to conserve in areas well beyond the river valleys, which have been the traditional areas of fodder production, sufficient fodder to enable this type of country to carry the enormously increased stock numbers that it has on it. 
At this time we are faced with a situation in which the cost of superphosphate has increased by about 22 per cent and in which for 12 months we have seen no bounty on this product at all. If we add to this the circumstance that relates to almost 80 per cent of primary production, one can see the real measure of need, the real responsibility that lies with a government, to ensure that there is aid by way of a bounty for the industry pending- and mark the word 'pending' the results of final investigations by the Industries Assistance Commission and the ascertaining by the Government of the correct promotion from that point. I refer the Senate to the statement of Professor Donald of the Waite Agricultural Research Institute in Adelaide. I believe that these are most significant words coming from one as prominent in agricultural research as Professor Donald. He said: 
I cannot think of any incentive to the rural sector likely to return so much to the nation in both soil health for the future and in terms of straight economic returns. 
I think that, in the light of those words and in the light of other things that I have said about the superphosphate and its value in the Australian agricultural and primary producing scene, I should quote the words of  Mr Whitlam  when speaking on this Bill in the other place. He is reported in  Hansard  as having said: 
The $30m squandered by this legislation is waste and extravagance with a vengeance. 
I am sure that no man or woman in rural Australia would agree with that sort of opinion. In fact that sort of opinion seems to me to promote a total misunderstanding of the significance of the whole matter that is before the Senate tonight. 
In closing, I make the point that in this Bill we are proposing that a measure of support be reintroduced for a temporary period only pending an opportunity to examine the report of the Industries Assistance Commission. It is an attitude that is reasonable and responsible. I am somewhat sad to look at the Opposition's amendment which we oppose and which seems to me to have nothing in its favour other than a sort of appeal to emotions in a circumstance that is totally unrealistic. We are talking about a bounty which will give the same percentage of advantage to anybody whether he be a small producer, a medium producer or a large producer. We are talking about something that is relevant to the total productive capacity of this country, not to individuals, to groups or to others. I support the Bill and oppose the somewhat irresponsible amendment. 
I rise to make just a few points in the debate on the motion for the first reading of the Wheat Export Charge Amendment Bill 1976. In the circumstances of today, of course, the debate has been used as an election campaigning exercise. It seems to me to be rather strange that the Labor Party in the Senate has chosen to use most of the time today to identify itself totally and absolutely with  Mr Wran  and the New South Wales Labor Party which desperately seeks office in New South Wales on Saturday. It seems to me and, indeed, to most Australians, in view of the decisions they have made over a period of 12 months or so, to be strange that the Whitlam men in this place are still intent, regardless of the thoughts and wishes-  Quorum formed).  I note that once again there are 5 members of the Labor Party in the Senate. That seems to be Labor's average attendance. It is rather remarkable that only 5 Labor senators should see fit to be here engaged in an exercise which Labor itself projected today and which I presume is related to the coming election in New South Wales. However, there are 5 Labor senators present. I was saying - 
Well, an attendance of five is above average, I will admit. But if honourable senators insist on accuracy I take the point that there are only 4 members of the Labor Party present. Some few moments ago, I was making the point that it does seem rather extraordinary that, in the circumstances of recent months and in spite of the fears of  Mr Wran  and what there is of the Labor Party in New South Wales, the Whitlam Labor Party in the federal field here in Canberra should insist on using most of this debate to identify itself with  Mr Wran  and with what is Labor in New South Wales. I am sure that it could do no greater disservice to  Mr Wran,  whatever chances he may have, than to identify itself so clearly with him and with his program. Indeed,  Mr Wran  has been quite clear and quite insistent that he regards himself and his Party in New South Wales as something apart. But that is not to be. There has been an insistence by the Whitlam group in Canberra on being associated with  Mr Wran. Mr Wran's  fear that such an involvement would come about is held in common with virtually every other Labor leader in the Commonwealth. 

 Mr President, I am reminded that in July of last year  Mr Dunstan,  the Labor Premier of 
South Australia, sought desperately to bring about an election before the Labor Budget was presented a month later in Canberra. Even though he succeeded in holding that election a month before the Federal Budget which filled him with fear was presented he gained only a one seat majority in those circumstances. Of course,  Mr Holding  in Victoria, whose Party was so severely defeated in the recent State election, would have no brief for Federal intervention in his State. A similar sentiment would be felt, I guess, by the Labor remnant, if I could call it that, in Queensland. 
-It is a cricket team. Judging by the remarks of the last  speaker,  a Queensland senator, it seems to be involved with matters relating to toilet paper and other such materials. However, I am sure that the remnant of the Labor Party in Queensland is not terribly keen about involvement with its Federal partner. The same is the case in Tasmania. 

 Mr President, I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that  Mr Wran  in one particular is totally out of step with his fellow Labor leaders in the other States, his brothers in the various State Labor parties.  Mr Wran  alone, in isolation in New South Wales, has set himself up as totally opposed to the federalism system which has been accepted and applauded by virtually every Labor leader, whether he be a premier or a leader of the opposition.  Mr Wran  is out on a limb. He has certainly allied himself to the Whitlam attitude in that he has concerned himself with promises worth hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars. He certainly does not seek to be involved in a circumstance which will produce for New South Wales a better share of federal personal income tax moneys. 
It is, I believe, quite significant that  Mr Wran  alone of members of the Labor movement in the Australian States chooses to abuse, and to divorce himself from acceptance of, the new federalism system that has been accepted on every other hand. There is no doubt that today the double tax bogy which seems to be the only subject about which  Mr Wran  finds to talk, other than his massive multi-million dollar promises, has been laid to rest by  Senator Carrick, Senator Wright  and almost every other senator who has spoken from the Government side in the course of today's proceedings. What will happen is that a specific percentage of personal income tax raised in each State will be returned to that State. A measure of confidence must be generated from the knowledge that that is at last to be a specific and clear undertaking to the various States of this Commonwealth. If a State at any time should see fit to raise by a tiny percentage the level of tax or indeed to be involved in rebates, that is a matter and a responsibility for the State itself. It is not something that we should judge to be right or wrong. Surely the sovereign States of this Commonwealth have the power and indeed the right to exercise such a responsibility in government. 
If they see fit to seek more money for any reason, whether it be through this or other avenues, it may well be that by this action the States can reduce such tough and unpopular measures as indirect taxation. This could well be the reason that may see the States seek to raise money in other areas. But that is a province of government. If governments raise money they must share the responsibility that comes from that exercise. States raise moneys for specific reasons including further development in education or communication or whatever the case may be, or, as I said before, to reduce the damaging impost of indirect taxation. 
I make the point finally in this respect that it is for the sovereign States to bear a full measure of responsibility in these matters. They are able and, with the exception of  Mr Wran,  those with responsibility in this direction, to have indicated their preparedness so to do. 
I have mentioned, and I believe it should not be forgotten, that there is the possibility, and in some circumstances the probability, that there may well be rebates in the taxation field if an economy succeeds, as we believe it will succeed, in developing a measure of productivity which will see an eradication of a high level of inflation, unemployment and industrial unrest. In those circumstances, it could well be that rebates rather than tax increases would become a reality from the provisions of the new federalism philosophy. I make the point that the strength of a democracy is surely that the state will remain the servant and not the master of the people. I am sure, particularly because of the intervention of the federal centralist Labor Party in today's proceedings, that the people of New South Wales are well aware of the meaning of the state as the servant and not the master of the people, for the socialist experiment in the last 3 years has indicated beyond all measure of doubt that in that circumstance the state becomes the master of the people. 
It has been indicated time and again- indeed, in 2 elections in the last couple of years- that the responsibility of government and of particular houses of parliament has been exhibited by the very Senate which has been debating these matters today. Had the actions that have been taken by the Senate in the last couple of years not been responsible actions, I put it to you,  Mr President,  and to honourable senators that we would not have a significant majority in this chamber today. So there is a measure of responsibility, and the Australian people have indicated their recognition of that responsibility. The sovereign States are adult entities and they do not need to be totally directed from a centralist circumstance, such as was the Whitlam Labor Government. 
I refer very briefly to the concept of federalism itself because, after all, this is the matter that has been predominant in the exercise in which we have become involved today- not, mark you, at our choice. The concept of federalism involves the exercise of responsibility by people on the spot. It concerns itself with a constitutional and governmental set up in which the attitudes and priorities of people on the spot are the attitudes and priorities that are capable of being followed. That is what federalism is all about. This set-up is starkly opposite to the attitudes and values of the centralist socialist experiment which has occurred in Australia during the last 3 years. 
I have noted that a number of things have been said today and in rounding off my remarks I will mention but a few of them. Earlier  Senator Wriedt  said, amongst other things, that we must deal with national problems at the national level. That is no reflection on the policies and attitudes of a federalist society. Of course we deal with national problems at the national level. Are not the national problems in the context of the Commonwealth of Australia the sovereign rights and responsibilities of the States themselves? Of course they are national problems, and we accept and recognise them as just that.  Senator Wriedt  also said that federalism was politically motivated. He referred us back to the Liberal and National Country Party policy on federalism and said that it was politically motivated. Is that a condemnation of the policy? Is there any policy of any party in this chamber that does not in some way bear relevance to political motivation? If federalism is the expression of our philosophy as a group of political organisations, surely it is our right to project that sort of thing. As socialism and centralism- the destruction of the power of the Senate and local government- are the particular philosophy of honourable senators opposite, of course they have the right to promote and project them. That is exactly what they have been doing. But they never did it so clearly as they did when they were in government. 

 Mr Wran's socialist attitudes are identical with the socialist attitudes and programs of the former Whitlam Government. At another stage in his speech  Senator Wriedt  referred to the increased payments which had been made to the States. I think he said that in the Labor Government's first year of office there was an increase of 20 per cent in the payments to the States and that there was an increase of 50 per cent in its second year in office. I have not the percentage increase for the third year of office of the Labor Party, but it was a significant figure. That sounds excellent, but let us have a look at the result of these massive increases in payments to the States. We find that this country had a national deficit of $5 billion. That was the net result of these gifts of increasing percentages of money. On the surface it sounds fine, but in actual fact when one relates these increased payments to the circumstances that were the prelude to the Federal election in December 1975 one finds that they were part of a system- in fact, part of an ideology- that produced for this country a national deficit beyond the imagination of any Australians up to that time. 
Together with that deficit of $5 billion came record levels of inflation, unemployment and industrial unrest to which we became accustomed in the last 3 years. The damage that was done to the national character of Australia in that period was considerable. We were in danger of becoming a community brain-washed into assuming that the state could provide everything and that it was everybody's right to be looked after, no matter what. Initiative was to be left aside. Initiative was to have no place in the character of this great country. So the promises of  Mr Wran  surely must be related to the $5 billion deficit that the promises and actions of the Whitlam socialists achieved during the 3 years that they occupied the Federal treasury bench. 
It is also suggested that the new federalism policy will lead to competition between the States for developing resources. If that were a fact, is it so bad? Is it so bad that there should be a measure of competition in developing areas of this great continent? I suggest it is far better that such competition in development should exist than that we should find ourselves in the position of virtual total inertia in which our growth rate reached, rather alarmingly for the first time in the history of this country, a negative figure. I remind the Senate and the people who may be listening to the broadcast of these proceedings that in the State of New South Wales- that is the matter which the Labor Party has debated in this chamber today- in 1 1 years of Liberal-Country Party Government, there have been great advances in the areas of education, health and hospital facilities, decentralisation and communications. Of course, excellent progress has been made in the communications field in the 1 1 years in which the Liberal-Country Party Government has been in office in New South Wales. This progress has been made in spite of the extraordinary difficulties associated with inflation which occurred during the last 3 years when Labor occupied the Federal treasury bench. 
I conclude by saying, as I said in the beginning, that there can be no doubt that this exercise by the Whitlam Labor Party in the Senate in Canberra today has identified that Party and all that it was able to achieve in its 3 years in government with the proposed Wran legislation in New South Wales. It is an identity which the people of New South Wales will recognise with a great and, I am sure, alarming clarity. They will vote as one would expect them to vote on having become aware of that sort of a threat to the most populous, and indeed the oldest, State in Australia. 
I rise to speak briefly in this cognate debate on the wheat industry legislation now before us in which we are considering the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Amendment Bill, the Wheat Export Charge Amendment Bill and the Wheat Products Export Adjustment Amendment Bill. I will not take any time in explaining the intricacies of these pieces of legislation;  Senator Gietzelt  has already adequately told us what is their portent. I do feel that, in the course of the next few minutes, I should address a few words in relation to the wheat industry itself, its place in the Australian economy and the position of the wheat farmer who, quite obviously, is fairly basic to the wheat industry. I appreciate the support that  Senator Gietzelt  has indicated to this legislation. I noted that he intends to exhibit a sympathetic ear to the problems of rural Australia. I am certainly glad to hear that and I am sure that his colleagues in the Labor Party also will be glad to hear it because in extra-metropolitan Australia today almost every seat is held by the National Country Party and our colleagues in government, the Liberal Party. 
The purpose of the major Bill- the other 2 Bills are supplementary machinery measures related to it- is to incorporate in the annual adjustment of the home consumption price of wheat an amount which is referable to the value of the labour increment- that is, the labour on the part of the owner-operator in the farming undertaking. Indeed, it is high time that this was once again part of the legislation and part of the construction of that home consumption price. In the first 4 stabilisation plans, it was the annual adjustment of that increment that contributed to the final home consumption price. In the fifth Elan, for reasons that basically  Senator Gietzelt  as outlined, it was held to be constant along with a number of other items. Of course, this was in the longer term an unacceptable position, and it has become particularly unacceptable in the circumstances of spiralling costs and inflation in this country. To hold that factor constant for a period of 5 years in relation to the return on the owner-operator's labour is certainly an unfair imposition on the farming community and the owner-operator in particular. 
I think it is reasonable to make the comment that, over the many years of stabilisation plans that have passed, the contribution to the consuming public of wheat and wheat products in Australia by the wheat producing industry amounts to approximately $500m. I do not say that with any sort of malice. I mention it in order that people may recognise the type of contribution that the industry makes in order that it retains for itself a measure of stability. I would suggest that there is not one farmer in Australia today who would be opposed to the concept of and the imposition of stabilisation schemes. Even at today's prices and today's increased home consumption price there is still virtually what is a subsidy to the consumer in the Australian context of some $50m annually. I make those comments not with any manner of malice but merely because I believe that they should be said. From time to time there are misconceptions and misrepresentations suggesting that the stabilisation plan for wheat as for other products is an example of the community subsidising those engaged in the industry. It is important that people should realise that this certainly is not the circumstance. 
I do not intend to say anything more on the Bills themselves at this stage as their provisions have been outlined, as I said, by  Senator Gietzelt.  But, as they are referable to the great Australian wheat industry, I believe it is proper that we should have a slight look at those people who are the basic members of the industry, namely, the farmer himself and his family. It is certainly appropriate that in an industry such as the wheat industry there should be an amount added, as is proposed in this legislation, which is referable to the labour input in the home consumption price. Historically, the Australian farmer has been very much an individualist. Indeed, I suppose that one of the basic reasons why it took so long to make the final move towards stabilisation in this industry was that the farmers of this country were used to combating the various problems in the industry under their own steam. They encountered difficulty in building up the sort of mentality that brought them into the total stabilisation scheme. That is one of the basic or characteristic reasons why for many years it was so difficult to introduce stabilisation schemes into this industry. It was due to his individualist character and his habit of being a master of makeship and a jack of many trades. The farmer would make no apology for that and nor would I because it is one of the most basic characteristics of the Australian community. 
I think it is pertinent to remind honourable senators of the efficiency of the Australian farmer. In the area of efficiency, he ranks among the most efficient and is probably the most efficient operator in the world. In the Australian context, less than 5 per cent of our people are involved in the actual farming operation. Yet, those people produce not only the total requirements in grain for the people of Australia but also they produce a very significant export abundance which runs to a minimum of 65 per cent of our total production. This production finds its way on to the world markets. As I say, less than 5 per cent of the people in the work force are engaged in that sort of exercise. Whilst it is not absolutely relevant to the discussion of these Bills, it is interesting to notice that in the Soviet Union, a country that produces a massive amount of wheat, 32 per cent of the population is engaged in producing wheat. Oft-times that country does not have sufficient wheat for its own consumption. I believe that that has some relevance in identifying the efficiency of the Australian farmer. 
Consequently, the Australian farmer certainly cannot afford to have a home consumption price that is not totally and absolutely referable to the cost situation. In his industry, only 35 per cent of the market is found within our shores. He has to export the remaining 65 per cent of the production at the best prices available on the world markets which certainly do not have any reference to the cost situation in the Australian scene. The Australian farmer is a hard worker. He is a man who has seen fit to involve himself, mostly through necessity and certainly at times just through sheer interest, in the research and development of appropriate machinery and cultivation research and development. This has been necessitated by the variable nature of the soils and the somewhat harsh climate of this country. He has to be versatile. He has to work long hours, often 12 to 18 hours a day when soil and moisture conditions are right and when the grain is ready to harvest. For the remainder of the time, he does not sit around and wait for things to grow. He is involved in stock husbandry and in the maintenance and development of Ins asset which is also an Australian asset, an asset whose maintenance and development contributes significantly to the national product of this country. 
I think it is important to recognise that the amount of money involved in this legislation is not by any means enormous. But the principle involved is extremely important because it is another item that should be related to the establishment of the home consumption price. As  Senator Gietzelt  told us before, the amount involved is 62c per tonne on home consumption wheat. The increase in price is a tiny amount when it is related to the present day cost of a loaf of bread. From memory, I think it represents 3/50ths of a cent per loaf. Yet it is interesting to note that the price of bread was increased on 1 
December last year by lc per loaf. We have been waiting for this legislation to be passed to increase the home consumption price to 62c per tonne. 
It is also worthy of note that this increase which is referable to the value of the farmers' or owner operators ' labour, is an increment which has to stand for a full year. Even that places a certain minimum value to the farmer - 
The new price is 62c a tonne which, taken over the whole farming community, represents approximately $50,000 a week. If we were to make a calculation based on the number of farmers, the amount of the increase would be something like 50c a week per farmer. That is not a very great contribution and it is unchanged over a full 12 months whereas the wages and salaries of employees in almost every other field seem to change almost every 3 months. It is pertinent that we should be mindful of the fact that the farmer, even under this legislation, still has to wait a full 12 months for any added increment which is referable to his own labour contribution. 
The farmer is by no means a fool. From time to time and in place to place it is sometimes suggested that he is. It is suggested that if someone makes a product a little cheaper, the farmer will use 3 times as much of it, just out of the sheer joy of using it. Of course, that is not applicable. On the contrary, far from being capable of making a farm labourer's contribution- that in itself is significant- the farmer has to be a businessman of some significance. He has to be in some measure a scientist and a whole number of other things. These days, he must be more than ever a mechanic of some real capacity. It would be quite silly not to point out that above all these things he has to be a philosopher because he has to contend with so many totally unknown quantities in his industry and his particular operation during the year. 
I wish to move on and briefly draw to the attention of honourable senators the significance of the wheat industry, particularly in the context of the last two or three years. We certainly should be mindful of the fact that if it had not been for the buoyant world wheat market in the last two or three years, the circumstances of the overall primary producing area of Australia today would be infinitely worse. In 1 974 we saw average costs in the industry rise by 34 per cent and prices overall, including the buoyant wheat price, fall by some 1 3 per cent. So it can be seen that the industry has been of great significance to the Australian economy, particularly to the primary industry economy and that part which is related closely to it, that wheat prices have been high. It has been significant because, as I said before, 65 per cent of the whole of the Australian crop has to find a market overseas. In the last two or three years it has produced an overseas credit earning of some $ 1 billion annually. 
It is essential, as I said earlier, that the home consumption price should truly reflect the current cost circumstance in the industry. The addition of this 62c per tonne relevant to the owneroperator's labour is another item in the establishment of that home consumption price. It is probably more important today than at any other time in the industry's history because of the recent escalation of the whole cost structure of the farming industry along with so many other industries. We have found in recent years a great spiralling in the cost of machinery, labour, freight, chemicals, superphosphate and practically everything involved in the farming industry. Indeed, these costs have risen so dramatically that probably the first payment in the next year will have to take cognisance of these matters and may have to attract some realistic increase. 
The industry is tremendously dependent on and liable to the vagaries of climate not only at home but also in the major producing countries. Climate variations in other producing countries are certainly relevant to the price and demand that we can expect for our product. Plant disease and pest control are other areas in which there is a large measure of variance in the wheat producing industry. The point I make is that because we are suffering largely from uncontrolled world market prices, any legislation that contributes to stability in the Australian wheat industry is important even though the amount it provides may be relatively small at the time. The principle is important. Insofar as the legislation contributes to stability in the farming industry it contributes to stability across a whole range of occupations, industries and commercial enterprises which are directly and indirectly relevant to the wheat industry. I think of the manufacturers of farm machinery, maintenance men, skilled mechanics and tradesmen, salesmen, superphosphate spreaders, carriers, the State railways which earn so much from freight, and so on across the board. In all these areas there is a relevance to the buoyancy or otherwise of the wheat industry. 
Also relevant is the involvement of the industry in scientific research by highly trained people. 
There are people in colleges, agricultural institutes and universities around the land who contribute tremendously to the Australian wheat industry. The buoyancy and stability of the industry are certainly preferable to the stability and buoyancy of the occupations that they fill in such a distinguished manner. For those and other reasons which time will not permit me to state, I am thankful that the Opposition adopts the attitude it has to this legislation, and I support it fully. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It is in some way related to an earlier question posed by  Senator Maunsell.  I want to highlight the question in another way. No doubt the Minister is aware that threats by tugboat crews and concern by wool buyers over a requested extension of credit time for them until the backlog of wool shipments is overcome again threaten the industry at home and abroad. Will the Minister ensure that immediate and all steps are being taken by the Minister he represents to avert a further crisis in this important section of the economy which, given certainty in the marketing and distribution of its products, appears to have a more buoyant future than it has had for some time? 
I rise to speak briefly on this matter of urgency that is before the Senate. Any matter that concerns a state of war or revolution, wherever it may be in the world, is certainly a matter of real urgency. I look at the points contained in the matter of urgency put forward by the Opposition and I read of the military action of Indonesia and its consequent effects upon the Timorese people; I read of the need for Indonesia to respond to decisions of the United Nations; I read of the denial of selfdetermination to the people of East Timor; and then I read the accusation of failure by the Australian Government in matters of communication and of providing humanitarian aid. It seems to me that those four points identify basically the Australian Government's attitude to the Timor situation. They are in fact the very areas in which this Government has sought to take real and active measures. They are areas that have been neglected over the past 2 years or more to the denigration of Australia in its relations with Timor. 
The Timorese have a number of things in common with us in Australia, and one of those things is that numerically they are a very small people. There are some 750 000 Timorese, and we must not forget that numerically Australia is but a small nation. In terms of the major nations in the region in which we live, we are numerically small. We have that situation in common with the Timorese. Australia owes a very considerable debt to Timor and a close association with it dating back to the days of World War II when their people and ours fought in extraordinarily difficult circumstances. Of course, in terms of defence there is a measure of commonality. For the Timorese a tiny island has the problem defencewise of restriction of room to move. On the other hand Australia, being vast, has the problem defencewise of extreme distance, with all the problems that brings in the defence of our continent. I highlight those areas of identity between us because there is every reason why we should have, and inded do have, a real measure of concern for our near neighbours who are some 300 miles from our northern shore. 
I want to make it perfectly clear that the position of the Government has been constant. It was constant when we were in Opposition and it has remained virtually unchanged. On the other hand, there seems to have been a change in the stance of the present Opposition since it has moved from government to opposition. It seems to me that the Opposition now is conscious of the things that we have been conscious of all along. Yet during its term of government it seemed to spend all of its time totally ignoring the circumstances of the Timorese and the Indonesian situation, which is so close to our northern shore. In fairness, one should say that  Senator Willesee,  when he was Minister for Foreign Affairs, took a different view of the Timorese situation. It was unfortunate for him, it was unfortunate for the then Government and it was unfortunate for Australia that  Mr Whitlam,  the then Prime Minister, apparently saw fit to override the considerations and attitudes of his Foreign Minister. 
The Portuguese were unable, and perhaps unwilling, to carry on their attempted government of this part of a small island from about September 1974, and Indonesian initiatives in regard to the island seemed to have been clearly established from that time. But in spite of the clarity of Indonesia's initiatives and objectives, no action was taken at that time by  Mr Whitlam,  the leader of the Australian Government. No effort was made to seek a moderation in the attitude of Indonesia towards the eastern portion of East Timor. As I understand it, the grounds for that lack of effort are rather interesting. It was the view of the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  that East Timor, being a tiny area with a relatively tiny community, was not an economically viable centre and, because of that, apparently it had no right to self-determination. There are innumerable island communities around the world which by general yardsticks could be adjudged to be economically non- viable. Yet surely those communities have a right to selfdetermination, and it is that right which concerns us today in the Senate. 
It has been suggested that the Government is hoping something will turn up. It is doing far more than that, but may I say that the previous Government, under the leadership of  Mr Whitlam,  stood aside from the realities that confronted us in East Timor in those days and just hoped that something would happen. Let me refer briefly to the attitude and actions of this Government since it came to power in December 1975. It has quite clearly and quite adamantly outlined its attitude to this extremely important area and to this extremely dangerous situation to our north. The Government has outlined 4 major points. It has insisted that in the first instance there should be a cessation of hostilities, for nothing concrete can occur until hostilities cease. The Government has insisted that there be a resumption of international humanitarian aid in Timor, and that too is of absolute necessity if we are not only to help the Timorese with their material problems but also to establish a clear picture of the circumstances existing in this distraught island. In the third place, the Government has insisted as a matter of urgent policy that there should be a withdrawal of Indonesian forces from the island of Timor and that circumstances should be established whereby a real measure of self-determination for the people of the island can be brought about. I can see no way in which that situation could be established effectively except through the intervention of the United Nations. 
I believe that those are clear and strong indications of the Australian Government's attitude to the Timor situation. Indeed, in that attitude we are not totally and absolutely supported by some of the people around the world whom one would assume would support that position which we have taken. Our position has been made abundantly clear at the United Nations, for we played a leading role in formulating the resolution that was put before and was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in December 1975. That particular resolution called, in the first place, for the withdrawal of Indonesian forces and, in the second place, for the restoration of the ceasefire to allow the Timorese an opportunity to determine their future. So those indications which, naturally, are similar to the guidelines that are observed by this Government were strongly promoted in the United Nations General Assembly by Australia last December. Again in April 1976 the Australian position was emphasised in the United Nations, that time to the Security Council, although at this time in history we are not a member of that Council. 
However, Australia did emphasise once again the necessity to have  Mr Winspeare  investigate the circumstances in East Timor. That would perhaps be the best form of communication that we could establish, namely, to have a man of his standing and of his connections move into the country and give to the rest of the world a real commentary on the circumstances, the problems and hopefully the solutions that would apply. The resolution of 14 April 1976 once again called for the withdrawal of troops and, indeed, a genuine act of self-determination. All of these matters, which were promoted by the Australian Government again, were incorporated in the Security Council resolution. So it is fairly farcical for anyone to say that we have not taken a strong, determined and clear-cut attitude in regard to the problems of Timor. We took a strong diplomatic position in Jakarta on 20 March this year when the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  spoke with his Indonesian counterpart and urged- and urged strongly- that the Indonesian forces should be withdrawn. He received what appeared to be a reasonable undertaking on the part of the Indonesians that they would withdraw those forces from the island. 
Australia has indeed contributed to the communication with Timor. It has made contributions of aid to the Timor circumstance, both to the refugees in Indonesian Timor and to Timorese refugees in Australia; so it should, and so it has done, and so it will do. There can be no advantage to the Timorese or to the Australians if there is a continuing deterioration in the relationships between Indonesia and Australia. In what sense that could help the people of Timor I fail to see. Certainly I can see no way in which that sort of circumstance- action that would lead to continuing and severe deterioration in our relations with Indonesia- could contribute to the solution of the problem in Timor. That, of course, is something which must be avoided in all circumstances- certainly in all foreseeable circumstancesbecause it is also worthy of note that in the context of the region in which we find ourselves Australia stands alone. It may well be that that is to our credit, but we do, nevertheless, stand alone in failing to support the Indonesian stance, the Indonesian story. In the region of the world in which we have to live and find our security and trade, which includes many significant nations such as Malaysia, the Philippines, Japan and so on, we alone seem to be taking the utmost steps to bring about at least some moderation in Indonesia's approach to an immense, a dreadful problem which we highlight in this chamber this afternoon. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Drake-Brockman)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I am mindful that  Senator Cotton  has a background which includes membership of the recent Senate committee which investigated estate duties. I refer to the clear undertakings in Victoria and New South Wales to ease the impact of estate duty by removing it from estates passing from the deceased spouse to the surviving spouse and in Queensland the foreshadowed abolition of this destructive tax. I ask: Will the Government in its Budget deliberations, pending the abolition of estate duty, consider that the removal of the duty should apply not only to the surviving spouse but ultimately to surviving children, and that the shadow of this severe tax, plus the uncertainty of expectation of life, puts any form of investment in industry and commerce in people 's later years at risk? Surely the need to stay liquid sterilises a lot of potential industrial investment? Finally, does not this second point provide a logical and cheap solution to some of the problems faced in returning to a real measure of economic buoyancy with the employment opportunities and security which come with it? 
I rise briefly to support this legislation, which fortunately receives the support of both sides of the chamber. The Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Amendment Bill and the Stevedoring Industry Charge BDI for 1976 constitute very simple legislation for they merely seek to extend the provisions that apply to this most important industry from the end of June this year to the. end of December this year. But although it does that, it does one other thing. It seeks in the first mentioned Bill to provide the authority for reimbursement of the Fremantle Port Authority for the employment of some 30 crane drivers and it gives authority to the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to reimburse those men who worked for that Authority and who have since become members of the Waterside Workers Federation and therefore to whom are relevant all those conditions and payments that are due to members of that particular Federation. 
Although this is certainly a relatively simple and non-controversial piece of legislation, I believe that the tragedy of the situation is apparent when we look back to 1967 when, as a result of  Mr Woodward's  investigations and recommendations a trial period in this industry which was to end on 30 June 1970, as I recall, was undertaken. The tragedy of the situation that confronts us today is that we are prolonging yet again that sort of trial situation. Here we are, 6 years after the finish of the initial 3-year trial period, still seeking desperately to find a solution to the many problems of the waterside industry in Australia. 
I want to make just a few comments referable to the urgency that must be attached to the next 6 months and particularly, perhaps, to the next 3 or 4 months- an urgency which is relevant to the establishment of legislation and of agreement between, in particular, the employers and the employees in the waterfront industry in order that this industry may settle into an efficient and progressive state. I suggest that this is one of the most fundamental, if not the most fundamental, industries in the context of the Australian economy. In a country such as Australia, the areas of import and export are directly referable to the circumstances that exist on the waterfront. We are an island country; consequently the costs that are established on the waterfront and the efficiency or lack of efficiency that exists there are relative to the standard of the whole crosssection of the Australian community. 
The urgency that confronts us is relevant to what I believe, regrettably, is a real measure of inefficiency in the history of the wharfside enterprise in Australia- an inefficiency which was indicated by  Senator Wright  when he spoke on this issue just a few moments ago, an inefficiency which is represented by an idle time commitment of from $8m to $ 13m annually, and an inefficiency which is represented by the somewhat paradoxical situation that the loading of wharfside cargo in Sydney takes three times as long as the unloading of the cargo by the somewhat more difficult method of lightering at Norfolk Island. These things are evidence of the inefficiencies which exist in this industry and which have to be overcome. There is a great measure of responsibility on government and employers and employees alike to come to a solution. 
Regrettably there has been a measure of malpractice in this area. I refer to the report of the Royal Commission of Inquiry into Alleged Payments to Maritime Unions. A recent description by the Commission referred to the: 
. grossly improper maritime union system of demanding payment from ships' agents under threat of bans. 
That is an area of malpractice to which surely, in the interests of the whole Australian people, some sort of real solution must be found, and it must be found in the very near future. The Commission went on to say that the system is contrary to the best interests of the Australian community, trade unions and their members generally and to particular unions and their members. Clearly there is an area of inefficiency, costliness and malpractice. They are all inter-related. We must come to grips with the problem quickly and solve it this time in a permanent way. 
We have been in this temporary circumstance, as has been said before, for some 9 to 10 years. The urgency of the waterfront situation is related surely to Australia's dependence on trade and international relations. This country, because of the excessive cost and expenditure on the waterfront and in the waterfront industry, is rapidly becoming an unattractive country. It is becoming unattractive from the point of view of both the importer and the exporter. The importer, faced with enormous and spiralling costs, finds that when these costs are carried forward the goods in Australia are excessively expensive. This of itself is serious enough; but it is even more serious when one considers that the level that is established as a consequence of the waterside or import situation sets unnaturally high levels of price for the products which are competitive and which are manufactured in this country. Of course, the cost at the waterside is particularly relevant to the export industry in Australia. The export industry covers the vast range of the traditional primary industries- meat, wheat, grain, dairy produce, wool and so on, together with the minerals industry. Insofar as the freight costs are bearing heavily on the products of these industries, they are threatening the survival and development of our whole economy; they are threatening the whole Australian community. We can never forget that in this country in those areas our industries are dependent- to an extent between 65 per cent and 95 per cent- on their markets overseas. 
I suggest that the extreme cost of the waterfront exercise in Australia, when looked at as being relevant to the import and export circumstances in this country, means that at long last steps have to be taken and results have to be seen if we are to survive as a community. I am sure that people are aware of the problems of waterside labour, and there is a proper measure of sympathy for the problems in that area. Nevertheless, other industries face problems of a temporary and casual nature from time to time, and in general overcome them. I am sure that these problems in the stevedoring industry can and must be overcome. 
I do not believe it is necessary to canvass the ground that already has been covered effectively by those who have spoken in this debate. The history of the industry was referred to by  Senator Wright.  I believe that the Commonwealth's statutory role in the industry goes back to about 1928. It seems to me to be regrettable that it took a wartime situation for the 1942 National Security Regulations to be invoked in order to arrive at some sort of real efficiency in an urgent circumstance in this industry. From that point on we have seen the establishment of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority in 1956, the investigations of 1965 to 1967 and the establishment in 1967 of the trial period to which I referred. That trial is a continuing circumstance, and it is hoped that the legislation that is before us today, providing a continuance of the trial period, will be the last that is necessary. It has to be admitted that there are problems in this industry, relative to technological change and to the safety and security measures mentioned by  Senator Mulvihill,  which have tended to increase or to prolong the necessity for the trial period. I am sure that there has been sufficient time for the industry now to come down with real measures to establish a program which will see the industry work effectively on behalf of all Australians from this point on. 

 Mr Clyde Cameron, when Minister for Labor and Immigration in the Whitlam Government, looked at the possibility of nationalisation in this industry, but he did not proceed along that course. It was his successor,  Senator James  McClelland, who asked  Mr Northrop  to bring down a report on the problems confronting the stevedoring industry. That report is one which  Senator Harradine,  I believe quite rightly, considers should be looked at at length and in depth. Most of us who have been involved in the problems of the stevedoring industry are aware of the findings of the Northrop report which are significantly related to the inflexibility of the labour force on the waterfront. This in turn is related to redundancy and is an area in which we must seek a proper and real solution. The Northrop recommendations are related to the problem of mobility and transferability of labour on the waterfront. In this regard I think  Senator Wright  highlighted the circumstance that occurs from time to time when in the same report one stevedoring company can be short of 1000 men and another can have 1500 men too many. Yet there is no provision which enables the sort of transferability or mobility which would in large measure overcome that problem. 
In respect of restrictive practices,  Mr Northrop,  Q.C., referred to the equalisation of earnings and idle time in a port. He recommended that the funding of the industry be on a tonnage and not a man hour basis. He referred to the existence of an excessive number of strikes and unuathorised stoppages and the lack of proper dispute settling procedures. These are the problems which have been highlighted by that investigation. They are the problems that can be solved only by a realistic approach by employers and employees in this industry having a view to the extreme measure of responsibility that the industry must assume because of its basic significance to the whole Australian economy. The proposals in the Bills that confront us are simply that the temporary legislation shall be extended to 3 1 December and that the operations of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority and the Stevedoring Industry Council also be extended to that date; that in that period the employers and the Waterside Workers Federation should submit solutions to the well-canvassed and clearly understood problems of this industry; and that the charge is to be extended and to remain unaltered. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to the 4 major considerations that were highlighted by  Mr Northrop.  In the first place he suggested to the industry, to all those concerned and to the Government, that it could well be that the situation should go on as it is but this is considered on all sides to be totally unacceptable and a hopeless situation. Secondly, there is the question that the industry be nationalised. The problems here are many. Of course, there is the philosophic problem which relates to nationalising anything and when we look around the world at the evidence to support the nationalisation of industries, and I think of the British steel industry which is losing something like stg9m a week and of nationalised health services in many countries, there does not seem to be much support for the suggestion that nationalisation of itself will be any solution in this area. Thirdly, there is the suggestion that there should be a third authority which shall engage and hire out labour to the various stevedoring companies. Again this would appear to be introducing a third party into a situation where a third party is totally unnecessary. Finally, there is the suggestion that the Government should in large measure opt out of the problems of this industry and leave it to the constructive efforts of those directly involved to establish solutions. I believe that in this fourth option there is the greatest hope for a permanent and responsible solution to the stevedoring industry problems in this country. 
In closing I want to submit the need for all those people involved to recognise that one of the major concerns must surely be community interest. In the solution of the problems of this industry the public interest must be in the forefront of matters considered. There has to be a provision which will enable a flexible work force and a situation in which unions, whatever unions they be, are not able to take a position whereby they can pick off individuals, as employers or shipping companies. This sort of thing must be avoided if a measure of permanence and responsibility is to enter into the stevedoring industry, an industry which is absolutely basic to both the import and export sections of this great economy. Imports and exports are of much greater significance in the Australian scene than they are probably in any other developed economy in the world. I have pleasure in supporting the extension of these temporary measures and I hope sincerely that the 6 months extension will see the solution that is so badly needed. 
I rise to support the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill which is before the chamber this afternoon. I am somewhat disappointed to know that  Senator Button  and his Party intend to oppose some significant areas of the Bill because it seems to me to be a particularly responsible piece of legislation- a piece of legislation that has within it quite a marked measure of flexibility. In the consideration of any conciliation and arbitration legislation there has to be a great measure of concern, for it is probably one of the most, if not the most, complex areas of government. It is probably one of the most complex areas of relationship between government and employer and employee. Consequently it deserves and must receive from time to time an absolute maximum of sensible and responsible consideration. 
It is my view that the Bill that is before this chamber does give evidence of a great measure of responsibility. It gives evidence of a great measure of discussion that has already taken place between the Government, the employers and the unions in these matters. 
Yes. One of the indications of the flexibility and the responsibility of this legislation is that those discussions are, in fact, continuing with the support of all parties involved. The purpose of this legislation is at least four-fold. In the first place its purpose is to give government the opportunity to express a view as to whether there should be an appeal or reference to a full bench of the Australian Industrial Court in the public interests. It seems to me extraordinary that  Senator Button  should object to this. I cannot imagine a more sensible or a more important circumstance to be considered by any court or by any commission than that of the public interest. Whatever part of a community or economy one belongs to, the public interest must be more significant than any single or individual part of the community or the economy. 
Consequently an objection to having the right to express in those places the concern of the public interest seems extremely hard to follow. There are many occasions on which the decisions of lesser tribunals may indeed prove to have significant flow-on or leap-frogging effects throughout the industrial area of our economy. Indeed, in that circumstance they may well establish pace setter conditions. It would seem to me to be important, indeed imperative, that a government as the ultimate organiser and co-ordinator of an economy should have the right, indeed the obligation, to seek that any results and any recommendations of these tribunals, where considered necessary, should be referred to the full bench. That really is all that the Government seeks in this particular part of the legislation that confronts us. 

 Senator Button seemed to think that matters of inflation and employment were matters that were considered anyway by the Commission and by the courts involved. Of course, there is nothing at all to stop those organisations from considering matters of employment, matters related to inflation and the general circumstances of an economy. But what this legislation seeks to do, I suggest, is merely to emphasise the necessity of those organisations- those courts and commissionstaking into account a whole range of areas that relate to employment, inflation and other circumstances in the total economy of this country. 
This legislation is in no way making any reflection on the capacity of the commission concerned. I believe that it is merely adding a proper measure of emphasis. It is merely seeking to ensure that the parties that finally come down with decisions and make deliberations have had every opportunity to be fully aware of all the relevant facts. Surely the Government, as an elected legislator, has the right, and indeed, as I believe I said before, the obligation, to present on behalf of the people in the public interest all those attitudes and all those matters that are relevant to the state of the economy, which surely has to be taken into account in the final deliberations of these particular commissions or courts. 
Clause 6 of this amending Bill is the clause which widens the provision for the full bench to take account of likely effects on the levels of employment and inflation. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that that is not a new concept. As long ago as 1953 the then Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia made the following observation in the railway case of that year.  Sir Owen  Dixon said: 
While an arbitral tribunal deriving its authority under an exercise of the legislative power given by section 51 . . . must confine itself to conciliation and arbitration for the settlement of industrial disputes including what is incidental thereto and cannot have in its hands the general control or direction of industrial, social or economic policies, it would be absurd to suppose that it was to proceed blindly in its work of industrial arbitration and ignore the industrial, social and economic consequences of what it was invited to do or what, subject to the power of variation, it had actually done. 
I quote those words of the late  Sir Owen  Dixon merely to indicate that back in 1953 there was an awareness by an eminent man of the law of the necessity for a court to involve itself with the social and economic consequences of the judgments that it made. 
Again, I emphasise that the basic purpose of this legislation is to improve and to increase the emphasis that must lie on the public interest and on the representation to the deliberating commissions of the effect of certain actions on the economic and social order in which we live. Today probably more than at any other time we recognise the social contract as being of immense importance in industrial relations. If that is to be the case and if we are to succeed in that area in Australia, then we have to be sure that the law under which we operate, the legislation we pass, is such that it will enable those who deliberate on matters of social contracts to be aware of the reaction across the board, across the whole canvas of activity, of the things which they bring down and of the regulations they make. It is of extreme importance, particularly in those circumstances, that matters relating to employment and inflation in the economy should be matters of which a court takes considerable notice in arriving at its decisions. I suggest that, in the long term, the capacity of this Government or of any government to operate in the enormously important areas of defence, social security, education or local government, across the whole canvas, is directly related to its capacity to control inflation. It is with that view in mind that this legislation places such emphasis on the necessity to promote matters relevant to the economy, in this case matters relevant to employment and inflation. 
I was somewhat surprised that  Senator Button  opposed the concept of the secret postal ballot, which is the next area of involvement in this legislation. It seems to me that the great majority of Australians, indeed the great majority of the rank and file members of the Australian trade union movement, are concerned in real measure that they should have the opportunity to elect by a secret postal ballot those who represent them. I believe it is essential that they should have the opportunity, unpressured, to arrive at decisions which ultimately bring forward their representatives in the various organisations and in negotiations with governments. Under this legislation there is a choice in relation to the ballot system. Ballots may be controlled by the Commonwealth Electoral Office, in which case there would be no charge on the unions. In itself, that must hold within it a measure of attraction because, so far as I can ascertain, the conduct of union elections is an extraordinarily expensive exercise. I understand that last year the Australian Railways Union conducted a ballot at a charge to itself- in other words, to its members- of some $40,000-odd, and of course that union is not one of the really big unions. 
This Bill contains a provision that secret ballot elections may be conducted within the structure ofthe union, and I believe that that is a sensible and important provision. Within certain guidelines, it is probably quite unnecessary for us to prescribe or attempt to prescribe the actual structure of a trade union. The immensely important thing, and I belie ve that this is the aim of the legislation, is to ensure that all members of a union are able, through whatever structure they may choose as a majority within the union, to express their attitude to the various people who nominate themselves to be their representatives. It is important that they are able to express that attitude in a totally unpressured way. That is the objective of this legislation, and I believe it is an objective which is fundamentally desired by the great mass of Australians, certainly by the great mass of Australian unionists. In this context, I refer to clause 1 3 of the Bill, which provides for a new section 133aa. Sub-section (3) of the new section states in part, and I believe this is significant:   the Industrial Registrar may, . . . exempt the organisation, in respect of an election, from the application of this section if he is satisfied that the conduct of the election in accordance with those rules- 
is likely to result in a fuller participation by members of the organisation in the ballot than would result from a postal ballot; and 
will afford to members entitled to vote an adequate opportunity of voting without intimidation. 
I cannot see why there should be any real or sensible objection to that sort of provision. I understand that in some unions and in some circumstances that as much as 90 per cent to 95 per cent of union membership can be found in three or four specific areas. 
-I thank the honourable senator for mentioning the collegiate system. I will refer briefly to that later. The concentration of union membership in those three or four specific areas would enable a vote to be taken quite simply, and probably without the implementation of the postal ballot. Nevertheless, even in that situation, 5 per cent or 10 per cent or indeed all the unionists involved naturally would have the freedom to apply for a postal ballot and use it in that manner. 
The farmers' organisations arrive at their own structure and it is that sort of structure which is important in the context of the trade union movement. 
-No, I do not agree with that. The point I was making is that the legislation which confronts us is aimed at perfectly reasonable and proper objectives and has a real measure of flexibility which indicates a responsible attitude of the Government. As  Senator Cavanagh  remarked a short while ago, we are concerned with further and continuing talks between employers, employees and government. That is as it should be because I do not believe that we will find a solution of permanency to any problem unless it is the result of compromise. This legislation will lead to the greater possibility, perhaps even the probability, of responsible compromise in this field of industrial relations which, as I said when I started to speak this afternoon, is probably more basic to the Australian economy and consequently to the whole of Australian society than any other single matter. 
It is important to emphasise, as evidence of the confidence and determination of the Government and of the honesty of its endeavours, the implementation at this early stage of total tax indexation. Referable as it is to the value of real wages and salaries it is an indication of the determination that no stone will be left unturned in an attempt to bring about industrial relations which will enable our total community to realise its real potention. It is the objective of this legislation to make sure that there is no rigid dictatorial view of union operations. The purpose of the legislation surely is to establish a situation in which the rank and file unionist wherever he may be can vote according to his conscience without pressure of any kind from groups within or without. 
-This is the objective of this legislation.  Senator Mcintosh  says that we do that now. However, I recently noticed that the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union in electing its executive had 2 per cent of its membership vote. I am not sure that that would be as the total membership would have desired but that is the circumstance. It does not seem to me or to the great mass of Australian unionists or Australians in general that a representative elected by 2 per cent of the people is necessarily a satisfactory representative. There was brief mention of the collegiate system. It again is evidence of the determination of this Government to seek an ultimate and responsible solution to the industrial relations problem that there is to be further consultation on the collegiate system. It may well be that in certain circumstances referable to the far flung membership of unions the operation of a collegiate system on a regional or State basis would succeed in giving truer representation across the board. I refer to the statement of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in regard to the collegiate system when he said that the Government accepts in principle a form of collegiate voting, but the system adopted must be consistent with its policy of the fullest participation by members.' I do not believe that there can be an objection to that sort of view. It is merely stating in so many words that unions must find a way of achieving for their total membership the right actively to elect their executives. The structure of their union and the manner in which they do this within the postal voting system is certainly their own business. 
I draw my remarks to a close by mentioning a couple of items that are covered by this legislation. They are 2 items on which I can be brief because they are items of which  Senator Button  has indicated he approves. In the first place there is the recommendation that a period of 4 years should be the period for which executive members are elected. This of itself is purely and simply a compromise and therefore may well have a measure of permanency about it. Secondly, the  President  of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is to have the status of a judge and this,  Senator Button  also agrees, is a proper and reasonable provision. It will entail the election of one more judge to the panel and will create the proper status of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. I believe that the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill is one that exhibits a great measure of flexibility and the great determination of the Government to come to terms with industrial problems by talking them over and by compromise with unionists. It is only by compromise, which is the essence of this legislation, that we shall succeed in establishing an industrial climate which will enable this community to climb out ofthe trough into which it has fallen. 
I address a question to the Minister for Social Security. There is a view that the Child Care Act 1972 does not adequately meet all the needs for early childhood services in Australia. Will the Minister indicate whether new legislation may be brought down to replace those parts of the Children's Commission Act relating to children's services in this country? 
While supporting this motion of condolence in respect of the 4 men concerned, I should like to take the opportunity of saying just a few words about the late  Senator Bull.  He and his family were friends of mine. It was a personal connection which led to  Senator Bull  being one of those who escorted me- I guess that is the word- into this chamber when I was first admitted in 1970. To me, as a freshman in this Parliament,  Senator Bull  was the essence of kindness and generosity. I am sure he offered that kindness and generosity to all people. That was a measure of the greatness of the man. There are a great number of measures of the greatness of Tom Bull. I do not propose to enter upon the total list because I know that the late  Senator Bull  certainly would not have wanted a series of long discussions and tributes to him. That was not of his character. But let me mention just two or three things that occur to me as being relevant to the measure of the greatness of Tom Bull. 
In the first place, I believe, he was significant because he had a very real understanding and commitment to the family unit as the basic unit of our society. Anyone who knew Tom Bull knew the strength of his convictions and his concern for the welfare of his family and, indeed, of all families in our community. He was a leader in very many fields in his community, as exhibited by the statements today in this chamber. He was certainly a leader in the area of traditional primary production which he knew so well, a leader of all those people involved in primary production and its subsidiary areas. 
Tom Bull revealed greatness as a parliamentarian. He achieved the positions of  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy President  of the Senate. He exhibited, as a parliamentarian, great measures of tolerance, understanding, determination and sincerity. Finally,  Mr President,  I believe that perhaps the greatest measure of this man was that he was above all things a humble man. It is with that thought in mind that I add my tribute to the tributes paid here this afternoon. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce and refers to the concern expressed last week by  Senator Sibraa  in relation to the failure to construct laterals from the natural gas pipeline to Lithgow, Orange and Bathurst in New South Wales. I ask the Minister: Did not the New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government advise the Australian Gas Light Company prior to November 1972 that it would not grant a licence to construct and operate the main pipeline to Sydney unless laterals were constructed at the same time as the main line and gas was marketed at a uniform rate throughout the State? Did not  Mr Connor,  in establishing the Pipeline Authority, remove the project from the control of the New South Wales Government and provide for the construction of laterals at a suitable time instead of at the same time? Is that not the reason why the country centres concerned are today without supply and why decentralisation and development projects of the New South Wales Liberal-Country Party Government, like Albaware Tiles and Pottery Pty Ltd at Lithgow, suffer the cost of importing liquefied petroleum gas from Victoria? Did not the Labor Government's involvement in the Pipeline Authority delay the whole natural gas supply project by over 12 months and greatly escalate the cost? 
-I rise to oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition and to support the Budget Papers that are before us this afternoon. I want to make some general comments on the Budget, but before I do so perhaps I should refer to one or two of the things that  Senator Walsh  has said in the last half hour or so. As is always the case,  Senator Walsh  chooses to vent his spleen upon the National Country Party in this chamber and today has been no exception. I suppose that he could pay us no greater compliment than to do just that. But today he has included with us- and I appreciate this-no less a person than the Australian Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  We certainly have no problem or worry in being associated with  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. 

 Senator Walsh said so many things that I certainly do not want to canvass them all. I do recall his referring to a possible decline of some 27 per cent in farm returns. Naturally every Australian would hope that this does not occur, but virtually every Australian, perhaps with the exception of  Senator Walsh,  would realise that the problems that confront the traditional primary producing area in the Australian economy today are related quite directly to several things. In the first place they are related to the extraordinary climatic circumstances in which the southern half of this country finds itself in one of the worst drought conditions of its history, a circumstance that no legislation can really overcome. It also finds itself as an industry in a severe corner because of the market situation, in the meat industry in particular and also in the dairying industry and fruitgrowing industry. These again are areas where governments have to be flexible. They have to look at the situation. They have to discuss with the industry the ways in which these areas can overcome what we believe will be virtually temporary circumstances. 
Far above all these matters the problems that confront the Australian primary producing sector are related to a creation of the socialist government of the previous 3 years: They are closely related to the extraordinary measure of inflation that has grown from within our economy in its years of socialist experiment. It is severe indeed in the Australian scene because primary industry is, to a degree that varies from 65 per cent to 95 per cent, dependent upon world markets, a circumstance in which it is totally incapable of relating its cost structure to market prices. 

 Senator Walsh suggested further that during the period of the Labor Government the farming community had a pretty good time. He quoted some fascinating figures. The thing that fascinates me, however, is that after those 3 luxurious years the Australian Labor Party was unable to gain even one seat in rural Australia. I certainly do not disregard the intelligence of the people who live in and operate rural Australia. They have an intelligence, a capacity and an efficiency which place Australian primary industry probably above any counterpart in the world. 
May I make a few general remarks referable to the Budget with which we are dealing this afternoon. In the first place, contrary to suggestions that have come from the Opposition, this Budget has had a very good response from most responsible critics. I believe it set out to establish a situation in which the inflationary problems of the last 3 years can be attacked and overcome in the relatively short term. That is the prime objective of the current Australian Government, and it is right that it should be. It is quite remarkable that so many constructive measures are capable of being tackled in the circumstances in which we find ourselves today. I will refer in greater detail in the course of my speech to such things as the implementation of personal income tax indexation, a measure which will cost the Treasury a very significant amount of money- some $1 billion in a year. It is a really constructive attempt to reduce the strain on our economy of ever increasing wages and salaries, and undoubtedly that has been the basic cause of the inflation which has troubled us for the last 3 years. 
This Government, which quite rightly is concerned with development and reform, has seen fit to make the most wide-sweeping changes to family endowment that have occurred in the history of this country. Legislation being introduced is directed towards establishing a great measure of benefit for some 300 000 families and almost one million children. The old income tax deductibility allowance has disappeared and in its place is a direct endowment payment of very considerable proportions. That can be seen only as something which will further secure the family unit in the Australian scene. 
The Budget before us and the legislation which is contemplated seek to place extra emphasis- real and proper emphasis- on the development of the private sector, not in any real measure at the expense of, but along with, a reasonable maintenance of the public sector. After ail, the private sector is a traditional area in a free enterprise democracy, and that is what Australia has been throughout its history. The private sector is the area m which real employment is found and in which real production of goods and services occurs. I believe it was the dramatic move away from an emphasis on and support for that sector- which incidentally employs 72 per cent or 73 per cent of Australian workers- which has been one of the dominant factors over the last 3 years in bringing about the economic and social problems that confront us today. 
It is remarkable that in this Budget the Government could set about making constructive attempts to control inflation and consequently bring employment back to its proper level. Despite the economic circumstances, the Government has still been able to reduce the deficit in this land very significantly. Notwithstanding what  Senator Walsh  has said, a deficit is of considerable importance because it has to be financed eventually. It cannot be allowed to continue to grow, as it has grown in the last 3 years, from a matter of millions of dollars to a matter of thousands of millions of dollars. A deficit has to be met. If we are not able to increase confidence and employment and productivity, a deficit can be met only by large scale and often expensive borrowing or by the printing of treasury notes. Only 12 months ago the former Labor Government printed treasury notes to the extent of $ 1,700m, I think it was, in order to keep the deficit as low or as high- depending on the view one took- as it had been. That son of approach to financing deficits can only be, has been and always will be totally inflationary. 
I have indicated that the Government's first priority- a priority it undertook when it sought office at the election in December 1975- is to come to grips with, to steady and finally to reduce inflation in this land. Having reduced inflation, what will follow? Unemployment will improve immediately and confidence will return to the total economy, to the total society. With a reduction of inflation, those things will follow naturally. We have seen it happen. It is happening today all round the world- in America, in Japan, in West Germany and soon across the developed Western world. Naturally and responsibly, inflation is the prime target of this Government, and it is the prime objective of the Budget which confronts us. 
Regrettably perhaps, it is necessary to recall the legacy inherited by this Government when it came to office only 8 or 9 months ago. It was a legacy of 3 years of socialist experiment- I think that is a useful description of those 3 years. In December 1975 that legacy showed that some 330 000 people were unemployed and inflation, which had reached a peak of about 1 8 per cent, stood at the significant level of 14 per cent. That was the legacy this Government inherited in December 1975, and it contrasts markedly with the legacy of 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government prior to December 1972. If I recall correctly, at that time inflation stood at approximately 4.2 per cent, and unemployment at 1.6 percent as opposed to the December 1975 figure of 5.6 per cent. By March 1973, only 3 months after  Mr Whitlam  came to power, unemployment was down to 1.4 per cent as a result of the working of the 1 972 Budget. 
Why did those things occur? I believe it is abundantly clear today to most Australians that they occurred because the Labor Government when it came to office was in an enormous rush to change abruptly the course of this country. The Labor Government was in an extraordinary rush to implement an ideology, regardless of the socio-economic consequences on the millions of Australians who elected it. That was the tragedy, and it was exemplified by the immediate transfer of virtually all emphasis from the private to the public sector, and a significant withering of the private sector quickly followed. This Was revealed in the attitude of government. We believe that government has to be regarded as the basic security agent for people against exploitation whether it be of man or materials, yet  Mr Whitlam  's clear indication of his idea and the Labor Party's idea of the role of government was such that it was to be not only the owner but also the director of man and materials. This was the alternative that finally confronted the Australian people after 3 years of this sort of experiment. I suggest that the answer from the Australian people came through very clearly and very strongly in December 1975 when they threw out the socialist experiment of previous years. 
Before I examine some of the features of this Budget and lend to them perhaps a measure of applause, and in some cases perhaps a measure of constructive criticism, at the risk of being accused of being an idealist and certainly at the risk of being accused of speaking with a measure of despair, let me say that we can recover from the circumstances to which this country economically and socially has fallen only if there is a realistic recognition of the situation by all people, by government, by the rank and file of trade unionists and by employers. A constructive and realistic approach is the only way in which we can recover from the problems that beset us. I would hope that having discarded so clearly the socialist experiment of the last 3 years- a socialist experiment which, judged on any grounds at all, has proved to be a significant failure- we will by co-operation be prepared to set about the task now, using and implementing the legislation, the processes and the program of this Budget, of realising and achieving the enormous potential of this country- an enormous potential to secure affluence for its people; an enormous potential to make this country one of the really great trading countries of the world, and an enormous potential to make this nation of a nature and character whereby it can be a leader amongst the developing countries in its own region and beyond. If we are to do that- I am sure we can do it- it will only be by constructive recognition of the need for cooperation. The other course- the course of constant opposition for the sake of opposition- can only lead us through chaos to dictatorship. It can only lead us through chaos to a circumstance in which we may find ourselves in a dictatorship, and whether it be of the left or the right is of no significance. Dictatorship in general is totally objectionable to the Australian view, to Australian history and to Australian intelligence. Even the oft vaunted phrase of the dictatorship of the proletariat really means nothing except the dictatorship of yet another hierarchy. 
I was interested a few nights ago to hear on television an interview with an American. The American was asked, among a number of questions, what he thought would happen if the presidential election in his country saw a move from Republican dominance to Democratic dominance. I must say that I was somewhat envious of him in his reply, envious of what I regard as a real measure of democratic maturity because the answer was that there will be no dramatic switch; there will be no enormous change. There will be change indeed but it will be gradual. It will be in fact evolutionary and it will be based on compromise, on intelligent discussion and consequently it will have about it a real measure of permanence. I must say that as an Australian I felt a real measure of envy that that was the circumstance because I believe that the survival of this country, related as it may well be to the implementation of the policies of this Budget, depends in the long run on closing and not widening the gap between the major political entities in Australia. I think that as responsible adult people we should look at this with a very serious view indeed. No matter what circumstances we or any other nation finds itself in there will always be an employer-employee relationship and it behoves us to ensure that intelligence and maturity gain the day in this somewhat desperate circumstance into which Australia has recently been thrown. 
The ball is in our court. It is in the court of all Australians and it would be hoped that Australians are prepared to recognise the measure of interdependence and the high degree of integration that is typical of this community. If we recognise those things, if we get away from constant criticism for the sake of criticism, if we show some really constructive criticism and if we show a real measure of co-operation then there will once again be a reward for initiative and this country will ride on the sort of wave on which it and all its people should ride. 
The people made a very clear decision only a few months ago and I think that decision was preferable to the alternatives I have been talking about. That is the most significant thing that all Australians ought to concern themselves with in the near and immediate future. 
May I just make a few general comments on what has been and what is proposed to be achieved by this Budget. I have mentioned personal income tax indexation. It is a very significant contribution. Not only does it represent a loss of revenue of one billion dollars a year; it also seeks to create for people in Australia a real increase in wages of perhaps $5, $6 or $8 a week. In education we see a circumstance in which, in spite of the fairly tight guidelines in which we find ourselves as an economy, the actual expenditure is up by 1 5.3 per cent and we are returning to triennial funding. In the social security area there is again a significant increase to a mammoth percentage of total income- 25 per cent as against 23 per cent last year. In terms of the personal income tax this expenditure represents 56 per cent of the total collection. That is a significant amount of money to be spent, and spent intelligently, on social security. In defence we have increased our expenditure by some 18 per cent on last year's expenditure. I will refer later to some of the increased expenditure in various areas of primary industry. As has been amply clarified in this chamber on a number of occasions by  Senator Carrick,  moneys that go to State and local government are significantly greater than they have been in past years. In these circumstances I believe it is quite remarkable that these sorts of constructive matters could be seriously adopted by this Government and at the same time reduce a deficit to $2.6 billion. I was fascinated when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  the other night referred to the Hayden Budget. He suggested that the Hayden Budget was a fine document. It is rather extraordinary that the Hayden Budget which anticipated a deficit of $2.8 billion was confronted with a probable deficit of $5 billion when we came to office in December 1975. 
I make a general comment on 2 areas of human behaviour. I suppose they are 2 elements of immense importance to a society- wages and profits. I just make these comments in passing. It is intensely important that we recognise that the only wage increase that is of real value is the wage increase that enables the wage earner or the salary earner to purchase more of what he or she chooses to purchase with his or her income. That is the circumstance that has to be achieved and that is the circumstance that has been remarkably lacking in the economic and social history of this country over the last 3 years. We hear a lot from time to time about the revival of consumption expenditure and no doubt the ultimate revival of this economy is dependent both on investment and consumer expenditure. It is significant to recall that in 1974 when wages rose in money terms by 16 per cent the increase in consumer expenditure was 1 per cent. There must be an enormous importance relating to confidence if we are in fact to get a rise in productivity and a rise in real wages. Profits seems to be an abused concept, but profits are absolutely essential. Reasonable stability and a reasonable prospect of profit is essential if this economy or any other economy is to develop, is to grow and is to provide goods and services that of themselves provide employment across the nation. 
The Budget for 1976-77 outlays a sum of some $24.3 billion dollars. The amount is up 1 1.3 per cent on the previous year. This compares with 23 per cent the previous year and a massive 46 per cent the year before that. I believe that that in itself is an indication that we are seriously on the track to controlling and significantly lessening the inflationary problem that has confronted this country in the past 3 years. These outlays are in a number of areas. I have mentioned the enormous gain to the family unit by the new scheme of endowment payments to mothers. I have mentioned the extraordinary percentage of money involved in the social security area. It is not really surprising that we should be significantly concerned in areas of social security and national health. I believe that it was our side of politics that introduced child endowment payments. It was in the days of  Sir Earle  Page back in the 1930s that Australia first involved itself with a national health scheme. These attitudes, these priorities, are in no way unusual. Indeed they are typical of the political philosophy and determination of the Liberal and National Country parties. 
I refer in the social security field, as I pass on, to significant increases in the area of handicapped people. New projects are being provided for by the allocation of $3m this year, by an extra $10m the following year and by $20m the year after, making a total payment over the period of some $12 lm. Payments to handicapped children have increased likewise from $10 to $15 a week and payments for allowances applicable to children in institutions have increased from $3.50 to $5 a day. In the area of overseas aid, which is an area of great involvement and great importance, we have again in the stringent circumstancesand I mark the words 'stringent circumstances'been able to increase the percentage of the Budget in that area by some 14.6 per cent. I am pleased to say that of that significant amount of $400m by far the greatest recipient is our close neighbour and friend, Papua New Guinea, which received no less than $228m in overseas aid from the Australian Government in this current financial year. 
Defence expenditure is up 1 8 per cent, but that is just a start of a 5-year program in which we believe there will be a most significant increase in the morale and capacity of the Australian soldier, sailor and airman and indeed a significant increase in the mobility and fire power of our defensive equipment so that we can have and promote a realistic defence of this continent which of itself will create a measure of confidence among our friends and allies, a measure of confidence which we sadly need. Some areas of primary industry are of great concern. I have already touched on these matters. Many of the problems faced are related to inflated costs, extraordinarily severe climatic circumstances and to markets around the world. We are providing for the struggling beef industry- I hope that it is struggling in the relatively short term only- $ 15m of carry-on finance which will be matched by the States. In this area there always has been and always will be a real measure of flexibility, a real determination by governments of our philosophy to talk to the people of the industry, to discuss the problems and to solve them in a proper, sensible and adult manner. 
The fertiliser bounty has been criticised by various people, but I think that in passing not only should I remark that the restoration of the superphosphate bounty was a recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission but also I think it is most pertinent to remark that today the bounty represents a subsidy of a mere 19 per cent whereas only two or three years ago, prior to the escalation of the prices of superphosphate, it represented 45 per cent. So, although the bounty has been restored, in percentage terms and in the extraordinarily severe circumstances of today its value is less than it was a few years ago. The Government has determined to continue until the end of this year the rural reconstruction schemes that prevail pending the report of the Industries Assistance Commission. 1 move briefly from discussing fertilisers to the wool industry. Let me comment on one or two features which I believe should be highlighted. The Australian wool industry has been helped by our Government and our parties since the extremely serious days of 1970 when there was near disaster in the whole wool industry in Australia. It was at that time- November 1970 from memory- that the Liberal-Country Party Government instituted the Australian Wool Commission, the forerunner of the Australian Wool Corporation, which paved the way for the developments in marketing that are now bearing the fruits which the industry believed and hoped that they would. The constructive attitude of this Government to our great wool industry as demonstrated when the Government determined that the basic price should be raised to 275c a kilogram from 250c a kilogram or raised to an average of 234c a kilogram should be reiterated time and again. Not only did the Government decide to make that basic raise but also it has continued to implement a flexible reserve price. It has made that base price relative to the next 2 years. This is perhaps the most significant contribution to stability and development that the wool industry could hope to have. In the last few years there have been - 
I do not recall ignoring any significant assistance. I have merely outlined what has happened to the industry in Australia. That the Labor Government was able to accept the recommendations is to its credit, if that is what  Senator Gietzelt  wants me to say. 
-If that is what  Senator Gietzelt  wants me to say I will say it, but it was not to his Party's credit that it floated, for instance, that the price should be reduced to 200c a kilogram in May last year. 
-It became 250c. The period during which the Wool Corporation has been in operation has seen the provision of objective clip preparation which is of great significance to the producer, the manufacturer and ultimately the retailer. It has seen the implementation of areas of research that are proving productive in all aspects of the wool industry, an industry, I might add, in which Australia provides the most wool and the best wool in the world. Consequently, the total balance of Australia's primary industries is in no small way measured against the stability and development of that particular industry. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted, debate adjourned. 
When the effluxion of time halted my remarks some days ago I was supporting the Budget papers on various grounds because I believe they provide a sensible program aimed at restoring to this sadly troubled economy a proper measure of balance between the public and the private sectors. I was indicating that this Budget sought, above all things, to overcome the inflationary spiral which had been the history of the past 3 years of socialist legislation. This Government, by budgetary measures, will overcome inflation and will also overcome the problems of unemployment which are consequent upon inflation. I indicated that it was most remarkable that within 9 months a budget could be brought down which introduced so many features aimed at development and reform of the economy as this Budget proposes to do. 
Among the most significant of those matters which I indicated was the indexation of personal income tax. This proposal costs the Treasury some billion dollars but it gives a real measure of relief to wage and salary earners and consequently, one hopes, it will bring about a lessening of the pressures for ever increasing wages and salaries in this country. Personal income tax indexation must go a significant way towards restoring a proper real level of wages and salaries. I had further indicated the dramatic measure of change which was relevant to the child endowment policies and which must increase the stability and security of the family unit in the economy. A wide range of other matters has been covered. In these matters the Budget has been able to provide considerable increases in expenditure and, one assumes, in the effective operation of these areas. I refer to such measures as those pertaining to overseas aid where an increase of 14.6 per cent over the previous year is envisaged. I refer also to a number of other significant areas of increase- social security and defence- and all the elements in the Budget towards stability and growth for the Australian wool industry. 
There are one or two other matters which I would like to refer to briefly before I conclude my remarks. I draw to the attention of the chamber the fact that all these progressive and developmental processes in the Budget have been achieved in the context of an anticipated decline in the deficit of about a billion dollars. This of itself is a significant contribution to overcoming the inflationary problem in this country. I do not propose to enter in any depth into statistics of the relationship between the Commonwealth and the States. Suffice it to say briefly that the States in their entirety have available to them $89m more than they would have had under the old system of  Mr Whitlam  's Government. Suffiice it to say that they have 15 per cent more funds overall than they had in the previous year. Suffice it to say that in the area of local government there is a significant increase of some 75 per cent, about $80m, in untied moneys bringing this amount to $140m. I take this opportunity to point out these matters because they relate quite definitely to the philosophy of the Government parties; that is, that a significantly increased percentage of moneys made available to State and local governments is put totally in the hands of the people on the spot to administer. That is what we believe is perhaps the most important single manner of administration in this country. We want to establish a circumstance whereby the people on the spot have a real responsibility to administer their own attitudes and priorities for the development of their region, and in what country could it be more appropriate than in one as vast geographically as Australia. 
There has been little mention of another significant area of this Budget. I refer to the fact that the Government considered that the Budget could be brought down without increasing indirect taxation. This is a significant contribution to the real wages and salaries of people. Indirect taxation has been increased every year since the Budget of the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1 972, and this is the first occasion since then that indirect taxation has remained untouched. It stands in marked contrast to the 1975 socialist Budget which increased indirect taxation by about $600m. There have been numerous aids to business. The stock valuation legislation is a significant contribution. It means that there will be a tax deductibility for the increase in stock value from the beginning to the end of a financial year. The retention allowance for business has been increased from 50 per cent to 60 per cent. 
I believe that in this sort of debate one should comment on the Australian mining industry. The determination of  Mr Whitlam  and his Government literally to wipe out foreign investment in this country- in the short term they certainly succeededcaused immense devastation of mining and petroleum research and development in Australia. This devastation was evidenced by the loss and withdrawal from Australian waters of practically every oil drilling rig. It was a devastation in which, somewhat ironically, small and medium sized totally Australian mining companies were the ones most seriously damaged. It was a devastation in which a vast amount of Australian expertise moved away from these shores. In this context it was imperative that this Budget look at the mining and petroleum exploration and development industries and do something to bring back a measure of confidence. 
I believe that the investment guidelines in the Budget in themselves are a significant and responsible element in this context. The requirement for a 50 per cent Australian involvement is of mutual benefit to Australians and overseas investors alike. Australians, having that sort of investment of their own, naturally have a greater concern for the development involved. On the other hand the foreign investor, who knows that there is a significant national involvement, must have a measure of confidence which derives from the reasonable knowledge that takeovers and nationalisations which have troubled foreign investors in many other circumstances are not likely to occur in the Australian scene. 
A number of measures have been taken to increase activity in the important areas of petroleum and mineral research and development. These measures relate, to a considerable degree, to taxation deductions, incentives and other compensations of that nature. Moneys which are expended on capital equipment involved in petroleum development and exploration are to be deductible from any income. Moneys involved in the development of a mine or a field are to be deductible over a period of  S  years, not  25  years. This is a very significant change. Moneys spent on the development of transportation in the industry are to be deductible at the owner's or operator's option over a period of  10  years, not  20  years. These are just some of the ways in which we have seen fit in this Budget to assist, to re-establish, and to re-enliven the development of the mining and petroleum industries. Had there not been the possibility of any sort of revival in the petroleum industry, by  1985  we would have sunk to a point where  we  would have been more than  70  per cent dependent on foreign oil supplies, whereas in  1972  we produced some  72  per cent of our total petroleum requirements. 
Deductible items in the mining industry now also include items relating to port development, navigational aids, original dredging of harbours, the building of breakwaters and so on. The  $2  a barrel levy on crude oil will not apply to any discoveries of crude oil. This in itself is a significant attraction and a significant incentive to development in that area. The coal export levy, which was implemented last year, has been reduced by  25  per cent- and well it might be, because once again the  2  levy levels of  $2  a tonne and  $6  a tonne somewhat ironically in the main destroyed small Australian companies. The levy did great damage to the relatively marginal operations and to Australian companies in general. 
It is an irony that the legislation that proposed the levy and was introduced by a socialist government had virtually no effect on the massive mining operations but certainly drove many Australian and marginal operations around the country to the wall. 
I pause for a moment to refer to the income equalisation deposits which have virtually taken the place of drought bonds. These deposits are of great significance. Unfortunately, people in areas which have been beset by adverse climatic and market circumstances may not have much money to deposit in the near future; that is not necessarily the situation in many other parts of Australia. This scheme is a constructive and realistic attempt to equalise incomes. The scheme has a number of significant features. A wide range of deposits, from  $100  to  $100,000,  can be made. The deposits are not limited as to time. Perhaps the most significant feature is that the deposits can be withdrawn at any time, need not be withdrawn because of a drought but can be claimed and used to change techniques of production or even to change production into different avenues. I believe that this is of great significance in the development of this country. 
Finally, I want to say a word or two about estate duty. I compliment the Government on having moved a little further in this field. I sincerely hope that in the not too distant future estate duty will be abolished. Even State Labor governments today are taking the sort of action in respect of estate duty that has been taken in this Budget.  I  point out that estate duty is destructive not only of a country's capacity to maintain and develop itself but also of economic units; and it is of such a nature that because of the need for liquidity there is a tendency for long term development - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the growing concern that an important decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission recommending removal of the bans on the handling of wool bales of 204 kilograms is being flouted by the Federated Storemen and Packers Union? Is the Minister aware that the rank and file of the Storemen and Packers Union have not been consulted by their leaders since the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's decision was announced? Is the Minister also aware of the proposals for strong action by growers if the Commission's determinations are not implemented? Is it not true that there has been complaint only from the Storemen and Packers Union out of the 10 unions involved since the 1966 agreement on 204 kilograms as the maximum bale weight, an agreement to which the Australian Council of Trade Unions was a major party? Did the ACTU not advise against strike action in this dispute in February this year? Will the Minister seek to ensure that Australians in general and wool growers in particular are adequately protected against this sort of flagrant abuse of the law? 
I rise to speak briefly to this motion dealing with a matter of urgency. Whilst I have been listening to the contributions of the supporters of the motion I have decided that they really did not like the motion. I do not believe that any Opposition speaker has spoken in any sense to the motion. The motion states: 
The Government's failure to establish a definite trade relationship with the Government of the United States and the limiting effect of this failure upon access to the United States domestic market for Australian beef. 
One could be excused for thinking that that was not in any shape or form the motion to which Opposition senators had spoken. In fact,  Senator Gietzelt  spent most of his time talking about the exigencies of the financial situation in which many Australian primary producers- and in particular beef producers- have found themselves. Of course, it is regrettable that some of those things are true, but how it concerned  Senator Gietzelt  in the context of this debate seems hard to understand. Whatever the circumstances- and they are urgent circumstances and we must accept the challenge and try to overcome the problem- they are, in the main, the product of 3 years of socialist Government. Therefore I think it would have been sensible for  Senator Gietzelt  not to have referred to this sort of problem in the Australian primary producing area. I recall that only a couple of years ago the Government of the day suggested that farmers had never had it so good. Tonight we have heard a tale of woe from supporters of that Government, now sitting on the Opposition benches. If the assertions of  Senator Gietzelt  are true, it is hard to understand why the Australian electorate, only 10 months ago, failed to elect any members of the Australian Labor Party in Australian rural seats. 

 Senator Gietzelt referred to what he described as the contributions of the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  and the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair.  I believe he should also have examined the contribution of the Labor Government when in office. It was most significant, during the period to which we are referring, in producing inflation, unemployment and industrial unrest that are the basic cause of current problems not only for the beef industry but for the whole Australian economy.  Senator Gietzelt  referred to the period 1973-74 when  Mr Anthony  and many other people on both sides of politics considered that the future of the beef industry was strong. During the period 1973-74 I, like my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  was directly involved in a wide area of primary industry, including the beef industry. During that period the prices in the industry reached an all-time peak. As a result of the elation and the emotion that surrounded the success of the industry at that time predictions were made, not only by politicians but also by members of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, by people across the board such as farm writers and contributors and assessors of market opportunity and of market outlook. It was the opinion of all these people in those somewhat halcyon days that there was a sound future price-wise, for the Australian beef industry. If the members of the present Opposition had the sort of clairvoyance that enabled them as a Government to understand that the circumstances of the beef industry in 1973-74 were such that they would last for only a few more weeks then certainly it was a dereliction of their duty as a Government not to formally advise and warn the Australian beef industry that this was the sort of future with which it would be confronted. I do not recall that the Government of the day had anything to say that suggested that the buoyancy of the beef industry would be as short-lived as it was, and for reasons which I may have time to mention in a moment. There is a measure of irony in the fact that this motion which urges a better trading relationship with the U.S.A. should be moved by the present Opposition. No stance has ever been adopted in this country by any Government- I refer not only to coalition governments of the past but also to Labor Party Governments in the past- which was more anti-American than the stance adopted by  Mr Whitlam  's socialist Government. 
There must be a real measure of irony in a circumstance which sees the promotion of this motion tonight suggesting that we are failing to establish a better relationship with the United States of America. The motion refers to 'a definite trade relationship'. In the present context there are difficulties related to over-production in America, to the strength of the cattlemen 's lobby and, indeed, there are difficulties which all of us understand- I am sure the Opposition understands also- which are related to the sort of political pressures that exist at present in the United States. 
The motion states that we should seek a definite trade relationship with the United States. I suggest that over many decades we have had just that. We have had a definite and excellent trade relationship with the United States. A trade relationship must surely be relative to the closeness of the contact between the trading partners. It must surely be relative to the determination of the trading partners to come together and mutually to seek solutions to their problems and, consequently, to seek quotas and agreements that are in line with the problems of trade that confront them. That is what a definite trade relationship in the circumstances of free trading or free market economies must mean. We are told in this motion that we should try to establish a definite trade relationship. What I am saying is that such a relationship has been dominantly and clearly the very essence of our trading relationship with the United States over practically the 70-odd years of federation. 
Of course, there is a great urgency for Australia to consolidate the market for beef in the United States because the United States takes more than half of our export beef. Indeed, we have to find a market for 60 per cent or more of the beef we produce. There is an equal urgency that we should seek to diversify the areas of our markets for beef. We have been and are doing exactly that. In .the Middle East, SouthEast Asia, Japan, the Philippines- across a very wide range of the world- we are seeking and in some real measure slowly succeeding in finding new and diversified areas in which to market our beef. 
I return to this trading relationship and to the assumption that it is bad. I suggest that we remind ourselves that more than 50 per cent of the beef imported into America- let us remember that America needs to import only 7 per cent of its total beef requirements so great is its internal production- comes from Australia. That is not a bad performance- that is not the result of a bad sort of trading relationship. Why are we receiving that proportion of their market? I suggest it is simply because of our capacity and our determination to supply the sort of goods that the American market requires and, indeed, it is because of our effective negotiation not only now but also over the decades that have passed. 
If this motion has a political increment in it- of course, no one would suspect that that was so- it must surely seek to suggest that the problems of the Australian beef industry are directly referable to our failure to negotiate with the United States of America. Nothing is further from the truth. To the contrary, as recently as 1975-76 Australia exported to the United States of America the second greatest amount of beef in the last 5 years. The problems of this industry relate not to our failures to negotiate with nor our failure to understand the United States of America but rather to a number of other things. Our problems in this industry relate in the first place to the colossal drought and to the fires that have ravaged this country over the past 10 to 12 months, which have seen put onto the market far more animals than would otherwise have been put onto the market and, indeed, animals whose condition was not such that it was capable of bringing anything like a reasonable price. . 
Moreover, the problems in the industry are due to the energy crisis in Japan. Suddenly the amount of money that was available to Japan to purchase beef- she was purchasing more and more beef every year- dried up dramatically as she was faced with a 400 per cent increase in the amount of foreign exchange needed to bring in that energy producing material that was needed to keep her massive industries going. Japan dramatically fell from the market from a requirement of about 100 million tons to 8 million tons of beef. This was referable to the energy crisis rather than to a failure to negotiate. Our problems are referable also to inflation. The efforts of the European Economic Community to become self-sufficient have taken away from the Australian beef industry, at least temporarily, a market of something like 60 000' tons of beef annually. 
As time passes I have not the opportunity to continue looking in depth into this most important industry. But I do most strongly say that the motion that is before us suggesting that we have not a proper trading relationship with the United States is utter and complete piffle. I have great pleasure in opposing the motion. I move: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="069232197610133_33_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069232197610133_33_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="069232197610133_33_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Gietzelt's)  be agreed to. 
-Can the Minister for Science confirm that a case of the horse disease, babesiosis, was identified recently in New South Wales. How serious is the disease? Are the appropriate authorities conducting research into its cause and its cure? 
-I briefly enter this debate on the Christmas Island Agreement Bill 1976. I have listened with interest to the comments of  Senator Douglas 
McClelland who basically indicated that he and the Opposition, which he represents, approve of the BUI and in fact support it. In response to the one or two elements which he mentioned as being referable to the contribution of his own Party when in government, I guess one might comment, as his leader in those days so often commented, that that is a matter of judgment. Christmas Island is an extraordinary island in the sense that it has only one effective element of economic operation. Christmas Island has been, is and will be, so far as it is possible to ascertain, totally dependent on the mining and export of phosphate rock. Consequently, this industry has a significant and a frightening restraint on the future of Christmas Island. I am sure that there has been a moral obligation on the pan of Australia, a moral obligation that has been accepted over the years referable to the circumstances which now appear to be only 20 years away, in which the very lifeblood of the Christmas Island community will have been drained away. Then Christmas Island virtually will have no future. This Bill seeks practically to implement the sort of things that must happen, to recognise that moral obligation and to solve the problems that will be faced by a community whose sole source of livelihood is seen to be running out in the relatively short term of 20 years. 
Christmas Island has another peculiarity. It is an island which has no indigenous population and this, in a sense, has added to its problems. The people of Christmas Island have come there to work from other lands- from Australia, Singapore and Malaysia. Consequently, they do not have a deep involved society of their own. Due to that lack of depth in their society they are faced with difficulties and problems and it is our duty and our responsibility to recognise and to solve those problems.  Senator Douglas  McClelland mentioned that in 1958, when the ultimate rundown of the supply of phosphate rock and the problems associated with it were recognised, we saw the necessity to establish a fund which was to be used ultimately to solve the problems of resettlement of the people who, over the years since mining operations began in 1899, had migrated to work on Christmas Island. That 1958 legislation and the fund that it established were proper and effectual except that in those days it was not clear that the supply of rock would run out in such a relatively short time. It was not determined then that resettlement from that fund should take effect at any time from that time on. It has become clear and evidentbecause of the facts I have mentioned- that we now have to approve this legislation so that the fund may be used from this point on effectively to resettle the people of Christmas Island as resettlement becomes voluntarily necessary. In 1965 there was a change in recognition of the rundown of the supply of rock and the fact that there were no alternative occupations available for the people of Christmas Island. There was recognition that from that time onwards labour forces in Christmas Island would come for a 3-year period and, at the end of that period, would undertake to return to their homeland. That has, of course, to some real measure reduced the problem of resettlement which applies to the long term members of the community of Christmas Island. I guess one could say that in 1 965 the problem, which was continuing, became more and more evident and was at least arrested. 
Late in 1972 the McMahon Government approved a policy for the long term settlement of the people of Christmas Island. In April 1 973 the then Whitlam Labor Government endorsed that policy, and properly so. I believe it was a shame that so much time- 2 te years- had passed by without that endorsement being implemented by legislation.  Senator Douglas  McClelland has proffered some realistic and sensible reasons as to why it was not done and because he recognises that it should be done he clearly supports this legislation. However, the fact that what this Bill purports to do has not been done has led to a real measure of dismay, concern and uncertainty in the lives of the people of Christmas Island. Wherever there is uncertainty about the livelihood of people, social and economic problems will arise. In relation to the resettlement program, this legislation sets out to overcome those problems. It is important that the legislation be implemented forthwith so that the uncertainty, which surrounds the people of Christmas Island can, as far as possible, be removed. 
The agreement between the Australian and New Zealand governments, which was reached in early September this year, has made it possible now to implement the legislation before us. The fund which was established in 1958 to which I referred earlier is to be built up by a levy on a per tonne basis of the phosphate produced and exported from Christmas Island. At this time, the levy stands at $4.5m. The amendment that we propose enables that fund to be used from this point on to resettle those long-term workers of Christmas Island by a voluntary and gradual process. I emphasise the need for a voluntary and gradual process because it has within it the very seeds of permanency and they are extraordinarily important. This legislation has the capacity to start that proper and sensible program of resettlement of the long term servers on Christmas Island in the country of their choice. I understand, to a large degree, that Australia will be that country. 
The scheme seeks to allow about 300 qualified people to be resettled in each year. I think that, in itself, is a sensible part of the legislation. The fact that a relatively small number will be resettled each year means that, in all probability, they will be resettled in their various places of choice at a time and in a way which will enable them to become a properly integrated part of the community to which they move. At the same time, with the projected future of only 20 years for the rock phosphate industry, it is certainly not possible to allow any measure of distortion of the operation of Christmas Island itself. At the rate of 300 resettlements a year it seems unlikely that there would be any real distortion of the operation of the island. The people who are to be resettled are to be replaced by people who go to the island on a short-term 3-year basis, having given an undertaking to return to their homeland. 
With those objectives the scheme seeks to establish a resettlement allowance for the people who are to be resettled from Christmas Island. It undertakes to pay all necessary fares. It undertakes to establish scholarships to enable those people who move to another country to further their education and in particular to further their technical qualifications to equip them to fit into the community in which they find themselves. It undertakes to help these people in a realistic way to find employment and housing in the country to which they move. Already some 450 people have moved from Christmas Island to the Australian scene, mainly to Western Australia- to the Katanning area and to the northwest. So far as I have ascertained they have moved into those areas with a great deal to offer and have settled in as good citizens. 
I support this legislation. It is a realistic and proper measure designed to implement practically and sensibly a moral obligation that has existed over many years to a small island with pecularities relating to a single item economy and a society that has no indigenous population. It is with pleasure that I endorse the legislation that is before the chamber. 
I rise briefly to support the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. 1 intend to stick to a general consideration of the matters involved in this most important legislation. I do not intend to involve myself in a discussion of personalities. But I find it necessary to refer to one or two things that  Senator Button  said in his opening remarks which I found a little disappointing. He referred as being empty rhetoric references to democracy, to the minority interests, to the involvement of the mass of the people in the establishment of those who represent them, whether it be in a union, some other organisation or association or in the Parliament itself. I do not believe that on reflection  Senator Button  would think that that sort of matter was merely empty rhetoric. Perhaps he had forgotten involvement that he has expressed from time to time with the principles of democracy. 
I recall that he referred to conversations with  Mr Hawke  some months ago in which  Mr Hawke,  talking about the establishment of a trade union conciliation and arbitration amendment Bill, said- I cite  Senator Button's  words referable to  Mr Hawke-  that there was no monolithic trade union view. If that is so, I assume that the legislation which the Government promotes is extremely reasonable and responsible legislation. If there is no monolithic trade union view, how sensible and reasonable it seems that in producing legislation in this area we should look to cover the widest possible range of involvement and the widest possible range of problems that occur within the trade union movement, as indeed they occur within any movement or association in our community. I feel that I should reiterate that the Government does not actually condemn the direct method of election. It is not a question of condemning that sort of election of a trade union representative or of any other representative. All we seek to do is to suggest that there may be circumstances in which methods other than the direct method fit the circumstances better. Therefore our legislation basically seeks to give to the trade union movement as a whole a real measure of choice, a real measure of adopting that particular view or that particular method that seems best to fit the circumstances as the membership should see them. 

 Senator Button suggested later when he approved of democracy and the methods and philosophy of democracy that management should reflect the rank and file views. I hope that he meant that it should reflect as near as possible 100 per cent of the rank and file view. If he did mean that, I wonder how he views a circumstance in which I understand that in one union, which is perhaps the biggest trade union in Australia, less than 2 per cent of the membership elected its leaders. I do not quite understand how that fits the circumstances as promoted by  Senator Button  that it would be ideal that the leadership should represent the views of the rank and file of a union movement or, as I have said before, of any other association or organisation. It seems to me that the membership participation, that the involvement of the great majority of the people in a trade union or in any other organisation, should most certainly be those people who elect or produce those who are to lead them, who are to negotiate on their behalf on all the hundreds of important issues that come before those organisations. That is the very essence of democracy. It is not empty rhetoric. It is a circumstance that can be applied only in the sort of community, in the sort of society, in the sort of political orientation, in the sort of parliamentary control in which we in Australia find ourselves. 
The difficult proposition is to answer that question, to find the best method by which a measure of real democracy can be called upon to result in the election of those people whom the great mass of the unionists require to lead them. That leads me to wonder how sincere is the resolution of the antagonists of this legislation, how sincere is their involvement and their concern for what is truly a democratic circumstance. I wonder whether they are more concerned with the political philosophy which they promote from time to time in most places, which sees the state as the master of the people, the controller and the owner, and not merely as an entity whose chief performance of duty is to prevent exploitation, whether it be of resources, material or mankind itself. 
I seem to think, as I look at this legislation and as I listen to the opposition to it from the Australian Labor Party in the chamber tonight, that it highlights a problem which I believe is basic to the problems which confront Australians and certainly to the problems that confront parliamentary democracy in this country. It seems to me that there is a tendency to want to establish a circumstance in which the left wing or the radical element of the political entity in this country becomes totally associated with the promotion of the union official, the promotion of leadership within the union itself. The tragedy of this is that if we allow that sort of thing to continue we are going to develop an immense gap between the basic political philosophies, between the major entities in the Australian parliamentary scene. My concern is that if we allow this sort of gap to widen we are laying the foundations for the destruction of the parliamentary system, because that sort of gap if allowed to grow to virtually unmanageable proportions will ultimately lead us to some son of dictatorship of the Left or the Right. I suggest that if we are led through this son of circumstance to a dictatorship of the Left or the Right- whether it be the Left or the Right is purely a matter of academic interest- it is a dictatorship and it must above all things be avoided in the circumstances of the Australian community. I make those comments quite sincerely because I think that it is a great shame that the opposition to these particular conciliation and arbitration amendments is an opposition which relates itself to support by the radical left wing trade union element supported by the radical left wing political element in the Australian context. 
Consequently, the promotion of the amendments that are in this Bill become of even more significance than one may have imagined. I am convinced- as a prelude to this particular legislation there has been considerable discussion and months of investigation- that the only way in which we can survive as a total economic and social community is by a proper measure of recognition of the inter-relation between all the spheres of operation in this country- between trade unionists, between management, between governments. If we are able to establish that circumstancewe believe that these amendments go some way towards establishing that circumstancethen we have achieved the necessary foundation for the continuation and development of a democratic circumstance in Australia. We have to recognise that only by discussion, only by recognition of the problems across the board, only by recognition of the interdependence that exists between every section of the community are we to establish a measure of real permanence in the solutions which we seek. I might say in reference to those thoughts that probably the American circumstance fills considerable numbers of Australians with a measure of envy, for it does appear that there is not the sort of vast ideological gap between the major political entities in that democracy. 
Debate interrupted. 
When I was speaking on the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 last evening I was drawing attention to the fact that it was immensely necessary that we establish a method of election of officers in the conciliation and arbitration system that permitted the greatest possible number of members of Australian unions at the grass roots level to take a real part in the election of those people who are to negotiate for them. I had drawn attention to the fact that there was unfortunately in Australia what perhaps could be regarded as something that must be arrested, namely, an ever widening gap between the basic political philosophies in this country. 
I further suggest that it seems a shame that this sort of legislation should virtually be opposed by the Opposition in this place for no other reason than that of opposing it. I believe that the legislation goes a significant distance in the direction of establishing in the election of trade union members and in the election of officers of other organisations and associations, a circumstance which will tend to have a reasonable measure of flexibility about it. It seems to me that while we in Australia in particular support the direct vote in electing those who are to represent us in our various organisations, we do believe that there is probably a reasonable case for establishing some measure of collegiate system. We believe no more than that Australian unionists and others should have a right of choice in the method by which they elect those people who are to represent them in these important areas. 
We feel that in the smaller branches of some unions located in the far flung areas of Australia it is almost impossible, by means of a purely direct voting system, to elect people who may have a real capacity and a real contribution to make to industrial relations. Those people who might be able to make such a contribution sometimes face great difficulties, whether they be financial, geographic or otherwise, to present themselves to their friends and to the vast membership of the union in such a manner that they have any chance of being elected. Consequently it seems that from the point of view of the far flung smaller branches and from the point of view of trade union members in the smaller States there is perhaps a case worth considering for instituting what we have suggested should be a one-tier collegiate system of voting under which a college is elected by a total vote of the grass roots membership of the organisation. That is all that this legislation does. It merely suggests that there should be a measure of choice in the way in which the vast bulk of trade unionists may elect those who are to represent them. 
I believe that the time has certainly come, particularly in the industrial circumstances and atmosphere of today, for the representatives of trade unions, for management and for government to get together and to have proper, constructive, responsible and, I would hope, unemotional discussion about the direction in which they should go. Unless that sort of thing occurs, unless we in this country achieve a real recognition on the part of all people that our future and our potential is related directly to our capacity to develop the productivity that we need in this country, then, of course, all of us- not individually or in groups or in associations- will be heading for a disaster course. We have to recognise that to talk of productivity is not to talk of economic and social goals that are diametrically opposed to each other, but rather to talk of economic and social goals that are travelling parallel to each other. 
It could well be that, in view of the interdependence that we must recognise in the Australian scene, there is a case for an industry based concept of unionism. This seems to me to be something that should be discussed at the highest levels. It seems to me to proffer an opportunity for those Australians concerned to be involved in what is virtually a circumstance of vertical integration. It would be a circumstance in which all those members of industry and commerce and of the various trade unions- I am talking about those confined to a specific industrywould have a clearer recognition of the responsibility that interdependence places on every member and every association in our community. 
The amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act contained in this Bill seek to implement 2 methods, and consequently a choice, of election- direct election or election by a one-tier collegiate system. In the case of part time officials it provides for election by direct method, by a one-tier collegiate system or by a multiple-tier collegiate system, which is the circumstance that applied prior to 1973. That is basically all that the legislation seeks to do. It seeks to achieve a widespread and realistic involvement of the grass roots membership of Australian trade unions in order that the great majority of that membership may be assured that, according to the method that they choose, they will be represented in negotiations by people whom they are totally sure that they want to represent them. It reflects the acceptance of the principle of a form of collegiate voting, provided that the system is consistent with the development of the involvement of the total grass roots section of the trade union membership. 
I want to refer to just a couple of comments that I have read recently.  Mr Cameron,  when he was the Minister responsible for industrial matters in the Labor Government in 1 973, said: 
We do not worry about pressure groups. 
He said further: 
We do what we think is best for the country and, in this case, what we think is best for the trade union movement. 
I do not doubt that that is what  Mr Cameron  believed at that time. I certainly do not doubt that what we propose to do is what we believe is the best and proper circumstance to apply to the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill. We believe after lengthy discussion and consideration that this is a proper and necessary form of amendment. 
I noted also that in the other place on 3 November the honourable member for Port Adelaide,  Mr Young,  in talking on this Bill made reference to 2 trade union secretaries and said that they were closer to the Liberal and National Country Parties and the Australian Democratic Labor Party than to the Australian Labor Party. That may or may not be so. But my point is: what if it were so? Is the inference that a trade union representative or member has no right to belong to any other sort of political philosophy or entity at all? If that is the inference that  Mr Young  was making then I think it is one of the most undemocratic and un-Australian utterances that I have yet read. I am sure that that is the sort of attitude that will carry us along the road to economic and industrial disaster and it is the sort of attitude that the amendments which are before us will go a long way towards arresting. Indeed one would assume that if  Mr Young  meant, by inference, what I have assumed he meant, that he places trade unionism in its traditional role of concern for the development of the conditions of the work force, wages and salaries, a measure of leisure time, how best to use it and how much to have, if these are the circumstances that are indeed basic to the trade union organisation- I believe they are and they are extraordinarily important- then  Mr Young  would regard trade unions as totally subservient to the political views and objectives of the people who lead those very trade unions. 
I close my remarks by referring once again to the remark of  Mr Hawke  some months ago when he finally decided that there was no monolithic trade union view. It is because I doubt that it should be expected there would be no monolithic trade union view that I suggest that the legislation that is before us, with its flexibility, with its concern that every trade unionist in Australia should have a right and proper capacity to register his vote for the person who wants to lead him is a reasonable and proper adjunct to the Australian industrial relations scene and I have pleasure in supporting it. 
I rise to support these Bills- the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill 1976 and the States (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Bill 1 976- which have been proposed by the Government, and to oppose the amendment which has been put down by  Senator Wriedt  on behalf of the Opposition. The amendment suggests that the Bills be withdrawn and redrafted, which is extraordinarily savage treatment when one considers that since the communications between the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the States of 3 November there has been a marked diminishing of any reference to problems related to this legislation. Not only have the Premiers, with the possible exception in a very much diminished way of  Mr Wran  in New South Wales, ceased to make any real comment on assumed or presumed problems relative to this legislation, but the Press seems to find virtually no place even for comment let alone for a measure of real criticism of the Bills now before the Senate. 
As I listened to  Senator Wriedt,  there seemed to be a sort of nasty logic in the Opposition's stance on this tremendously important legislation. It seems to be a logic that is related to the fact that, having been through an election in which the centralism and federalism concepts were major problems and major elements for discussion and determination by the electorate and having witnessed the Australian electorate come down strongly, in common with most democratic societies around the world today, in favour of the federalist concept and all that it means to State and local governments, he now chooses to take a position whereby he will seek to destroy the effective implementation of legislation which can only be of benefit to the States and to local government areas in Australia. 
I cannot proceed to a further point in this debate without mentioning the somewhat ironical stand taken by the Premier of New South Wales. If it were not a serious matter it would in fact be rather humorous to witness, as we do,  Mr Wran  in my State of New South Wales virtually posing as the defender and promoter of federalism and complaining bitterly that his State, as a government and as local government within its area, has lost a measure of independence. Here is  Mr Wran  taking this stance when he as an individual, one would assume, as a member of Parliament and as a political philosopher, is totally beholden to a centralist view and is totally beholden to a policy under which the States as sovereign entities ultimately are to be abolished, under which local government, in its traditional development and its traditional purpose on the Australian scene, is virtually to disappear and under which these 2 entities are to be replaced by a considerable number- perhaps twenty; perhaps thirty- of quite sizable regions in the Australian scene, all of which are to be held in strong contact with and control by the centralist authority in Canberra. So,  Mr Wran  now complains, presumably for some political reasonwhat else, because he has moved far away from the centralist philosophy which he and his fellows promote? Overnight he has become- as it were- the champion of federalism and the champion of the rights of freedom of sovereign State governments and local government. If this were not a serious matter which had great relevance to the ultimate projection of this Government's policy, the discussion of this legislation, as I said earlier, would have to be taken in a somewhat humorous vein. Indeed, in my State of New South Wales perhaps the State Government could be contributing a great deal more to this decentralist federalist view which, I am glad to say, it is now promoting. The New South Wales Government could contribute a great deal more in these areas if it were to reconsider some of the most recent legislation it has introduced. I have in mind the 7 per cent across-the-board increase in freight rates in New South Wales. What sort of contribution is this to decentralisation? What sort of contribution is this to local government? What sort of a contribution is it to the cost structure of the people who live and work in the towns, the provincial cities and on the farms in New South Wales and, if this sort of legislation is to persist, in other areas also? 
I turn briefly to one or two matters relevant to the legislation and to the principles contained in it. The Bills that we are discussing are designed to implement, financially, the undertakings of the Liberal-National Country Party Government referable to State and local governments. Those areas of government see the 3-tier system of government as a quite necessary and most important series of checks and balances for the whole system of operation of this continent. In spite of what has been said by  Mr Wran  and, in some measure, by  Senator Wriedt,  I believe that this view of the 3-tier system of government stands in stark contrast to the centralist view which has been expressed, designed and promoted by the Australian Labor Party, certainly up to this point in time. I believe this view will remain dominant in its thinking and political system, a system in which ultimately there will be no sovereign State but simply a series of regional puppets controlled and determined by Canberra itself. 
-Senator Gietzelt may think it is rubbish. A great number of Australian do not believe it is rubbish but believe they have seen indications of this change in philosophy. This legislation virtually seeks to enact the agreements that were reached at 3 most successful Premiers Conferences this year- the conferences of February, April and June. These conferences brought about the proposition of federalist legislation in a real and constructive manner. Indeed, agreement was reached at these conferences on a great number of issues related to the division of finance among State and local governments. I think some evidence of the success of the promotion that this legislation and those agreements heralded is the fact that every State government in Australia today is able to balance or almost balance its budget. This can be interpreted only as a favourable comment on the principles and the objectives of the sort of legislation that is before us now. After all, about 33.6 per cent of total revenue from personal income tax has been allocated, with the agreement of all States, to the States to be divided between State and local government authorities. This is an improvement, mark you, on the circumstances that existed previously and that would have existed had the system of  Mr Whitlam  's regime remained. 
I reiterate the fact that in all these discussions and deliberations every State Premier agreed. Indeed, it is worth remembering that one of those Premiers,  Mr Dunstan  of South Australia, promoted the very concept of the involvement of States in a growth tax in the Australian circumstance, and well he may have done.  Mr Dunstan  had lived and goverrned through a 3-year period which saw an increase in the revenue from personal income tax in Australia rise by about 300 per cent. The results and the implications of this situation were perfectly clear to  Mr Dunstan  and have been incorporated in the legislation and in the agreements that concern the Senate in this particular debate. The opposition to this legislation, of course, is a typically centralist view. It can be no other because it seeks to replace the sort of circumstances to which this legislation is relevant by a totally different system, a system which was rejected by the Australian electorate very recently. The surcharges are written into this legislation more as a safeguard for the States than for any other reason. The legislation concerns an arrangement in which the States will receive at least $89m more from the Commonwealth this financial year than they would have received under the previous system. Indeed, in the area of local government untied grants the increase has been more significant. As a percentage it represents 75 per cent and, in money terms, it represents the difference between $79m and $ 140m. 
The purpose of this legislation is to strengthen the independence of governments, whether they be at State or local government level. Also it will end a period of coercion in the area of government referable to the relationship between the central Canberra Government and the State and local governments. It is interesting to recall that the Australian Labor Party itself was originally a federalist organisation. I believe that it was only after the planned economy that was necessary to solve the problems of wartime that the Labor Party in this country determined that a planned economy of that kind might work as well in peacetime as it did in wartime. Of course, the objectives were considerably different. The wartime objective of survival, following the 'whatever may be ' philosophy, is different indeed from the objective in peacetime which is, in a democracy, to implement legislation which takes account of human nature. It was assumed, quite wrongly, that a planned economy, which is planned in a more or less laboratory type atmosphere, would still work in a peacetime circumstance where it has to contend in a free country with human nature itself. It has been revealed time and again that this is not the circumstance; that there is not the luxury of freedom available to enable that sort of planned economy to operate. 
I remarked earlier- I believe it should not be lost sight of as these matters of centralism and federalism are constantly raised- that there is a tendency in the world today wherever democracy and free communities and free parliaments operate, for there to be an increase in federalist concepts as opposed to the centralist concept. An amount of 33.6 per cent of net personal income tax is to be made available to States and local government. I believe that it is tremendously important that we should look at the local government area in this legislation. Local government in whichever State it is situated is to receive an amount equal to 1.52 per cent of personal income tax. This amount is to be provided for that form of government alone. So local government has an involvement with a growth tax, a capacity for flexibility, and a capacity to identify objectives over a longer term. This is the sort of circumstance that local government had sought for a long time. In fact the result of this sort of legislation is that there will be available to the States and local government significant volumes of money in lump sums. This of itself will reduce the necessity that has occurred quite regularly and historically for governments to seek bridging finance. It will mean that governments will not be unsure of the basic amount of moneys which they will be able to use in their various areas. 
So far as I can see, it has been suggested in opposition to this legislation only that it is a devious ploy. I believe that that sort of attitude, to use another phrase, is a figment of the imagination. The legislation that we have before us sincerely and on a consultative basis attempts to enact the federalist system referable to the finances of States and local government. It has been said that significant amounts of moneys that were spent on the Regional Employment Development scheme are not to be found in the moneys that are referable to this sort of financing. I answer that by suggesting that the RED scheme, which incidentally was abandoned by  Mr Whitlam  himself, allowed no sense of priority, no sense of determination to local government itself. It was a desperate scheme to patch up the circumstances that resulted from economic mismanagement. It was a desperate and short-term scheme which had no relevance to long-term permanent finance in the State or local government area. The amount of the untied general revenue grants under this legislation is significantly higher than the amount of moneys provided under the RED scheme. 
When we are talking of untied grants and of the capacity of local government to operate in varying fields, I believe it is worthy to remember what happened to local government in extrametropolitan Australia during the 3 years of socialist government. I seem to recall that in the area of rural arterial roads in the 3 years from 1973-74 to 1975-76 there was a reduction, from $ 13.5m to $9.7m in the amount of moneys available to local government. The amount of moneys available for rural local roads over the same 3-year period was reduced from $2 1.6m to $14m. This happened in a period when inflation was running at 12 per cent, 14 per cent, and 16 per cent. That sort of circumstance can hardly be seen as helpful to those vast areas of local government which are involved constantly in maintaining and developing communications of great significance to the whole nation, not only to the region in which they operate. 
I believe these 2 Bills provide a dramatic and important change. They contain within them the financial changes that are necessary to be enacted in order that the federalist policy that we have promoted should in fact become part of the legislation of this Government and of the Australian scene. I believe that it is a shame that  Mr Wran,  on 4 November, failed to take any notice of the communication he had received from the Prime Minister on 3 November. 
I would imagine he also got a communication on 13 December 1975.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I was saying that it was rather strange that  Mr Wran  on 4 November refused even to recognise a communication, which was a significant communication because it conveyed a real measure of understanding and communication and a real and responsible measure of amendment to legislation. This whole matter was completely and totally ignored. Perhaps that is the reason why the heat seems to have died away from this 24-hour experience. Perhaps that is the reason why today no great concern is apparent among the Premiers of Australia. Perhaps that is the reason why the legislation before us today does not raise one small type line in the Press of this country. That certainly is among the reasons why I most strongly oppose the amendment proposed to legislation which seeks responsibly to introduce a financial system relevant to the federalist policy that we promote and that we intend to establish. That is the reason, amongst others, why I have pleasure in supporting the legislation before us. 
I rise briefly to support the statement that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has brought down. In doing so, I might say that I am rather glad  Senator Walsh's  logic is in no way relevant to the pitch of his voice or his use of adjectives. It is something of a shame that that sort of attitude should be adopted by the Opposition in the circumstances which confront Australia, circumstances which have been growing now for some years. If we are all Australians, and I assume we are, then I think it is about time that we stopped having a crack at every measure which is a genuine attempt to get this country back on the rails of its enormous potential, which is where it should be. In the past 3 or 4 years we have had a wage structure which was encouraged by a socialist Administration, until towards the end of that Administration when a certain distinguished Minister for Labor was in charge. We have encouraged a wage spiral which has literally robbed the Australian work force of real opportunity. We have been led to a point in time where we are observing job opportunities running outside Australia. It is that very situation that the devaluation, along with other matters that are consequential upon it, is aimed at arresting. I assume that no country in the world would look upon devaluation as something about which it should throw its hat in the air and shout hooray. Nobody wants to take that sort of action. Such action is the result of internal and external pressures, and this devaluation is no exception to that rule. 
I will refer very briefly to one or two things I noted in the remarks of the Opposition spokesmen.  Senator Wriedt  complained, perhaps with some reason, that the Government of his day, like the Government of today, had no control over prices and wages. That is indeed a problem, but what was his Government's contribution? What was  Senator Wriedt  's contribution to that problem?  Senator Wriedt,  in his 3 years in the Government that he represented, made no attempt whatsoever to move into the courts and to suggest that the wage structure of the country had in some real measure to be related to the capacity of the economy to pay. He made no such effort at all, but virtually encouraged the problems which developed into the problems of today and indeed of yesterday. That was  Senator Wriedt  's contribution, when faced with the fact that he could not freeze wages and prices. 
In the circumstances which confront us now there is an immense responsibility in relation to the action which this Government has been compelled to take. There is an immense responsibility on management, on government and on unionists alike to come together and look at the whole package as a measure of interdependence. Unless it is looked at in that light it too may well fail. For some years we have observed members of the present Opposition suggesting that certain things are going to happen, that devaluation of the currency is around the corner. The best way to ensure that sort of thing, the best way to ensure lack of confidence in an economy which is climbing out of the problems of the last 3 or 4 years, is to keep on making those irresponsible suggestions. We are confronted today with circumstances in which we have had to devalue the Australian currency by a very significant percentage, but I do not think one could justify any criticism of the manner in which it was done. Firstly, the devaluation is significant in size, and it would have been insignificant and ineffectual had it been a tiny movement. Secondly, it was done with complete secrecy, as such a measure should be taken and as the only manner in which such an undertaking can be effectual. 

 Senator Walsh suggested that, with one exception, no academic economist in Australia would approve of this move. When I heard that remark I thought that it could indeed be a compliment to the move and may well mean that the move is going to be highly successful. One of the problems with academic economists, like a lot of other theorists, is that when their massive theories are cast loose into the economy, into society in general, where they no longer have applicable to them the atmosphere of the laboratory, they are completely meaningless and they break down. I am not so sure that if academic economists disapprove that it necessarily is a sound criticism of the measures the Government has taken.  Senator Walsh  drew attention to the fact that in nearly 3 years Australia's overseas credit had fallen by some $1.6 billion. He said that this was not very much when compared with a fall of nearly $1 billion in just over 12 months. But he did not say that when the Whitlam Government came to office, Australia's overseas standing, its overseas credit, stood at an all time high and that confidence in this Australian economy was quite extraordinary. He failed to mention those things. Of course those factors are very significant in the gradual nature of the down turn during the Labor Party's term of office. 
The other thing that  Senator Walsh  failed to tell us- this is significant- is that in those few years of Labor Government, the export industries that earn these massive overseas credits enjoyed the highest prices that this economy has ever known. I refer to minerals, beef, wheat and a number of other items. The extraordinary levels of the beef and wool markets of 1973 and 1 974 seem to have been conveniently forgotten. Yet they are the predominant reasons why Australia's overseas earnings, Australia's overseas credits had declined relatively slowly. On the contrary, in the 12 months that this Government has been in office, we have been subjected to prices for these significant earners of overseas credit which have been among the lowest on record. We have seen a dramatic and continuing fall in the price for Australian beef. We have witnessed in the last few months a very significant fall of about 25 per cent or 30 per cent in the overseas price of wheat. So there are very significant reasons why we have seen a fall in overseas credits, which has been somewhat more rapid than it was in the previous 3 years. 
It does not alter the fact that in the circumstances of fairly dramatically falling overseas credit it has been found necessary by this Government to either devalue its currency or enter into massive borrowings. It is not the nature of people of our political philosophy, of our particular economic theories, to enter needlessly into massive borrowings because massive borrowings must leave only an immense burden to the communities, the societies that follow us. We do not believe that the making of such borrowings, whether or not they be possible- indeed  Mr Whitlam  seemed to have extraordinary difficulty in making borrowings reputedly of $4 billion and sometimes said to be $8 billion overseasis a viable and proper method to use to deal with the present situation. Consequently we have seen fit to devalue the currency. In the short and intermediate term, and ultimately with a proper measure of restraint and a proper flexibility of control of exchange value, and perhaps even with some reference to tariff levels, we believe that this measure will definitely help to move this economy out of the problematic area to which it has sunk. 
The rural industry provides quite a massive amount of overseas credit- something approaching 50 per cent of the total overseas holdings. The devaluation will obviously help to raise the price of rural products, whether they be grain, wool, meat, or whatever. Insofar as it does that, quite clearly it will be of significance to that industry and to the total economy. The rural industry, perhaps more than most industries in Australia, literally has no control over its price structure. Basically it depends on overseas markets for the prices it receives. Yet it has a cost structure that is totally and absolutely tied to the internal economy in which it finds itself. This is a problem that has been extraordinarily damaging to the rural industry in Australia over the past few years. It is a situation that has been equally damaging, I believe, to the mining industry- an industry which has a great potential as an earner of overseas credits. 
I refer to the tourist industry in this country which has an enormous potential and which in the last 2 years or 3 years has sunk to an extremely low level. This sort of economic management must help the tourist industry in some real degree to climb out of the duct into which it has fallen. 
Perhaps more important than all these things, this move is designed basically to stop Australian investment money and capacity from moving out of this country and providing jobs to people in other lands. It is designed to arrest that circumstance. It is designed to bring about a circumstance in Australia whereby jobs will return to what once again will become a profitable primary and secondary part of this economy. It is to that end that the devaluation is basically directed. I believe that no one could genuinely disapprove of that objective. 
One of the extraordinary difficulties that confronts us as a country right across the canvass today is the way in which we are going to meet, acknowledge and control the threat to jobs that is contained on the surface by computerisation and ever-increasing technologies. We have to recognise that in this community there has to be a real measure of proper and constructive discussion between all sides if we are to survive. The devaluation is a reasonable and proper economic measure which is designed to arrest the somewhat drastic circumstances that have brought about a situation in which jobs are virtually being exported from Australia and in which Australia's basic primary and mining industries and her tourist industry are suffering a position from which they can see little return. I believe that this is a responsible devaluation. It has to be looked at in the context of the various measures that will be taken to control its movement over the months and years that lie ahead. I believe that as an answer to circumstances which have developed inside and outside this country, it is a real and responsible contribution to the development of the Australian economy. 
I rise to support the States Grants (Beef Industry) Amendment Bill, which is before the Senate. I am glad that  Senator Gietzelt  has indicated that the Opposition also supports this measure. Any measures that are referable to the beef industry in this country are extraordinarily important. Let me say very briefly of the Bill itself that it is in some measure an expansion of the capacity of the legislation that previously has been before us. It enables an amount of some $ 15m to be available as carry-on finance to the Australian beef industry up to the end of June 1977. 
There are one or two significant recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission that have been accepted and built into this legislation. They comprise, briefly, the fact that the limit of $15,000 which was previously available for only a year and which previously applied only to Queensland is now to be available over a period of 2 years and is now to apply to the entire pastoral zone in Australia. The other amount that is to be available- a limit of $10,000 per annum per  bona fide  beef producer- is to be available within any zone in the Australian beef producing area. Again it is to be available over 2 years instead of only one. It is important that we recognise that in this legislation the States have already in almost total measure agreed to comply with the dollar for dollar basis and with reference to the amounts involved. 
Before I proceed very briefly to mention something of the industry itself, I make mention of one or two matters to which  Senator Gietzelt  referred. He said that the great objective should be to find new markets and to increase old ones. No one on earth- certainly no one in Australiais going to object to that suggestion. Of course that is the objective that is fundamentally the real way of escape, the real manner in which success can be achieved in this great industry. But there are other matters. There are questions relative to cost and to matters within the marketing field that are not just as simple as it is to say that all one has to do is seek more markets. There are great problems relative to the final establishment of a livestock and meat marketing corporation. Virtually everybody in the industry would agree that classification is a desirable circumstance, but there are enormous problems in implementing it as a measure of the marketing system. The Government has this matter under close scrutiny, as has every organisation that has relevance to the beef producing industry in 
Australia. We certainly recognise these matters of marketing as being fundamental. 
Classification and the establishment of a meat marketing corporation are matters which are receiving the absolute maximum of attention. So they should. It is only with a proper consensus of the whole industry that we can hope to achieve any form of real success in this area.  Senator Gietzelt  mentioned a public corporation having powers of classification and acquisition. Of course, that is getting into pretty deep water, because one of the problems with meat, as with any product that is not easily kept is being able to stockpile it realistically and in a form in which it retains its attractiveness to the markets around the world. This is an obvious and extraordinary problem. If we can grapple with it and solve it, then the problems that confront the Australian beef industry are relatively small. 
I noted also that  Senator Gietzelt  mentioned the suggestion that the Minister for Primary Industry make reference to the Japanese of Australian fishing rights in the context of Japan's withdrawal from the importation of a significant amount of beef. He said that that was wielding a big stick and we should not be wielding a big stick because we are a relatively small nation, whether from the point of view of population, consumption or whatever. Of course that is very true. Nevertheless, the approach was reasonable to make. It was reasonable to make that point. If you accept the view that negotiation is a proper thing and then say it is no good negotiating because someone is bigger than you are, you are in a cleft stick and there will be no negotiation at all. So it is quite proper that we should use what significant forces we can muster in negotiating with the Japanese over this problem. The further approaches of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to the Japanese have made it fairly evident that there is a strong possibility of Japan reassessing and perhaps amending its beef imports in early 1977. So the approach and the negotiations have not by any means been a worthless exercise. 
It is true that 4 per cent- a low rate of interest, as  Senator Gietzelt  described it- was the rate of interest on the carry-on finance that was available during the Australian Labor Party's term of Government, as it continues to be under the present Government. That 4 per cent for carry-on finance for the beef industry is a relatively, and properly, low interest rate. It is interesting to remember also that the Labor Government offered to the beef industry through the Commonwealth Development Bank an amount of $28m in additional aid which was taken up at a very slow rate, if in fact it was taken up in total. That amount of money was offered at a commercial rate of interest to an industry that was in pretty dire straits. 
When this legislation becomes law it will mean that up to the end of June 1977 there will be available to the Australian beef industry in carry-on finance at 4 per cent interest about $27.3m to be matched by the States. The terms and conditions of the money have been considerably liberalised in this legislation. If a producer is outside the zone or is in some way outside the context of the legislation he still has an opportunity to apply to the loan administering authority for special conditions and special consideration. 
I do not want to say more than that about the Bill itself. It is significant. It gives an industry that is in dire straits some sort of solid background and some hope for the months ahead. It has recently been assessed that of the 50 000  bona fide  beef producers in Australia only some 1 8 000 are viable in that they earn in the vicinity of $5,000 a year or more. Some 1 1 500 earn between no income and $5,000. A further 13 000 are losing up to $5,000 annually and 7500 are losing more than $5,000 annually. So there is a crisis in this industry, and it is due to several things. Many of them are largely outside the control of governments. I do not want it to be imagined that the difficulties of the beef producing industry in Australia are such that it should be suggested that this is an untenable enterprise or that it has no real significance in the future of this country. The beef industry has a great potential for employment and for earning overseas credits. It is an industry which is significant in the employment of men on the producing properties, in the transport system, the meat works, the processing works, the wholesale business, the retail business, and so on. 
It has great significance in that area and it has a significance in earning overseas credits which, even at their lowest point, amounted to some $500m. In their heyday these earnings were in excess of $1 billion. The industry is certainly a tenable industry. It is going through very difficult times and it has had a sad recent history. In very recent times it has seen the impossibility of getting through tariff barriers into the European Economic Community. It has seen its market in Japan fall in a year from 100 000 tonnes to 8000 tonnes. That is the sort of problem that has confronted the industry. The industry itself had no answer to that sort of situation. It has had quota problems relative to political situations and lobbying in the United States of America, Canada and other parts of the world. It seeks new markets. It must find new markets, but it must re-establish basic traditional markets if it is to survive and grow as it should. 
It would be wrong of me if, besides highlighting market problems, I did not mention the cost situation in the Australian beef cattle industry. We have seen an extraordinary escalation of costs in this industry of which all the people involved, particularly the workers in transport, the processing industry and the meatworks should be aware. In a single year, 1974-75, the cost of processing meat in Australia increased by some 81 per cent. In the previous 3 years, it had increased significantly by 74 per cent, but in one year the increase was 81 per cent as against an average over the previous 3 years of about 25 per cent. That is the sort of escalation that no industry can stand and that certainly the people who work in the industry at every point cannot stand. Their capacity to survive is virtually being destroyed. On both sides of this Parliament and through the integrated beef cattle industry in Australia there is recognition of the disastrous situation that that cost structure is producing. It is producing a situation in which producers are tending to become bankrupt and in which the consumers are paying infinitely more for meat than they should be paying. 
We must seek to reduce the gap that exists between the price that is paid on the farm and the price that is paid at the retail outlet. To do this we have to recognise the importance of bringing into the industry all those technological advantages that can make it a more productive industry and indeed a cheaper and more effective industry. 
We, as a government, have implemented the Industries Assistance Commission recommendations by suspending the export levy on beef and by increasing the money to be spent on the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. We are seeking desperately to establish new markets. We are seeking desperately to increase our traditional markets. In some real measure the problems which confront this industry stem from, among other things, a measure of overconfidence that was born of the 1973-74 period when beef prices in this country reached an alltime high. That circumstance was contributed to probably by practically everybody involved, politically or economically, in the industry. It was not an unreal consideration that the industry did have a buoyant future at that time. No one was to foresee the energy crisis, for instance, and the effect that it would have on the demand for Australian beef in some of our most important traditional markets; nevertheless, that overconfidence did tend to bring a measure of overproduction and it did tend to bring about the use in the beef cattle producing industry in this country of areas of land which basically were not suited to the industry. So there has to be, and I believe there is coming about, something of a rationalisation at the producer level. 
Having made those few reflections on this industry and having reiterated once again the immense importance of it from the point of view of employment, from the point of view of overseas credits and from the mere point of view that Australia produces some of the finest beef herds in the world, has some of the finest cattle producing country in the world and is a relatively economic producer at the producer level, I submit that it is absolutely imperative that we as a government do everything in our power to maintain and develop this industry and to see it ride out the rough passage that it is certainly in. This legislation is part of the process of riding out that rough passage. 
-I present the report of the Commonwealth of Australia Branch delegation to the Twentysecond Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference held in Mauritius in September this year. I seek leave to make a short statement concerning the report. 
In the unavoidable absence of my leader  (Senator Webster),  on behalf of the National Country Party I wish a very happy Christmas and a healthy and prosperous New Year to all senators and to all who serve in this chamber and enable it to do its duty. The tolerance and goodwill so evident in the last few days and hours must surely augur well for a happy Christmas and an excellent 1977. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 6.3 p.m. till Tuesday, 15 February 1977 at 2.30 p.m., or such other day and hour to be fixed in accordance with the resolution agreed to this day, which time of meeting shall be notified to each  Senator by  telegram or letter. 
I support the White Paper on defence. It is a most important document. I have been interested, as I am sure all of us have been, in listening to  Senator Wheeldon  tonight. In his usual eloquent manner he talked mainly about the super powers and the possibility of conflagration between the super powers. Of course, I do not think that that has any great relevance at all to the defence of Australia. It is perfectly obvious that if this world ever gets to the point where there is a conflagration between the super powers- that description is not only used in the defence White Paper but also it is commonly used in the  Daily Mirror  and the Press around Australia- then Australia's hopes of survival lie purely and simply in its capacity over the years to impress its more powerful allies that it is a place which is worth saving. So I think that a concentration on a possible massive conflict between the super powers is somewhat unnecessary in the terms of this debate. I do not know that I should call it a debate. I hope that it is a responsible discussion because we are talking about probably the most important thing with which all of us can be concerned, namely, the security of this country and the people and the way of life which happens to be Australian. That is what this discussion is about. 
Earlier tonight in this debate  Senator Wriedt  spoke with, I felt, a general acceptance of the responsibility of the White Paper on defence. He mentioned that he felt that there was a lack of adequate detail in some areas. I am sure that that is a point of view held by all of us. But I think it is a point of view which has to be looked at in the context of defence itself. Defence is an extraordinarily sensitive area. To express oneself in a White Paper or in any other document or context in extraordinary detail is a most difficult and dangerous procedure. If, indeed, there is an area of criticism about the lack of detail, I believe it is because defence, whether it be in Australia or in any other country, is a sensitive subject which one does not shout from the housetops.  Senator Wriedt  also mentioned that the things that need to be done may not be financially possible. That is a statement with which none of us would disagree. The extraordinarily important thing is that we recognise the matters which have number one priority in the context of Australian defence and go to the very limit of our financial capacity to bring those things about as quickly as possible. 

 Senator Wheeldon said it appeared that the concern at international communism had been abandoned. I do not believe that that is a true statement. I believe there is a measure of concern around the world in many continents at international communism. The concern is that that sort of international communism should, in fact, have taken the place of the economic imperialism which has been the circumstance of the history of the last 200 years. It is not a step in the right direction because it is, in essence and ultimately, another form of colonialism or imperialism- call it what you will. In the last 150 years we have largely moved away from that area of economic imperialism and from the days of colonialism with all the aspersions made over the years referable to that circumstance. I believe a danger still exists in the world and that we could be moving from a problem of economic imperialism to a problem of continuing- if not always at a high point- international communism. 
It is interesting to note that  Senator Wheeldon  felt that the capacity of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was so infinitely below the capacity of the United States of America. That does not seem to be the sort of evidence which many of us including at times, I believe,  Senator Wheeldon,  have heard. There is not the evidence to suggest that the U.S.S.R. military, naval and air capacity is so far below that of the United States of America. Indeed,  Senator Wheeldon  put the interesting proposition that, rather than seeking a matching presence in the Indian Ocean between the super-powers it would be far better if those super-powers abandoned any form of presence in the Indian Ocean. Of course, on the surface no one would argue with that proposition. But where is the guarantee that if the super-powers, with their present relatively small capacities there, move out of the Indian Ocean the other littoral States around the Indian Ocean will not involve themselves in a constant and continuing conflict? I can see no logical reason why it should be assumed that if the superpowers withdrew from the Indian Ocean there would then be a sea of peace because there would then be no other navies- and there are significant navies and air forces and also nuclear capacities- around the Indian Ocean.  Senator Wheeldon  feels, I am sure, that there would be no reason to assume that any of those navies or air forces would involve themselves in conflict. I do not believe that that would be so, and I tend to the view that in the foreseeable future the best security of this country and of many of the littoral States of the Indian Ocean lies in their capacity to ensure that there is a measure of matching power in the Indian Ocean between the super-powers at a low level. 
Having made those few points, let me deal in general terms with the White Paper which is under discussion. I believe that the Paper is important, and probably a measure of congratulations is due to the Government and to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  for having brought down this responsible analysis of the possible commitments of Australia in relation to defence and her capacity to meet them. There has been a need for such an analysis in this country for a long time. It was essential that we should have sought to assess those areas which are areas of possible menace to this country and that we should have sought to assess and analyse the method by which we could best approach a capacity to resist those attacks which in some ways might appear to be real possibilities. The White Paper devotes considerable space to a discussion of the manpower, equipment and training that is necessary in the context of the Australian economy to produce that capacity. Our economy certainly is a restraining influence on our capacity to build up our defence forces. For instance, we have not sought to do what I understand the Soviet Union nas done. It has raised something in the vicinity of $36 billion worth of long-term loan money in the Soviet Union for capital and consumer goods. This has enabled the Soviet Union to devote enormous amounts of its capacity to the production of aircraft and tanks and to the training of soldiers. We have not been able to do that sort of thing. Indeed, we have not sought to do it, and I believe it is important that we remember that. 
The debate tonight, which concerns the security of this country, should be accorded the highest level of importance and the highest level of discussion in this country.  (Quorum formed.)  Mr President,  I was saying that because this debate concerns the security of the nation it is a matter of absolute and maximum importance. It is somewhat ironical, I believe, that to a free people security is a much more difficult thing with which to come to grips than it is to a people of a totalitarian type state, and whether it is fascist or communist is of no moment at all. Somewhat ironically, security seems to be a much more difficult matter about which to convince ourselves and the free people around the world than it is to convince people in a totalitarian nation where security is simply imposed. It is for us as free people to understand the necessity for security and the sort of effort that we must make to give us a reasonable and responsible measure of it.   
Let us consider for a moment the Australian situation. Australia is a remote and massive island continent and, situated as it is, it has probably found itself in the last 10 or 15 years to be more isolated in one sense than ever before in its history. It is isolated in the sense that Great Britain has withdrawn from its position east of Suez. For all the criticism that has been directed at her over the years, Britain has been in real measure a stabilising force in this part of the world and her sudden total withdrawal has increased the responsibility which falls on Australians to look to their own security and to be prepared within reason to defend themselves. Likewise, the economic imperialists- the colonialists, if you like- have also withdrawn from the South East Asian area. I am not saying that that is a bad thing. All I am saying is that it clearly demonstrates to free Australians that they have a greater responsibility than ever before to recognise the sorts of threats and problems that can confront them. They have to recognise that in that situation they are on many occasions likely to be largely by themselves. It is most important that we recognise that fact in terms of Australian security. 
The concept of forward defence has been mentioned once or twice tonight. Indeed, as we find ourselves today in this part of the world, we can see forward defence only in terms of going to the aid of our immediate neighbours. Through the passage of time, and because of the circumstances that have occurred in South-East Asia in particular in the last 10 or 15 years, we have a situation in which forward defence does not make the sort of sense that it did traditionally during the first 50 or 60 years of Australian Federation. During those years Australians fought on many occasions- in Korea, in the Middle East, in western Europe, in South Africa and in other areas- and they did it as a measure of forward defence. They were able to fight for the causes which they believed were right in areas far beyond their homeland and in terms of devastation and destruction I suppose that they were relatively fortunate. Regrettably, today that is not the situation. Today we are not likely to have the privilege- if it is a privilege to fight anywhere and I doubt that it is-to fight in somebody else's backyard. From this point on, if the ravages, destruction and disaster of war apply to Australia they may well apply to Australia's homeland. 
-And in Australia. I go on now to make one or two more references to the White Paper itself because that is the matter we are basically discussing tonight. I believe that the significance of this Paper is purely that it brings out clearly the sort of problems that could confront this country and demonstrates reasonably clearly the sort of moves which we should make to establish a capacity to defend ourselves against those threats. The White Paper forms an ideal background for discussion for all Australians and if the detail of the White Paper, which is sometimes decried as being deficient, makes Australians aware- I repeat the word aware'- of the sort of circumstances that surround this country, if it makes Australians prepared to think about the realities that confront them, it has done a worthwhile job. It may even go so far as to help to create a  form  of national enthusiasm, a national enthusiasm not for war but for an understanding of Australia's circumstances from the point of view of security, defence and our connections with our friends and allies here and in other places around the world. If this Paper through discussion has a capacity to arouse the nation to some sort of enthusiasm to understand and take action in defence and security areas then certainly it has served a worthwhile part. 
It has been made clear in the Budget and in this Paper that financially we are committed to a $12 billion five-year rolling program in defence which is a significant step forward and has within it the basis of a continuing development of our defence capacity. In no other area is there a greater need to have the sort of confidence that comes from knowing that we are looking at our needs, that we are looking where we are going and that we have the deliberation to keep going on that path. This Paper also has made reference to the necessity for review and the necessity for flexibility in a defence and security policy, and how essential that is. I need hardly remind the Senate of the manner in which the world that we live in is shrinking or of the amazing and rapid technological growth of the last 10 or 20 years. Because the world is shrinking through communications and technological change there are likely to confront us problems that we never dreamed of 3 or 4 years ago and consequently the need for review and flexibility is an absolutely basic need in a defence policy. 
The White Paper concerns itself with an equipment program for the near future at least and with establishing the urgency of selfreliance. More than that, it seeks to expose the major problems with which we could be confronted and which we must resist and repel. It draws attention to the fact that we have to look responsibly at what might be called low level attacks. Low level attacks raise the problem of defending ourselves against smugglers and against terrorists of whatever nature; of defending not only our sea lanes but also those seas in which we fish; of defending ourselves and our coastline against disease and the movement of people and animals which have no right to move on to the Australian mainland; and of defending ourselves against other obvious forms of low level attack. They are dangers which we should, must and can have the capacity to repel. 
We must have a capacity to move to the aid of our immediate neighbours for if they were to find themselves in circumstances that were dangerous to them, those circumstances naturally would be dangerous to us. Though we have in large measure moved away from forward defence we must have a relative capacity and a determination to move to the aid of people who are close to us, people who are our neighbours and friends, should they be menaced from some direction. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that unless we are capable of establishing and are determined to establish a responsible defence pattern and a responsible level of selfreliance we cannot expect greater friends and allies and mightier powers to come to our succour should there ever be- and God forbid that there ever will be- a massive conflagration around the world. Surely we as Australians have an absolute responsibility to examine those things that we can do within our financial capacity. We have an absolute responsibility to build the most effective defence capacity with a view to the jobs that it may have to do, not only in connection with low scale attack but also because we must appear to be and in fact be responsible in the eyes of other nations which perhaps believe largely in the same things and attitudes as we do. 
We have to promote and emphasise the necessity to be able to deter an enemy. I must also make the point that to defend this continent, difficult though it be, is in a sense simpler because of its immensity, because it is a vast island continent which would take an immense force of immense capacity to invade. Consequently I suggest that the obvious and natural need for defence in the foreseeable future of this land must lie in a top priority being given to maritime and air strength strike and reconnaissance capacity. We must be looking surely to establish a force that can cut the sea lanes that would supply a potential enemy. We must be looking to a force that is highly mobile, that is well trained, well equipped, a force that can make sure that any potential enemy here would be unable to secure his lines of communication. 
I take the point made so clearly and importantly by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack that difficulties also arise from within Australia because of the immensity of this land, because twothirds of it is arid or semi-arid country, because of a lack of roads and communications. That problem seems to suggest to me that we should be looking to establish around the northern, north-western and western coastlines of Australia a series of bases from which may operate long range patrol type craft with considerable hitting power. We should be looking to have a significant number of bases around that vast coastline- something like 7000 or 8000 miles of it just in that area. We should be looking to have reconnaissance aircraft and strike aircraft with that same capacity so that they are not dependent on crossing 1000 miles of desert but so that they can be supplied by sea and can, in fact, operate from points close to the area which they must survey and defend. 
I draw my remarks to a close by saying once again that I believe this paper on defence, if it has done anything- I am sure it has- has proved to be a responsible approach to an extraordinarily important problem. It has indicated the sort of problems and threats that may confront Australia. It has indicated the most logical way in which those threats can be combated. I hopeperhaps this is more important than anythingthat it has generated amongst Australians a responsible discussion on the defence circumstance of this country, a determination for self-reliance, a determination to reproduce a national pride, a national determination in defence and, hopefully, across the board. 
I rise to speak briefly in this most important debate to express my determination to support the Bill for a referendum on simultaneous elections for the House of Representatives and half the Senate. Before I present the arguments for and against which have brought me to this decision, I shall comment on one or two things that were said by  Senator Harradine  earlier today. He suggested that one of the main problems was that this Bill was being rushed through the Parliament and that the people would not have an opportunity properly to air and consider the basic arguments for and against the proposal. I would agree that if that were so it would be a bad thing, but quite clearly there will be about 3 months in which this country can debate the cases for and against. So the people when they cast their view on the referendum certainly will have had an opportunity to consider all the matters referable to it, both for and against. 

 Senator Harradine also suggested that it is not for the Government to change the ground rules. Of course it is not for the Government to change the ground rules and in this instance it does not intend to change them. All the Government proposes to do is to carry out an instruction from the Constitutional Convention to see whether the people are interested in changing the ground rules. It is as simple and direct as that. I think it is somewhat mischievous to suggest, as though it were the fact, that it is the Government which seeks to change the ground rules. Following the same line of logic, if one can call it that,  Senator Harradine  went on to say that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had concocted the referendum. That is not true either. I presume that it was the Constitutional Convention which suggested that the referendum be placed before the Australian people; it was not the Australian Prime Minister. In fact, if the Convention, which was a cross-section of virtually all the governmentslocal, state and Federal- had come down with a view that was in any way different from the view presented by the Government and the Opposition this proposal would never have arisen. So it cannot reasonably and honestly be said that the Australian Prime Minister concocted this referendum. 
I abhor the measure of hysteria and emotion which I have seen in this debate from time to time from honourable senators on both sides. This is not something in which emotion, hysteria and invective should have any place at all and I thought it was a great shame that at the beginning of this debate one who has so much to contribute to this chamber as has  Senator James  McClelland should have seen fit to spend most of his 20 minutes, or whatever time it was that he spoke for, on nothing more or less than a personal attack on the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers).  I do not believe that it did  Senator James  McClelland justice. I am sure it did not do the Opposition justice because Australians have indicated on many occasions that they are not impressed with the hysterical, emotional approach. They are not impressed by people who say 'get out into the streets'. They are not impressed by people who take an unrealistic view about the things which are really a threat to democracy. The real threat to democracy is when Australians become subject to emotion and not reason, and I hope that in the months that precede the vote on these referendums there will be an unemotional and reasonable approach to the problems which confront the people over their most important constitution. 
On balance and having looked as carefully as I can at least at some of the reasons for and against this proposition I have come down in support of it for a number of reasons. For instance, I am mindful that similar but not identical propositions were put to the people once before, but they had a different line through them. If we are to examine anything which occurred at an earlier time surely we have to examine it in the context and the circumstances of the time. So I do not think that the constant reference to and analysis of what happened when these somewhat similar but certainly not identical propositions were put to the people is of importance at the present time. There is in this country another very great danger to democracy, and I mention this only because  Senator James  McClelland indicated his great fear for democracy here. In my view another enormous threat to democracy lies in the extraordinary and large emotional ideological gap which separates Australians and we of this chamber must do all we can, inside and outside it, to lessen that gap and to lessen the use of emotion in place of reason. It is of extreme importance that Australians make their decision on a reasonable and well-informed basis. There is every reason for having a case for and against the proposition and there is every reasonindeed, it is essential- why every Australian should look at the whole picture before deciding. 
As I looked at the cases for and against I came to a decision. In considering the case for simultaneous elections it seemed to me that in some sense it was giving to the House of Representatives a capacity which this chamber already has, and I trust always will have, and there is no threat to the power that this chamber has. Quite clearly the obvious advantage in the proposition lies in the fact that Australians will be confronted with fewer elections and consequently less cost. These may not be massive reasons but they are important reasons, and in a country where the Parliament lasts for only 3 years they are reasons of much more significance than they would be in other democracies around the world. Perhaps the answer is not simultaneous elections but an extra year in the life of the Parliament, although I suggest that in the present circumstances fewer elections and less cost are attractive reasons. 
The other reason why I am in favour of this Bill is that it reflects the clear indication of the Constitutional Convention that this proposition, having been agreed to in large measure by that Convention, should be put to the people. I also believe that the proposal for simultaneous elections in this Bill does not contain within it any real and significant reduction of the power of the Senate. If it did I would be diametrically opposed to it. I do not believe it contains any direct reduction in the power of the Senate. The power of the Senate over money Bills, over Supply, the power that is held by Senate committees, is not under threat. 
The powers of the Senate will remain basically as they are. Indeed, only half the Senate will be elected every 3 years. Consequently the Senate will not be swamped one way or the other. Indeed, when an election is held for the Senate simultaneously with an election for the House of Representatives it may be that the Senate election would indicate a slide if there were a slide one way or the other in the House of Representatives election. But it may also be- I think there is an equally strong argument to suggest this-that there would not be a similar slide because Australians have grown to value the Senate as a second House and as their only brake on the House of legislature. Consequently they may be loath to go around the bend, as it were, in both Houses at the one time. So it could be that a measure of stability would be retained. 
The argument against this proposition is suggested only if there is a real possibility of diminution in the power of the Senate. Not only do I believe in the importance of the Senate but I also believe that in recent years Australians have come to recognise the real significance of the 
Senate in the Australian parliamentary scene. If I feel that there would be a denigration of the power of this House, of its capacity to act as a responsible House of review, I certainly would not be supporting this sort of legislation. After all, the legislation we support here today merely proposes that the Australian people be given an opportunity to decide at a poll on certain proposed changes to the Constitution. If there is no increased threat to the significance and power of the Senate, to me it seems on balance that there is a good proposition that simultaneous elections may have more advantages than disadvantages. The proposal has the capacity to reduce elections in our community, which would be popular and good from a point of view of competent government. 
Separate elections for the Senate have been supported. Indeed there is reasonable support for them on the grounds that they allow the people to make judgments on a government. The people can say that a government is doing well or equally they can say that it is not doing well. That may or may not be the case. The people could well take a Senate election as one that does not really matter all that much, that will not be significant in the immediate future government of the country. They may not take the sort of serious view that they should, and mostly do, take. The simultaneous elections that occurred in 1974 and 1975 seem to lend emphasis to that view. Honourable senators will recall that in 1974 the Australian people returned the Whitlam Government in the House of Representatives and in a simultaneous election for the whole of the Senate they failed to give  Mr Whitlam  control of the Senate. I thought that was not only evidence of the intelligence of the Australian electorate but also justification of the view that one election for one House will not necessarily be a mirror image of an election for the other House. 
As time is precious I conclude my remarks by saying that I believe, on balance, that this legislation should be supported and that what it actually does is to throw the ball into the court of the electors of Australia. On them will be an immense responsibility. I am not one who assumes or in any way would believe that the electors would have a bar of frivolous elections. If any honourable senator can imagine an election called by the House of Representatives involving half the Senate and then 6 or 9 months later the calling of another election being acceptable to the Australian electorate his imagination goes further afield than mine and I trust that his imagination is wrong. I support the Bill. 
I rise to support the Address-in-Reply to the Speech which  Her  Majesty the Queen delivered a couple of days ago in opening this session of Parliament. I do so with a measure of pride. I believe that it is an opportunity for the members of this chamber to look at where this country is going, to identify the problems and to seek and demonstrate the solutions. I was a little disappointed by the somewhat gloomy story that  Senator Colston  told for some 30 minutes or so in which he quite clearly identified the enormous problems that the socialist government so clearly created in this country during its 3 years of office. He did not suggest in any way any of the many and necessary solutions. So, from that point of view, it was somewhat disappointing to see that amount of time being devoted to identifying the problems that he and the Opposition that he now represents successfully brought about. 
Before continuing my remarks in this debate I should like to add my congratulations to the new member of this chamber-  Senator Lewis  from Victoria, who was so correctly and properly appointed by the Victorian Parliament- on the occasion of his maiden speech. I believe that it was a speech the brevity of which would do us all a great deal of good if we were to take some notice of it from time to time. Indeed, besides its brevity, it had in the manner of its presentation and its material a very worthwhile contribution to make to this debate. My only regret was that, although  Senator Lewis  undoubtedly would have ultimately become a member of this chamber, he is here on this occasion because of the untimely death of  Senator Ivor  Greenwooda member of this chamber who must surely be ranked among the most elegant men in mind and manner ever to have graced the Australian Senate. 
I was pleased to note  Senator Lewis's  representation on behalf of primary industry. He identified some of the problems of primary industry. Certainly he identified the basic importance and character of primary industry in relation to the total Australian economy. I want to talk very briefly on the 3 traditional areas of primary industry in this country. Those 3 basic areas of primary industry are the areas of wool, wheat and beef production. As  Senator Lewis  said, primary industry in this country is basic to the whole social and economic development of our community. In the realm of primary industry itself I want to make the point this afternoon that I believe that the development and strength of the Australian wool industry is just as basic to the absolute balance of primary industry itself as primary industry is basic to the balance of the Australian economy. 
It is pertinent to note that the areas of wheat and beef production figure largely in the Australian scene; yet only some 1 5 per cent of the beef and wheat produced in the world ever enters into international trade. In the Australian context we have to find a market in those 2 areas for some 65 per cent of our total production. Consequently the tiniest variations in relation to that 1 5 per cent of the international trade that is referable to beef and wheat have quite gigantic effects on the market for those products in the Australian economy. On the other hand, generally speaking wool finds for itself without much difficulty a market overseas for 95 per cent of its production. But the enormous difference and the reason why I believe it is basic to the balance of primary industry in this country is that in the area of wool we produce the most and the best in the world. Consequently it is an item which has real and proper significance to us and which must be related to the overall balance of primary industry. 
I think it is worth noting something of the reaction that occurred in relation to the somewhat desperate decline in wool prices in the late 1 960s and early 1970s. Certain things happened as a result of that decline. In the first place there was an immense increase in the production of wheat, culminating in 1968 in the greatest production on record in Australia. That record production here was matched by massive production around the world and was followed by a quota system in the Australian wheat industry which operated for only a short time. 
The other and perhaps even more significant and disastrous result of the problems in the wool industry in the late 1960s and early 1970s was an almost frantic transfer of emphasis from wool production to beef production, almost willy-nilly. There was a measure of panic, with people selling merino stock for 50c a head and buying cattle at $120 a head. Perhaps this was the beginning of the real imbalance which developed, and naturally we are now desperately trying to return balance to primary industry. The desperate move from wool to beef in this country not only was an expensive exercise but also immediately brought a deterioration in the quality of Australian stock. That was another negative in this operation. Careless breeding and the use of unsuitable land were corollaries of the move from sheep to cattle in the early 1970s. These things were highlighted and increased by the boom in cattle prices in 1973 and 1974. Since that time the industry has been in a somewhat disastrous state and it is urgently trying to find a solution to its problems. These are matters of maximum concern to this Government. 
What were the results of these extreme movements in prices, whether high or low, in rural enterprise and rural industry, and how have they been combated? The wheat industry saw the problem many years ago. More than 30 years ago it was able to form a stabilisation marketing scheme, although not without a prelude of many years of trauma. The Australian Wheat Board has been a most successful operator ever since those days. The wool industry, after incessant debate for 20 years, in circumstances of disaster found a measure of unity between producer organisations and, in conjunction with the government of those days, the Liberal-Country Party Government of 1970, brought into being the Australian Wool Commission which was the prelude to the Australian Wool Corporation. So once again a large stabilising marketing corporation was developed which has been of extreme value to the wool industry and consequently to the balance of Australian primary industry. 
Years of debate on the wool issue finally resulted in acceptance of the basic recommendations of the Australian Wool Industry Conference and the establishment of the Corporation. It brought about acceptance and implementation of the flexible reserve price system in the market place and acceptance and implementation of a principle which meant that stockpiles were part and parcel of successful marketing operations; that they were not something to be avoided like the plague but were something which had a real part to play in a proper supply control situation. It is my view that the final and total recommendations of the Australian Wool Corporation should be implemented as soon as is humanly possible, for in them probably lies the ultimate salvation of this industry and with it a return to balance and strength across the whole canvas of Australian primary production. 
The beef industry is in a desperate situation. Clearly there is a great and urgent need for a measure of stabilised and controlled marketing. However, this is a much more difficult problem in beef production than it is in grain production or wool production, or the production of fibres across the board. It is more difficult because- the beef industry seems to be more susceptible to market variations around the world than almost any other industry. Evidence of that is very clear in that only a couple of years ago beef exports to Japan fell from 100 000 tonnes to 8000 tonnes in something less than 12 months. Stockpiling and storage in the beef industry is a difficult problem. Beef is a product that clearly is perishable, and solutions are difficult to find. The vagaries of climate as well as prices around the world have a significant bearing on any measure which aims in some way to control the supply and the price of this product. 
I believe, however, that a couple of things need to form part of any solution to the problems of the beef industry. In the first place I believe that a real measure of producer agreement has to be found. This was found in the wheat industry and the wool industry and I believe that it is necessary in the beef industry. Over and above that there has to be effective implementation of some sort of classification and grading system in the marketing of beef, just as it was necessary for producers, manufacturers and retailers in the wool industry to recognise the value of scientific or objective measurement as a proper means of selling wool. So it is my belief that for the survival of the major areas of primary production, and, indeed, the survival of the small and medium size businesses in commerce and industry around Australia, it is necessary for individual's engaged in primary production to get behind a massive and identifiable corporation that can and will successfully promote research and sell their product. Probably in that sort of circumstance alone lies the ultimate survival of the industries that have more to contribute, and probably have a greater potential, than any other section of the Australian economy. 
In addition to the necessity for marketing and research corporations, a requirement is the abolition of estate duty. I shall make a few remarks on that matter towards the conclusion of my speech. In the meantime, I believe that it would be unfortunate if I did not use this occasion to make one or two observations about the constitutional monarchy, the strength of the constitutional monarchy, what it stands for and what it means to us. It is seldom that we have the honour of having the British and Australian Monarch to open a session of this Parliament. That has happened this week. So we must ask ourselves: What is the significance of the monarchy in the constitutional setup of Australia? It is significant indeed, for gone are the struggles between church and state and gone, one would hope, are the struggles between the Executive, the Monarch and the Parliament. We have gone a long way in the development of constitutional monarchy in the Australian scene. It has contributed a great deal. It has been an evolutionary and not a revolutionary process. Towards the end of 1975 we saw a dangerous circumstance. I believe there was a possibility that the Executive would have attempted- perhaps it did- to operate without the word or say-so of the Parliament. This would have been a tragedy. 
The presence of the monarch in our country, particularly here in the Parliament, has seen arise a little man as a promoter. He is a somewhat little known author- a quite undistinguished one-time editor of a small university pamphlet- strutting across the stage as the promoter of a republic. I do not think this was much more than an unmannerly exercise. I do not think it has had a great effect on the Australian people except perhaps to reveal the promoter as somewhat pathetic. When ultimately asked the question, 'what does the republic and the concept of a  president  really have which you think is good and which makes it so essential?', his answer was that he really did not know whether it would be better or worse than a constitutional monarchy but he supposed we should try it. That seems to be a pathetic sort of logic from one who would assume unto himself the qualities of an academic, whatever they may be. 
The constitutional monarch in the Australian context stands as a symbol of unity and as a symbol of the strength of a family. As  Senator Tehan  and others have said in this debate, the family unit is, hopefully, still the basic unit of the Australian society. The monarchy as we see it in the constitutional circumstance is removed from high pressure politics and, consequently, it has an enormous amount to commend it over the sort of presidential circumstance which is totally associated with an emotional, political era, sense and atmosphere. I believe that the constitutional monarchy as we have seen it develop through British countries and in Australia is something which we should be loath to forsake. It has shown a great capacity to remain as a relatively non-political symbol in which peoples of all sorts of beliefs and attitudes can find a measure of agreement and unity. It is a symbol which has so much in its favour over the high pressure, emotional type of presidential republican circumstance and we as Australians should tend to be proud of the monarchy and of its evolutionary circumstance. We should not seek to copy some other institution. 
The Queen's Speech was criticised by one or two honourable senators. I recall  Senator Grimes  not really criticising the matter in the speech but criticising it because it was brief. Of-course it was brief. That is one of the advantages which it has over the speech I am making at the moment. Basically, it was brief because it was an outline of a continuing policy. It was an outline of a policy which, in 3 years or so, hopes to correct some of the enormous problems which arose in Australia in the 3 years of socialist experiment. There have been a number of references to specific items in the Queen's Speech. Among many other things it emphasised the Government's determination to improve industrial relations. I suppose there could be no more significant area to which all of us should direct our efforts than industrial relations. In Australia we have an enormous potential. We will never reach that potential unless we are prepared as a total community to seek it out, unless we get back to a circumstance where initiative does reap a reward and where there is some sort of privilege for a measure of thrift. Australians must discuss intelligently rather than sneer at such things as profit in the community. In some sections of the media it is popular to sneer at the word 'profit' as if it is something foul. Yet whether it is an individual, a company or a State, without profit there will be no investment, no development, no productivity and no jobs. So all of us have to be adult enough to understand and admit that profit is an essential part of our community. 
I make very brief mention of the Government's continuing efforts in the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I believe its efforts are indicative of a real measure of responsibility. For the first time in some three or four years the Government has seen fit to go into the Arbitration Commission and argue a case which is relative to the capacity of an economy to pay. Quite clearly, the son of massive wage hike which has characterised 3 years of  Mr Whitlam  's Government has been the most significant contributor to the basic problems of inflation and unemployment which confront us today.  Mr Whitlam,  in his 3 years in office, did not see fit to accept the responsibility of referring to the Arbitration Commission the problems of the capacity in an economy to pay. The tying of one's self totally to the consumer price index has considerable shortcomings. I instance only one circumstance. The consumer price index can move quite dramatically because of a strong movement in one or two items. But this takes no account of the change in demand which may well and which normally does follow an extreme increase in the price of any specific item. So the CPI is not an infallible index which one can simply follow in a mechanical process and solve all the problems relating to wages. I think it is pertinent that I should quote the views expressed by the present Leader of the Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam. It is significant to recall these words. Among other things, in January 1975  Mr Whitlam  stated: 
The other thing that I wanted to say in this connection is the cause of unemployment now, and it is, frankly, the excessive wage increases. It's always unpalatable of course for any Labor leader or any Labor member to say anything about wages and salaries about organised labour because as in Britain and New Zealand there are institutional affiliations between the Labor Party and the employees' organisations. But one has got to be frank in these facts. 
There is no point in going over the history of inflation. I don't say that the inflation at the time that we came in or even in 1973 was due- let alone primarily due- to wage increases and claims. But it is indubitably primarily and almost solely due to wage increases and claims today. 
He went on further: 
The fact is that wage claims in the last 12 months have so greatly reduced the profitability of employers that they have ceased to employ as many as they used to employ. Now this is the fact. You can't make people employ. And while things are as unprofitable as they are now: That is as long as wage and salary claims take up so much of the take and reduce profits so much as they are, then there is going to be great unemployment in Australia. 
That, amongst a lot of other wise things which he said on that occasion, was a statement by the present Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam.  He certainly acknowledged that the problem regarding wages and salaries is a contributor to inflation and unemployment, but he did not do as this Government is desperately trying to do and have the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission recognised as the final determiner of wages and salaries. 
Earlier in my speech I said that I would refer to the other area of primary industry that needed swift attention. I indicated that in my view the development of marketing corporations of massive capacity was one move which would see the survival and growth of the family farm, the small unit and the small business in Australia. However, I want to refer now to the need to abolish estate duty as soon as possible, and that may well be this year. I admit and accept that the Liberal and National Country Parties in the late 1960s and even last year made contributions to the lowering' of the burden of estate duty but I believe that the time has come for its abolition. It is important to recall that some 96 per cent of primary industry in Australia is in the hands of family and small company operations. On a productivity per capita basis the Australian farming community is the most efficient in the world. Farming is an occupation which is confronted with great difficulty. It is subject to the vagaries of climate and market. 
In closing my remarks I call the Senate's attention to the problems associated with estate duty and state why I believe it is time for its total abolition. I remind the Senate that federal estate duty produces something less than 0.39 per cent of total revenue; it is twice as expensive to collect as any other form of taxation; it has not had its rates changed in the 40-odd years it has been in existence; and six per cent of taxpayers provide between 35 per cent and 40 per cent of the duty that is collected. The tax is nothing more or less than one which produces the dismemberment of economic units, a dismemberment which this or any other country can ill afford. 
As I said earlier, this matter concerns mainly the family units. In fact, 96 per cent of Australian primary industry is conducted by the family unit or is a family operation. So anything which tends to destroy these economic units is something which we should seriously consider abolishing. A further problem is created because of the non liquid nature of the assets involved and this, as well as other reasons, drives young people away from the land, and with them go the compounded knowledge of generations. This is a loss of a national asset and on that ground also we should consider the total abolition of this duty. 
Estate duty tends to force people as they grow older to retain a significant amount of their assets in a relatively liquid form which denies development investment in the long term and job opportunities. This will be very clearly evidenced by the results of the courageous action of the Government of Queensland in abolishing this duty. Already we are seeing significant moves of investment capital and job opportunities from the southern areas of Australia to Queensland. The abolition of estate duty and the establishment of marketing corporations are significant and necessary prerequisites for the continuing development of primary industry, the family farm and the small business operation in Australia. I have pleasure in supporting the motion before us. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mulvihill)  adjourned. 
The Senate is debating a paper on foreign affairs. I believe that this is an opportunity for this Parliament and particularly this chamber today to become aware of the major problems that confront this nation in relation to the rest of the world. The discussion should, and must I believe, be a constructive one. I suppose in a discussion on foreign affairs, as in the discussion that occurred some time ago on defence, there has to be ultimately- and the sooner the better- a real measure of agreement between the major entities on the Australian political scene. 
I must say that I was in no small measure delighted to listen not only to the rhetoric of  Senator Wheeldon  but also to his arguments which were in many cases, as indeed were those of  Senator Wriedt,  somewhat similar to the views, policies and attitudes that are being promoted in foreign affairs by today's Government. If indeed we are observing, at least in that field, a closing of the gap within this country, our capacity to serve the type of role that we should and must serve in our immediate region and the world is becoming greater and greater. 
I have said before- and I believe it still- that one of the enormous problems that confront the real development and the real contribution of Australia in the world is the sort of ideological gap which has developed among the major political entities. It is the responsibility of all Australians to do everything in their power to attempt to close that gap. If there is an area of the American political circumstance of which we should perhaps have a measure of envy, it is, I believe, that in the American scene there seems to be much lesser a difference between the basic and major parties in their political area. Because of this factor, there is a measure of stability, strength and permanence which we desperately need in this country and which, consequently, the rest of the world desperately needs, too. 

 Senator Wheeldon mentioned that he thought that he saw some changes in our attitudes to foreign affairs. Whilst I believe our policies basically are as they have been stated over some considerable period, certainly as time goes by there is a moderation, a changing or a moulding of attitudes. Indeed, history is really the record of changing attitudes by any number of countries throughout the world. So, I do not think there is any great cause for alarm if indeed in the circumstances which arise from month to month and year to year people are prepared and able to make a responsible change in attitude or in emphasis on any aspect. 
There was considerable emphasis in  Senator Wheeldon  's remarks on the question of human rights. In this area, I do not believe that he or any of us would find in this country and in many other countries much opposition to the suggestion that human rights must be promoted wherever they are threatened. If there is an area of difference it would seem to me, at least as an individual and perhaps I would assume also as a member of a Government party, it is a shame that human rights should have to be promoted by individual nations; this should be the province of the United Nations. To imagine that we can have the conception of the United Nations which is a most important one to institute and implement some form of real international law and yet have within that body no power to implement the law is perhaps the greatest tragedy of this century. If human rights are to be adopted around the world I believe it is the responsibility of appropriate bodies within the United Nations to safeguard those human rights rather than the responsibility of any number of individual nations acting, in many cases, for themselves. I just make that comment in passing. 
The Senate has a very deep involvement in foreign affairs. It is pertinent to note that in very recent times the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has investigated and reported on the Vietnamese refugee situation, is investigating and about to report on the Middle East, and has investigated and reported on the Indian Ocean. It may well look to the South Pacific, another region extremely close to this continent and of great importance to us, for another investigation and report on developments there. 
The foreign policy of Australia, as I see it, has to be referable in some measure to the social and economic development of this country and its capacity and determination to defend itself. Only if we have a continuing and developing economic and social policy and only if we have a realistic and responsible view regarding our own defence can we be of real value in the context of the immediate region in which we live and the world in general. Foreign policy, as we look at it today, in some real measure is controlled by what I believe can be described as a shrinking world. Never in the history of mankind has our capacity to communicate with various other people been as rapid and as complete as it is today. On the surface that may well mean, and indeed could mean, that we are in a dangerous position. There may be a tendency for nations or individuals to act on the spur of the moment because of the sheer speed of communications. The sheer speed of revelation may well bring reckless immediate reaction. Yet if we look beyond that circumstance it is my belief that the communications which have brought about this shrinking world have in themselves a capacity to enable nations to take their time. Communication being what it is, any problem that arises does not call for an impromptu or off the top of the head solution. Today as never before the capacity of nations to talk to each other, not over a period of 3 months, 6 months or even annually but from day to day and hour to hour, is so great that the capacity of nations to understand each other, to live in peace and to promote peace should be- mark you, should be- greater than at any time in this century. 
I turn aside for a moment to comment on the fact that there has been a shift in the emphasis on the conflict between the super powers. For many years that conflict has been fairly direct. The super powers basically have been concerned one with the other. I believe that in very recent times that emphasis has been changing. Again, on the surface, it may be considered that that is a good thing yet there are considerable dangers inherent in that situation. I have in mind the sort of circumstance that is developing, one that is relevant in no small measure to the African situation and to the so-called liberation of peoples around the world. If liberation is to be the result of infiltration, if liberation is going to be the result of the promotion of a particular super power in an under-developed area, that in itself has within it the essence of a new and perhaps more dangerous imperialism. Could we be moving from the economic imperialism of the 19th century and probably the first half of the 20th century? Could we be in danger of moving from that sort of economic imperialism to a political imperialism? I hope not. As the emphasis of the super powers, one to the other, tends to change I hope that they do not become involved in circumstances in which a super power promotes a set of circumstances in some other part of the world through the use of a third or fourth party. This could bring about a chain reaction which would be a disaster on a large scale. In fact it could bring about a circumstance whereby one form of suppression was supplanted by another. It could bring about a situation in which blacks will suppress blacks, whites will suppress whites, and so on around the world. Surely it should be our objective to steer away from such a situation. There is a real measure of possibility of this happening by means of this relatively new trend in which there is. the promotion of a particular developing nation or particular ideology, on the grounds of liberation, through third and fourth parties. 
I want to refer in passing to the energy crisis that has confronted the world, particularly in the last five or six years. It might be thought that it is strange to talk of an energy crisis when we are talking about foreign affairs. However, I am of the opinion that the energy crisis that came to a peak in 1 973 after the affluence of the 1 950s and 1 960s, through the extreme increase in the price of oil by the relatively few producers who control that product, caused a massive downturn in overall economic standards around the world. It is my view that the energy crisis that occurred in those years, and which continues today in no small measure, is going to react unfavourably towards the nations of the Third World and the developing world unless we ourselves react. We could be confronted with a situation in which scarce energy resources require more and more involvement on the part of the developed or Western type world, call it what you will. Therefore it is my view that in the longer term, certainly in the next 20 years or 25 years, it may be necessary to promote, under proper supervision, the development of nuclear energy- something which has been going on already for over 20 years- as an alternative to the traditional energy derived from oil and coal. Under proper supervision nuclear energy may enable a certain conservation of oil, coal and other traditional sources of energy. If this were to happen, together with the fairly clearly indicated relative cheapness of nuclear energy, it would involve an increase in the opportunities available to the developing third world. It would raise the possibility that their economies, in sad straits as a result of the energy crisis of the 1973 period, could well start to rise out of that morass. 
I believe that foreign policy has to be seen- the paper we are discussing today emphasises this point- in relation to a continuing and extended period of time. We have to grow beyond the circumstances where we are continually finding what we believe may be instant solutions to problems. I believe the emphasis of this paper clearly indicates the necessity for this Government and for the Australian people to look at foreign policy over an extended period. Perhaps there has been too much concern with immediate problems and with immediate solutions. It is my belief that from this time on at least we will transfer our attitudes to continuing attitudes, and to the development of circumstances which have to be viewed in the context of perhaps 20 years, 50 years or even longer. The relationship of this country with Japan, with the United States of America and with the European Economic Community is of extreme importance. The whole of our foreign policy is devoted, as a base, towards the continuing development of that relationship. Realistically, unless there is a proper measure of understanding and co-operation among those great Western type economies and societies, the total capacity around the world to develop becomes diminished by an enormous degree. 
In recent times we have made many efforts to understand and to trade with Japan to the best of our capacity and in such a measure that we will see a proper reciprocal nature in that trade. We have developed the Australia-Japan Foundation. We have made a number of agreements. We have recently arrived at the decision between our 2 countries that Japan will maintain the importation of coal and iron in the coming year at the same level as in 1976. We have found that Japan has been a continuing market for Australian wool and wheat. We have had enormous problems in the meat field. Rather ironically, I suppose, the problems there were in no small way related to the energy crisis to which I referred a short while ago. The indications are that an understanding between the 2 countries in trade and commodities in general is growing. The outlook is considerably better today than it has been in the past few years during which time Japan's economy has been in an extremely hazardous situation. 
The United States of America, of course, is basic in some real measure to the security of Australia. I believe that its strength and its leadership have a very real part to play in the general strength and stability of a developing world. We will retain with the United States of America the sort of co-operation and communication which it has always been our intention to have. The European Economic Community has developed to quite a massive degree. Part of the most important international negotiations, from the point of view of this country, in the immediate future must surely relate to our ability to come to a proper understanding in relation to trade with the European Economic Community. I believe that already we are importing more from the EEC than from anywhere else. The European Economic Community's greatest problem, as it concerns us, is the result or corollary of its own agricultural policy. In this area continuing effort must be and certainly will be made to arrive at a circumstance where there is something of a real flow in both directions. 
In respect to China we have reached a point where we clearly have a considerable trading relationship. I believe we have also reached a point of maturity where Australia's view of China's attitudes to nuclear testing and explosions is clearly understood. We do have different attitudes and values. I believe the Chinese people are understanding of our attitudes and of the differences which occur. This is the sort of mature circumstance which will ultimately see the survival of this world rather than its ultimate destruction. We can, of course, contribute greatly to China with our technological capacity, particularly in the field of agriculture and in arid and semi-arid agriculture. There is always a great deal of talk, and sometimes a great deal of emotion, when we speak of our relations with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I should have said at an earlier point that I believe that one of the significant things which may well be happening is that international relations will be more and more controlled- I hope that internal relations may likewise be more and more controlled- by reason and not by emotion because with the passage of time the sort of indentation which has been made on relationships with emotion being the leading force has been quite tragic indeed. 
In relation to the Soviet Union, while clearly we have some basic philosophical differences- as far as I can see we are likely to retain those philosophical differences- at least we can and must talk and we must recognise our points of view. We must show a measure of real responsibility. I come to a point where, in some measure, I disagree with  Senator Wheeldon.  In the context of the Soviet Union I come to a brief thought and commentary on the Australian circumstance in the Indian Ocean. When  President  Carter expressed his desire that the Indian Ocean should become a demilitarised zone, there was an immediate reaction. It was suggested that in some measure this was a denigration ofthe policies which we had followed and which were based on establishing within that zone a matching presence at the lowest possible level. I think that probably in the next few weeks and months it will become quite obvious that  President  Carter has really not departed very far from the circumstances which we have promoted after long and considered investigation. Surely if we are to have in the Indian Ocean a demilitarised zone, a zone of peace- call it what you will- a prelude to that must be our capacity to have a matching presence but at a low and continually lowering level. That is the objective of this Government. The objective behind Diego Garcia was merely that it be the rough equivalent of the quite substantial Russian facility at Berbera. 
From time to time we have been condemned for the establishment and development of the naval base at Cockburn Sound, but surely that cannot be viewed in the context of confrontation in the Indian Ocean. Surely, as a nation we have every right and the responsibility to establish the sort of naval facilities on our west coast, north coast, east coast or wherever which will enable us as a responsible democratic society to look after our own mainland, to guard the Australian continent. That is the first objective of an Australian defence plan and the developments at Cockburn Sound and other places around our coastline must be viewed not as elements of confrontation or of massive militarisation of the Indian Ocean but in the context of Australian continental defence and our right and responsibility to defend our trade lines and to see that incursions into this country are made so difficult that they will not be attempted. That is the significance of Australian involvement in and development of facilities at Cockburn Sound and hopefully such facilities will be established at many points around the Australian coastline. 
I believe it is important that I remark on the Australian involvement with the countries in the Association of South East Asian Nations. Those countries- Indonesia, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia and the Philippines- in the south east Asian region represent at present a real measure of stability, a measure of stability infinitely greater than has been observable in the region for many years. It is important that Australia seek to involve itself in continuing and increasing social and economic co-operation and planning with those south east Asian countries which, hopefully, v/ill be added to. 
There are many things that one could say about foreign policy and as we move across from South Africa, through the Indian Ocean and the south east Asian region, we come to the area on the east of Australia, the South Pacific. It is an area where, apart from tourism and fishing, the nations are in a large sense not viable. It is an area in which we are involved and it is our duty to make sure that the proper measure of aid is given to enable those nations, in many instances small nations, not only to survive but also ultimately to become either individually or regionally viable. That is the interest which Australia has in the South Pacific, an interest that is instanced by the recent determination of the Government to provide under a 3-year rolling scheme some $60m in aid to South Pacific countries, an increase of some 400 per cent on Australian involvement in the area previously. 
I close my remarks, having made a few references to matters which I believe are important to foreign affairs and foreign policies. If it is true, and I in some measure think it may be, that there is something of a consolidation of Australian views on foreign policy, then we are moving in the right direction. We are moving in a direction which will develop for Australia the capacity to serve as it should serve, as an affluent nation, a nation of vast resources, in our immediate region and around the world. I support the paper. I believe it is important that it be widely discussed and understood. 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
For a number of reasons that I hope to clarify in the next few minutes, I do not support the proposition that is before the Senate. I preface my remarks by saying that the circumstances of East Timor are such as would be regretted by all Australians and indeed by a wide range of people in the world. The matter that really concerns us, the matter with which we have to concern ourselves, is the practicability of doing what is proposed. It is our view that it is very likely that this sort of exercise will develop a great measure of friction, a great measure of charge and counter charge. It will be inconclusive in the long term and will therefore generate strain between ourselves and our Indonesian neighbours and those people who are closely related to Indonesia in the context of South East Asia. It will also increase the strains and the problems in those areas where we can ill afford to have such an increase. In a large measure, it may well be detrimental to the people we want to help. It may well be detrimental to the East Timorese from the point of view of their capacity to move as refugees to this or to other countries. It may also be detrimental from the point of view of our having access to the sort of information we may need. 
Looking at it as quietly as we can, I suppose that we could contribute more to this unfortunate situation by trying to develop an atmosphere in which the Indonesians themselves will talk with us and with others and gradually come to the point where there is a revelation of what has been occurring and a determination to overcome the problems of the past. The problems of the past are certainly there, but we cannot fix them in the context of the past. All we can do is seek to establish a relationship with our major partners both in this part of the world and beyond it in which the sort of circumstances which have led to this debate do not occur in the future. 
During his talk to us this evening  Senator Wheeldon  asked the question: What will happen to Australian aid to East Timor? That was a proposition put by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers),  and  Senator Wheeldon  implied that nothing would happen to Australian aid to Timor. That is a proposition that I hope is true, but I do not think it will bear the test of reality. As tensions increase and as charge and counter charge are made between any two countries the probability of aid reaching those who need it must become less to a marked degree. I believe that that is the situation. Conceivably, we could be jeopardising a measure of aid and a measure of understanding between the Indonesians and ourselves over this whole problem.  Senator Wheeldon  also made something of the fact that Timor is so close to Australia, that it is much closer to Australia than  Senator Wheeldon  is to parts of his massive and mighty electorate of Western Australia, and of course that is so. He went on to say that because of its proximity, Timor was enormously important to Australia. I would agree with that, but surely we have to look at Timor in the context of the whole South East Asian world, in the context of Australia's defensive situation, and in the context of Australia's economic, political and social relationships with the South East Asian countries in particular. Of course Timor is important because of its proximity to Australia, but the rest of the South East Asian world is almost as close and we have to make sure that an emphasis on one specific item in that part of the world is not going to disturb in any measure the strength and certainty of our relationships over the much wider field. 
I make the point that the position of this Government on the East Timorese tragedy has been consistent for a long time. It has been as consistent as a government as it was in Opposition, and it is a matter of some regret to me to find, as I read it, that the position of the Opposition on the same problem seems to have changed from the one it took when it was in government. It seems to me, as far as I can ascertain, that there was considered to have been a tacit approval by  Mr Whitlam  when he was the Prime Minister of this country of the propositions put by the Indonesians in relation to East Timor. 
-The point I am making is that this was the attitude of  Mr Whitlam  and the Labor Party when they were the government. Now that they are in Opposition, that tacit agreement and all that it meant seems to have changed. Whether or not there is a different emphasis in their approach to foreign affairs and whether or not it is relevant to different personalities is not for me to judge. But I make the point in passing that certainly there has been an apparent change in the attitude of the same people in Opposition from the attitude they promoted when they were in government. 
It is true, surely, that the Portuguese, as colonialists in East Timor, as far back as September 1974 had made it quite clear that they were unable and unwilling to take the responsibility they should have been prepared to take in the development and the security of their territory. So the withdrawal of the Portuguese and the revolution in their own country as well as in Timor was part of the context of the problem as far back as September 1944. It must have been quite clear to the Government in those days that the sort of situation which developed was a real possibility. Indeed, it must have been clear that it was a probability. I understand that the then Government took the view that East Timor as an entity had little hope of achieving any form of viability. A suggestion was made that if East Timor was not going to be economically viable there was not much place for it. I am not suggesting that that is a reasonable and responsible attitude, but it was certainly an attitude which prevailed over a very long time, and it is the sort of attitude which is extremely damaging to so many of the small communities around the world. I do not believe that it is the sort of attitude we should promote, and it could well be that in the long term East Timor's viability, if you like, and that is a strange word, would be much more substantial if it were part of a larger combination of countries or units which were determined and able to develop East Timor to the extent to which it is capable of being developed. In other words, East Timor might have a greater possibility of survival and development if it were not left as an isolated unit 300 miles or so from the North Australian coast. 
I said that the present Government, when it was in Opposition and since it has been in government, has been quite consistent in its attitude to the East Timor situation. We have said, and we said long ago, that certain things should happen- that there should be a cessation of hostilities, that there should be a withdrawal of Indonesian troops, that there should be a readmission into East Timor of international humanitarian aid, most probably by way of the International Red Cross, and that ultimately we should find a method whereby there could be an act of real, proper and well policed, organised self-determination. These were the propositions that we put forward when we were in opposition and they are certainly the propositions that we have continued to put forward as a Government. 
I believe that one significant difference between our view and the Opposition's view of this problem relates to the matter in which the problem can or should be overcome. I quote a few words I said in a debate on this particular issue back on 5 May 1976. Referable to the propositions that we suggested were basic to a solution, I said: 
I can see no way in which that situation could be established effectively except through the intervention of the United Nations. 
I believe still that the appropriate body to do something of real constructive value in East Timor is the United Nations. If the world is going to see individuals flying around and individual nations taking umbrage at what occurs in any of a thousand different places and taking it upon themselves as individuals or as single nations to seek the solution we will be in a pretty hopeless position. If the United Nations is able to carry out the functions for which it was established, this sort of thing in the future may well be solved without all the problems - 
-We attempted to get the United Nations representative into Timor. I am glad the honourable senator mentioned that.  Mr Winspeare  Guiccardi came to Australia but we could get him no right of entry and no guarantee of his security. I would assume that as he was a United Nations representative it would have been the responsibility of the United Nations to take all sorts of necessary steps, all the steps it could take, to guarantee his security. This would be the normal process. He was a United Nations man and he had to have a measure of security guaranteed, but he was unable to get that measure of security. 
The sort of security we could have granted him, I suppose, would have amounted to ultimate confrontation on a military, naval or air level. I believe that probably that was the only way- 
I am saying that that would be the only thing we could do. The United Nations did exactly that sort of thing in the case of Korea but not in this circumstance. To think that, in order to solve this problem, Australia should go to the absolute ultimate of its capacity is to suggest that we should be looking at actual armed confrontation. I do not believe Australians are interested in that sort of thing. I do not believe that that is the way in which Australia as an individual nation should set about trying to solve this problem. 
In December 1975 the Australian Government played a leading role in having a motion put though the United Nations General Assembly which promoted the very matters to which I have referred. Then again on 20 March 1976, 1 think it was, our Foreign Minister  (Mr Peacock)  appealed to the Indonesians to withdraw their troops. If course the appeal was not successful, but so many appeals in so many areas are not successful. It was a genuine, proper and sincere appeal. It was an unsuccessful appeal. On 14 
April 1976 the Australian Government sought to have passed and did have passed by the Security Council of the United Nations a motion relating to these matters. But, of course, it was not within the capacity of the United Nations as it stands today to carry out the proposition. It seems to have lost its capacity, for a number of reasons, to establish for itself a measure of international police force activity. 
I have said before in this chamber and I say again that ultimately any party or any organisation which is to promote and implement the rule of international law- and that is immensely important- cannot in the long term be successful unless it has the capacity to impose that law. In our own society we have a police force and we have the law courts. We have the proper method of establishing the law and of imposing the law. Until that sort of situation, idealistic though it may be, exists within the structure of the United Nations it will be a body of very limited capacity. 
We have mentioned, and the proposed amendment mentions, the case of the journalists. Of course we are concerned about that sort of thing; but it is improbable that any information that could come to a committee such as that proposed would in any way solve the problem. Journalists who find themselves in that sort of circumstance accept a real measure of risk. That is normal in the conditions that existed, regrettably, in East Timor. It is the sort of thing that all sorts of investigations and questions, all sorts of charges and counter-charges, are not really going to repair. 
With reference to the Indonesian-East Timorese-Australian circumstance, perhaps we are failing to recognise that Australia is the only country of the Association of South East Asian Nations that has stood out with strength and conviction. It seems to me significant that the other member countries, namely, Indonesiabecause, of course, it is a party to the whole problem- Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and the Philippines, and beyond them Japan, have made no tremendous protest. We have not seen from them the sort of emotional protest that seems to have come from at least some sections of the Australian community. 
It has not happened amonst the ASEAN nations. I believe these nations are of extreme importance not only to Australia 's security but also to its trading relationships and to its ultimate projection in political and social fields. It seems to me that at the present time, in the context of South East Asia and the geographical area of which Australia certainly is a base and basic part, those countries are in a situation in which there is a greater measure of stability than there has been for perhaps the past 25 or 30 years. The problems in Vietnam and the problems that existed for over 20 years in Malaysia, with its involvement with communist terrorist organisations, have in large measure subsided. I believe it would be a tragedy if an action or an attitude were taken which tended to divide this country from a group of nations which are more stable than they have been in the past 25 or 30 years. To strain the relationships between Australia and Indonesia and our other friendly neighbours in the area can do no good to Australia. It certainly can do no good to Indonesia. Indonesia is involved with Australia in an aid program, airways and in all areas of trade. There is a distinct and growing involvement. It could do no good. 
It would do no good to Australia or to Indonesia. If this matter is carried beyond the point it has now reached it is my fear that it will do no good to those people directly involved as the problems of war and revolution occur. It would do little or no good to the East Timorese cause itself. As I have said before it would arouse an enormous measure of confusion, the sort of confusion which results from charges and counter-charges. 
In the  Australian  of 17 March  Mr Hayden  is reported to have said that it was impossible to assess the figures- these are the figures which refer to the circumstances in East Timor- accurately or authenticate them. If that is so, how can the sort of inquiry that is proposed by the Opposition in the Senate achieve in reality a great deal or, indeed, anything other than confusion and distress to which we certainly do not wish to add. Even the United States has already indicated a virtual  de facto  recognition of Indonesia's presence in East Timor. Some of the assertions made by  Mr Dunn  in America yesterday and today have had a large measure of doubt- let us leave it at that- cast upon them. It is fairly obvious that the reputed number of 60 000 to 100 000 people killed in East Timor could well have been 8000 or 10 000. I am not saying that that is not a tragedy; of course it is. But if there is a difference of approximately ten to one that sort of difference and unreality may apply to a lot of other evidence, stories and suggestions which are being made. If the proposed committee were to be confronted by suggestions and evidence from either side which are related to the truth by a factor no greater or no less than ten to one it would be in a pretty serious and hopeless situation in trying to resolve the problems that confront us. 
I wish to draw attention to three or four major points. I believe that the proposition to establish this sort of a committee can achieve virtually nothing. The committee would not have the capacity to make inquiries and obtain realistic and proper information to enable it to solve the problem. It is far more likely that it would be confronted with all sorts of suggestions of which there was no proof. It could lead to confusion; it could lead to a worsening of Indonesian and Australian relations; it could and probably would lead to a worsening of the situation from the point of view of the Timorese themselves. There is only one body to whom we should be appealing, a body which could take up the cudgel in these circumstances. Atrocities in East Timor have occurred. Atrocities have occurred in any of a dozen countries around the world. I wonder why we have not sought to investigate those. Why are we not seeking to investigate the things that are happening and have happened in Cambodia, Laos, Angola or in any of a number of other countries? It is the province of the United Nations. Regrettably, it seems to be unable to fulfill that responsibility. 
As I have said before, I believe that this is an impractical suggestion. It does not seem to me that the establishment of this sort of a committee with the capacity it would have operating in Australia, would give us the solutions to the problems of East Timor. It is far more important that a mature and adult relationship should be developed between the major countries in the area so that the problems of the past will not occur in the future. If these countries can talk to each other in an adult and mature way, if they are prepared to admit fault and failure here and there and if they are prepared to come to some reasonable compromise, of course they can solve the problems that confront the smaller nations in this region and around the world but this will happen only in those circumstances. I have referred to the importance of our relations with Indonesia and said that we could contribute little or nothing by increasing any strain in that area or in the Asian countries beyond Indonesia. Whilst we would be the first to admit the problems that exist and the tragedy that has occurred we do not believe that the committee would have the capacity to do anything more than create further irritation in a situation in which mature consultation and compromise alone will find the solutions for the future. That is what we should be looking for. We cannot amend or fix in any way what has regrettably occurred but we certainly can and must seek to ensure that it does not occur in the future. 
I rise to speak to the motion before the Senate which states: 
That the Government's industrial relations policy and performance present obstacles to the achievement of the cooperative and co-ordinated approach required to overcome the economic problems confronting the nation. 
I think I should begin my remarks by saying that it seems a shame that  Senator James  McClelland, who revealed himself as such a responsible and determined Minister in his particular area in the last months of the Whitlam regime, should in opposition, suddenly become concerned mainly with directing his verbose fluency towards a measure of bitterness rather than adopting a constructive approach to this problem. That sort of attitude will destroy whatever this Government or any government tries to do and it will also destroy what the Australian people want to happen. It seems a shame that that should be the tenor of this debate on a motion introduced by  Senator Harradine  into the Senate today. It is my conviction that rather than  present  obstacles to the economic recovery of this country the industrial relations policies, the attitudes and, indeed, the performance of this 
Government provide the very platforms from which co-operative and co-ordinated approaches to the economic problems can and must be taken. 
It is essential that industrial relations be a matter that is properly dealt with by any government if proper control of the cost structure is to be achieved and if the level of productivity in this country is to be increased once again. It is well known in this country and in other countries that industrial disputes are perhaps the greatest single determinant of the cost structure and are certainly the greatest menace to productivity. The reduction of inflation and an improvement in the employment figures in any country are built around productivity. This Government has been struggling for some 16 or 17 months with the paramount problem of inflation. In that context, we have to review, amongst other things, industrial relations. I believe it is quite simple and quite proper that we should point out that the industrial relations policy that we put to the Australian people more than 2 years ago contains a capacity to develop a proper measure of restraint and a proper measure of direction in the area of productivity. We have, as a government, sought to do this in a number of areas. We have sought very definitely to reduce our deficit which is, perhaps, the most important area in the fight against continuing and developing inflation. We have sought to increase productivity. We have sought to increase, through incentives, the production capacity of Australia which has gone so far off the rails in recent years- a productive capacity which was a negative figure for the first time in our history only a year or two ago and which today is running at a plus figure of about 4 per cent. 
I believe that it is important in a debate such as this that we should recall some of the things that have been said.  Senator Wright  recalled earlier today some of the comments made by  Mr Whitlam  when he was the Leader of the Labor Government. In Adelaide in 1975 he quite clearly stated that wages were the basic and most significant cause of spiralling inflation and consequent unemployment in this country. Of course  Mr Crean,  who was one of his several Treasurers, said so clearly that one man's wage rise was another man's job. If we examine the negotiations which have been taking place over the last few days and which hopefully will continue to go on, we find that constant reference has been made to the need for a tax cut to be built into any sort of negotiated peace or understanding. I think we are largely avoiding for some reason or other the fact that a tax cut is already significantly built into this economy. As from 1 July this year, the personal income tax indexation will involve a reduction of $ 1,050m in personal income tax. This is a significant tax cut to have occurred within 18 months of a government's coming to office. The 1976 Budget was the first Budget since 1972 in which indirect taxes were not increased. 
I refer the Senate to the words of the British Labour Prime Minister  Mr Callaghan.  One may well think it is  Mr Whitlam  speaking when I read the first sentence.  Mr Callaghan  said just recently: 
We used to think that you could just spend your way out of a recession and increase employment by cutting taxes and boosting government spending. I tell you in all candour that that option no longer exists and that insofar as it ever did exist, it worked by injecting inflation into the economy. 
Those were the decisions reached and the opinions expressed recently by the British Labour Prime Minister,  Mr Callaghan  who, unfortunately for him and his Party, has probably come to that realisation too late.  His  slender majority was recently made even more slender when a former Labour 1 1 000-vote majority was converted to a 2000-vote Conservative majority in a recent by-election. What I really want to ask as a result of what  Mr Callaghan  has said is: Why should Australians be so slow to learn from what has happened and is happening in countries like Britain? Why should we plunge ourselves unnecessarily into the sort of morass that Britain has been involved in for so many years? There are obvious ways out of that and obvious ways in which Australians need not be involved in that sort of circumstance. Indeed one of the ways out of that situation relates to industrial relations, and that is what this debate is all about. 
The industrial relations policy of this Government was clearly stated almost 2 years ago. It stated that every member of the community has rights and obligations. It sought that rights should be protected and that obligations should be met. It recognised that the community has rights just as the community has obligations and that an industrial relations framework must be relevant to those rights and obligations. It was abundantly clear I believe in those days- even  Senator Harradine  would have accepted thisthat they were proper and correct principles for industrial policy and relationship. Quite clearly the Australian electorate endorsed that circumstance overwhelmingly. At the time the Australian electorate voted on the policies and attitudes in industrial relations that are the matter of this debate today. The electorate gave overwhelming approval to the implementation of those policies. To those forces in this country whether unions, Labor Oppositions or whatever which opposed the implementation of policies that were so unanimously endorsed Australians owe no thanks at all. 
I refer now to the damage of 3 years of socialist experiment in which perhaps somewhat ironically we have seen the highest level of industrial unrest in recent years, uncontrolled spiralling of wages and prices, a constantly diving level of productivity, a deficit rise from $700m to $4,000m, and unemployment and inflation rise to quite desperate and unacceptable levels. These were the hallmarks of that era. These same people, at least those at political and union leadership level, who caused that damage now seem to be intent on one thing only, and that is stopping the implementation of a framework of policy in industrial relations that could well see this country rise out of the mire into which it had fallen in the social experiment era. I say that with a reasonable reference to the situation today. There is a lot of distortion and confusion about what has in fact been happening. 
The facts are that within 18 months or less we have succeeded in some real measure in reducing the rate of inflation in this country. We have seen the growth rate of this community move from a negative figure to a plus 4 per cent figure. We have seen a rise in the profit levels of at least some operations in this country for the first time in a number of years. Although that is somewhat derided I make the point that unless profits rise in a reasonable and proper manner it does not matter what sort of society a person lives in, whether a fascist dictatorship, a communist dictatorship, a socialist Utopia- wherever one finds that- or the hardest of all institutions, a democracy, as we have in this country. It does not matter very much what we are. Unless we succeed in raising profits to proper and reasonable levels we will not succeed in getting out of the sort of morass in which we have found ourselves in this country in the last 3 to 5 years. 
I make the point that the industrial relations policies which are being debated before the Senate today are a sort of legislation which has within it the protection of the individual the protection of groups of individuals, the right of people to find, not necessarily as individuals, some sort of representation in the courts, and the right of people to object to matters which they believe are not relevant to their freedom as members of a free society. We must be aware that freedom in this country as anywhere alse must be related to discipline. One would expect Australians to be concerned with discipline and with law. Whether a person is in an industrial circumstance or a commercial circumstance, without a measure of discipline no freedom will exist. That sort of discipline is part of what our legislation seeks to provide, not necessarily its imposition but at least its provision. As time passes by I say once again that I believe we are not providing obstacles but platforms for the improved economic conditions in this country. 
I rise to support these 2 important pieces of government legislation referable to industrial relations- the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1977 and the Bill to establish the National Labour Consultative Council. I am somewhat disturbed and somewhat at a loss to understand why there is opposition to the Bill which will form the Industrial Relations Bureau in this circumstance. It has a very real and basic job to do in the establishment of proper and productive industrial relations. Certainly, the legislation which is before us is the consequence of discussion, which is so important and to which  Senator Cavanagh  has just referred. The very fact that this Bill is here in the form in which it is- even if it is a somewhat lesser Bill than it was originally conceived to be- to form a basic mechanism in the industrial relations complex, is evidence of the genuine determination of the 
Government to discuss with all the appropriate people and the appropriate authorities matters which are relevant to industrial relations. That is why the Bill is here; that is why it is as it is. It seems to me that it is somewhat naive to assume that any relationship in a free democracy can operate without being subject to some sort of consequences. All of us, as individuals and as we move about in our various ways of life- in families, groups and organisations- are subject to the law and subject to the consequences of breaking the law. That is the very essence of the freedom of the society in which we live. Indeed, it is the extraordinary difference between our sort of society, with our capacity to communicate, and the societies in totalitarian countries, of whatever colour, around the world. 
-These are the basic differences between our sort of society and those in totalitarian circumstances. We should guard those things which enable us to live and to operate in freedom under the law. It is quite ridiculous, as I said earlier, to assume that freedom under the law can exist if the law cannot be implemented. It is as simple and as basic as that. I cannot understand the opposition to that clear proposition which is basic to a free society and basic to its permanence. 
There have been and there continue to be some suggestions that this Government, in its industrial  relations, seeks  only to bash unions and to cause confrontation. That would be a most unintelligent attitude to take. It certainly is not borne out by any of the Government's propositions and policies on these matters which have been clearly stated and which have been well known now for almost 2 years. I draw the Senate's attention- only briefly because of the pressure of time- to a number of principles that are referable to this Government's attitude to industrial relations, namely: Every employee has a right to join a union. Equally, every employee has a right not to do so. While membership of organisations should be voluntary, employees and employers should be positively encouraged to take a responsible and active part in their respective union and industry organisations. Consultation, negotiation and co-operation between employees and employers would be assisted by a structure of industry unions. 
The policy further states: The Government would support and encourage employees and employers to take a responsible and active part in their trade union or industry association. We would seek to work with the Australian Council of Trade Unions in the encouragement and formation of industry based unions, if that should prove to be the consensus of opinion. The Liberal and National Country Parties would strengthen rank and file control of organisations through secret ballots. We would encourage and support registration of negotiating bodies. Further, it says that we must as a Government create an awareness of the need for better communication and understanding of all the advantages that can be gained by all parties. We should encourage those engaged in industrial relations to discuss and understand each other's point of view, support participation and cooperation, publicise advanced industrial practices and establish, amongst other things, a national labour advisory council. 

 Senator Georges is interjecting. I know that these matters are causing him much concernand well might they, because they really disprove the sort of projections that he constantly seeks to make. They clearly disprove any suggestion that this Government is headed on a course of confrontation and that it seeks not to discuss with the appropriate people and the appropriate bodies the problems of industrial relations. No problems are more basic to the success of this community, this economy and this society than are industrial relations problems. For a number of years we have been subjected to industrial unrest which can serve no-one 's purpose. It should be the wish of both the Opposition and the Government to solve these problems. We have seen a measure of industrial unrest from time to time. On many occasions, it has been irresponsible and has only contributed to loss of wages, loss of production, loss of employment opportunities and capital being driven out of Australia. The whole nation should be involved in solving these problems and rescuing our economy. If we continue in this matter, we cannot survive. 
In that context, it is interesting to refer briefly to a recent public opinion poll which indicated, amongst other things, that only one-fifth of Australians believed that unions should have the right to strike for wage increases outside the arbitration system. This survey also found that only 1 8 per cent thought that trade unionism should be compulsory and 78 per cent believed that it should be voluntary. Fifty-one per cent of unionists believed that some unionists should be able to continue working if their union went on strike and 56 per cent of those interviewed believed that a union should be deregistered when it could not agree with a decision ofthe Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Seventy per cent said that the Arbitration Commission should be able to fine unions and 52 per cent believed that the Commission should be able to fine union officials. Only 38 per cent thought that the Commission should have power to gaol officials who refuse to pay fines. As a matter of interest, the vote for voluntary union membership was strongest in South Australia, where the vote was 83 per cent. Probably even more interesting is the fact that the vote in the age group under 30 years was 87 per cent. 
I make these points because I believe that they are relevant to the importance of industrial relations. They are certainly relevant to the concern of a great number of Australians. We should confront these problems and they should, in some real measure, be solved. They are the circumstances that are being identified by the Australian community as areas which are only leading us further down a path to national destruction in an economic and social sense. Before I put the opinion poll aside- there is a great deal of definition in it- I point out that it is interesting to note that only 17 per cent of union members thought that any strikes referable to sporting circumstances were justified. 
-The overall vote was 14 per cent. The poll was conducted by a well-known and proper organisation. It was conducted by the Morgan gall up poll organisation in Australia. It is a poll organisation which the Opposition and indeed the Government have quoted from time to time. It is a poll organisation which is of some real significance in assessing the national point of view. Those are the results of that investigation of trade unionism. 
I return briefly to the Bills before us. The establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau is the means by which this Government implements its policy. This Government believes that obligations have to be met and that the rights of individuals, groups and organisations have to be protected. This is the very basic necessity of the sort of evolutionary circumstance in which we live in this country. As a means of implementing that policy the first step is the introduction of the Industrial Relations Bureau as the base mechanism for the implementation of Government policy. It is to be aided and abetted, very fortunately I believe, by the reintroduction of the National Labour Consultative Council. 
It is important to note that in the implementation of this legislation the Government has the support of  Mr Hawke,  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and of the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. Indeed they have supported it to the extent, as was indicated by  Senator Button  this morning when he quoted their actual statement which for the sake of brevity I shall not repeat to the Senate this afternoon, that they did undertake that they were prepared to accept the establishment of the Bureau. They were prepared to accept it as taking over the powers of the Arbitration Inspectorate. They were prepared to accept and participate in the establishment of the National Labour Consultative Council which is a body that I believe and hope, and I imagine that all Australians would believe and hope, will bring out some really constructive exercises in and some really constructive solutions to the problems that present themselves fairly continuously in industrial relations. 
The Government has agreed, I believe quite properly, that with a union attitude as generous as that was- a union attitude that was prepared to do these 2 things which formerly it had not been prepared to do- it was necessary that this action take place, and it is to implement the very things that have been agreed to by the ACTU,  Mr Hawke  and by CAGEO. The National Labour Consultative Council envisages a sort of tripartite forum in which employers, employees and the Government will meet regularly, at least quarterly, and as the Minister decides, to discuss matters of great priority in industrial relationships in this country. It seems to me immensely important and significant that there is recognition that the sorts of things that are relevant to the Bill of some weeks ago are the sorts of things that are accepted as having priority for discussion in that Council. It is the hope of this Government and, I believe, of the great mass of Australians that a responsible result comes from that sort of investigation. 
The question of bashing trade unions does not appeal to me in any shape or form and I would be the very last person to suggest that it was a proper course. I would be the first person to suggest that trade unionism has had and still retains important work to do. There is every reason in the history of industrial relations for trade unions to have developed along the lines that they have. They are the result of a great age, an era in which there was a great lack of communication, mental and physical. I will not go into the details of why that occurred. They were the result of an age in which there was a real measure of abuse. They have produced a great deal of good for their members and in a very real sense for the community as a whole, but they have reached, somewhat disastrously I believe, a point where in many circumstances they seek to override the proper duties and responsibilities of elected government. No one in a free democracy could assume that this is a circumstance that must be allowed to continue. It is because of that that there is a great urgency for the sort of legislation that confronts us in this chamber this afternoon. 
I draw a brief note to one or two remarks that have been made in the other place.  Mr Willis  in the other place said that the Government is already breaking its agreement, but of course everybody knows that this is not true. I cannot understand why  Mr Willis  or any of his colleagues should suggest that there has been a breaking by the Government of the agreements that have been reached between  Mr Hawke,  the ACTU and CAGEO. It is simply not true. I go on further to recognise that the individual rights and public interests have to be recognised if we are to get some sort of solution to the industrial relations problems. It is a recognition of the public interest that is perhaps paramount in the establishment of a working circumstance between labour and capital, employer and employee- call it what you will- because that sort of circumstance will be found in every sort of society in every country, and it is our job and our duty to ensure that it is a circumstance to which there is a real and proper solution. Indeed, responsibility is the very hallmark of a democracy and responsibility is the very essence of the legislation that is before us in this Parliament this afternoon. I note that in the other place a day or two ago  Mr Clyde  Cameron, in speaking on this legislation, said:   the trade union movement of this country could bring down this Government simply by bringing out a few key men. 

 Senator Cavanagh also highlighted that circumstance. Further on  Mr Clyde  Cameron said: 
It will bring out a few key people who, when they come out, will have the effect of paralysing every industry in the country. 
What a dreadful sort of attitude for an Australian to promote. 
By the legislation that confronts us this afternoon we are determined to ensure that that sort of circumstance shall not survive, that is, a circumstance in which a few people have the capacity to paralyse the country. That is the object of the exercise and I understand, as I said earlier, why  Senator Georges  does not like it. But there it is, that is the object of the exercise- to make sure that in industrial relations in this country there is a measure of responsibility which will make it impossible for any small group of people, whoever they may be, literally by determined action to paralyse industry and consequently the whole Australian society. With these matters in mind I commend the legislation to the Senate. 
I support the Bills. Because of the need for brevity in what we say on this occasion, I shall not spend much time talking about the most recent contribution from  Senator Walsh.  Perhaps I will spend one minute on it- and maybe even that is more than it deserves.  Senator Walsh  seems to be intent on suggesting that there is a rift in the coalition and that the division may be seen clearly in what happened during the development of this legislation. I emphasise that the legislation that is before us today is the result of the combined Parties and the combined 
Government committee. It is the result of examination by the joint Party room. It has the approval of both those bodies. There is no indication at all, and never has been, that there is any sort of problem relating to it that is referable to the Parties comprising this Government. 
As usual  Senator Walsh  seems to take objection to the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  in the performance of his duties in this Parliament. I am sure that  Mr Sinclair  is capable of looking after himself, even against the attacks of  Senator Walsh.  He certainly would be one of the most highly regarded members of the Government in this country so there is really no need for me to say more than that in regard to  Mr Sinclair. Senator Walsh  asked, among other things: 'Who will be entitled to vote? Why is this not written into the legislation?' Of course the formation of the consultative group is still being discussed and there is still a measure of disunity among the industry organisations. When the final decision is made on who shall vote and how, it will be written into the Act. I think that is a proper and responsible attitude to take. 
This legislation is the result of a long and continuing period, running into a considerable number of months, of discussions between the organisations, their representatives and this Government, including  Mr Sinclair  in particular. The situation has about it a measure of irony because in the course of those months there was an insistence that there was a real urgency to bring this Corporation into operation. Indeed from time to time the Minister has been accused of procrastination. Yet now that the legislation has been finalised-not that it cannot be improved in the passage of time; most pieces of legislation can be improved in the passage of time- and it has been brought to fruition before this session ends, the criticism, only in some quarters now, is that it has been done too quickly. It is pretty difficult when first we are accused of procrastinating, and then when the goods are produced it is suggested that we have produced them too quickly. One of the problems that has been inherent in this whole procedure and one of the unfortunate circumstances is that there has been present real and distinguishable disunity among the producer organisations. I hope that in the course of the next few months there will be a much greater measure of unity because the ultimate survival of every individual in the rural industry is dependent on unity between the organisations that represent them. 
The purpose of this legislation is to form a corporation to take the place of the Australian Meat Board. There was an urgency in the request from most of the producer organisations around Australia that this should be a matter of high priority. The corporation that has been produced is, I believe, a proper and responsible compromise and a base upon which can be built the ultimate solutions of an industry in Australia which has been suffering extremely bad times in recent years. Of course we have to recognise that the mere establishment of this corporation, even though it may be- and I believe it will be- an extremely effective body, will not of itself be the solution to the massive problems that confront the Australian beef industry. 
Statutory control in Australia is nothing new in the marketing of beef or meat for export. It has existed since 1935, with the exception, of the years 1943-46. There was a restructuring of the Meat Board in 1946 and 1964 and some minor changes took place in 1 969. Statutory control has been part and parcel of the export of beef in this country for all those years. 
The industry has come through some extraordinarily difficult years. What happened in those years in some sense reminds us of the disastrous wool situation which in 1 970 led to the establishment of the Australian Wool Commission which was the prelude to the Australian Wool Corporation. The Corporation was virtually the saviour of the wool industry of this country. As a result of those disastrous times, vast numbers of Australian producers sought to save themselvesand who would not do this- by moving from a wool industry into a beef industry that looked more hopeful. They did so at extreme cost. We saw them selling their sheep at about 50c a head and purchasing cattle at $ 1 20 a head. These were the sorts of circumstances that resulted in the wrong sort of country being used in the cattle industry. In many instances this added to the difficulties. The difficulties were added to by sources outside the control of this country. In 1973 and 1974 there was a cattle boom and it was followed by a tragic slump. This was associated with the loss of the United Kingdom market upon its entry into the European Economic Community. This slump was added to by the problem of the energy crisis around the world which denied some of our major markets sufficient funds to enter into the market for beef cattle. These are the sorts of tragic and, in some measure, uncontrollable factors that have created the problems in the beef industry and which are the reason for the state the industry is in today. 
This Corporation is the first realistic attempt to give us a structural base from which the industry may climb into new markets, into new methods and into new presentation. I believe it is an effective and proper base. I believe that when the great mass of Australian producers sit down and divorce themselves from emotionalism and look at the thing from a realistic and reasonable point of view, they will agree that it is a proper and useful base. 
In the confines of a minute or two, may I just refer to the composition of the Corporation. This is almost the only point on which there is much real disunity at this time. Indeed, the composition of the Corporation has been accepted by a very significant number of producer organisations. As time goes by, I am sure that the Corporation's performance will gain it a far wider acceptance. Four members out of the 9 members of the Corporation are to be producers. This at least is a very significant involvement. It is a 45 per cent involvement, if put in statistical terms. But it is more than that because within the legislation there is a provision which states that there will be no quorum of the Corporation unless a producer is present. So this is another area in which there is a real measure of producer control. 
Basically, I believe it is important that there be maximum involvement but it has to be within a structure that recognises that the beef industry and the meat industry are vertically integrated industries. One cannot look totally at the base, at the beginning, at the production of livestock in terms other than as it relates to ultimate consumption. There has to be recognition of this sort of progress. This sort of structure, whilst giving the producer a very significant involvement, in fact by far the most significant involvement, also recognises the importance of the exporter, the importance of the man with special qualifications. Surely- I believe most reasonable producers would agree with me- in the long term the survival and the development of this industry is basically dependent on the expertise that represents and promotes it. 
I believe that this legislation does not give undue control to the Minister. In fact, he will have less control over the new Corporation than he has had over the Australian Meat Board. In certain areas it is essential to have some measure of control. In every area of control the Minister has to realise that whatever control he exerts is published in the  Gazette  and published in the annual report of the Corporation. This means that the measure of responsibility that lies with the Minister is quite enormous. It seems strange to me that one could think that Ministers are so unrealistic that they would not recognise that responsibility. We hope and believe that this Corporation will represent a responsible compromise in a situation that has to be remedied. It represents a proper base. The efficacy of this Corporation will depend largely now upon the industry getting behind it. Any legislation in the last resort is effective only insofar as it is recognised and promoted by the people it is meant to defend. I support the Corporation and the Bills that are being considered cognately in this debate. 
I rise to oppose the motion before us which alleges that the following is a matter of urgency: 
The Government's failure to take positive steps to improve employment and its discriminatory actions against the unemployed. 
This discussion could really only be of value if, in the course of it, we were able to determine the causes of the problems that confront us and then determine to overcome them. If we spend only an hour or two in bemoaning a circumstance, in producing, as I believe  Senator Grimes  did, a doleful story and in inferring that Australia and Australians are totally incapable of getting out of the problems which he and his Government over three years of socialist experiment evolved for them, then our whole contribution will be merely to emphasise the problems that confront this country- to emphasise unemployment, to emphasise the disasters that are built around an unemployment-inflation situation. 
I take a moment to mention one or two of the things that have been said in the debate.  Senator Bishop  referred to the need to assist the States in the circumstances in which this country finds itself. Good heavens, the States are wealthier now than they have even been in the history of this country. If they have the capacity to do things that will solve some of the problems that confront the country, certainly that capacity is not related to their financial ability to do those things, but rather to their determination to recognise them and to carry them out. I further remind  Senator Bishop-  I am sure he is well aware of this-that  Mr Callaghan,  the British Labour Prime Minister, said not very long ago that as a government you cannot spend your way out of inflation and unemployment. As a government, you have to establish the sorts of circumstances that will bring a measure of initiative and confidence into commercial and industrial operations, a measure great enough to seek to employ all those who are capable of being employed in a society. That is the job of a government and it is not possible, as some socialists around the world have suggested, to just spend your way out of problems of inflation and unemployment. 

 Senator Grimes spent quite a deal of time talking about the disaster of the suggestion that the payment of unemployment benefit should be a payment fortnightly in arrears.  Senator Wright  quite clearly and quite properly pointed out that that is the normal way of receiving payment for anything.  Senator Grimes  referred to unemployment as a national disgrace. Well he should know, because he contributed quite successfully to the establishment of unemployment in this country. He said further that unemployment benefits should not be taxed, but surely if unemployment benefits, along with the moneys that a person earns in the course of a year, happened to form part of a taxable income it is reasonable that they should be taxed. Why should they not be taxed? They are contributed by every taxpayer in Australia in the first place. We say that in a just circumstance of unemployment of course they should be paid to the people who are eligible to receive them. But if they form part of a total taxable income, then they should be taxed like any other such income. 
I refer again to the words pf the first part of the motion that is before us: 
The Government's failure to take positive steps to improve employment . . . 
There is no doubt that the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, in his three years of office took very positive steps to establish unemployment. He has certainly done a fine job in leaving to Australians a legacy which is going to be, is proving to be and which everybody accepted would be an extraordinarily difficult legacy to overcome. He was eminently successful in producing unemployment and inflation. Indeed, in the three years in which he was in office, from 1972 to 1975, he saw an average annual increase in the level of unemployment in excess of one per cent. It increased from 2 per cent or just over that figure to well in excess of 5 per cent in a threeyear period. Incidentally, in the first year of the Fraser Government-and this is nothing to be enormously proud of in the total- the increase in unemployment was 0.2 per cent, which is less than one-fifth of the average annual increase in unemployment during the years of  Mr Whitlam  's Government. Those years also saw an increase in average wages and salaries of 15 per cent, 28 per cent and 1 3 per cent. 
Here is the other point that is of extreme importance: In those three years we saw increases in government expenditure of 23 per cent, 33 per cent and 38 per cent. Is it any wonder that on coming to office we were confronted with unemployment and inflation immeasurably high in terms of Australian economic history. Labor's only recourse to that problem, as our leader clearly stated, was the establishment of the Regional Employment Development scheme- a scheme which left many somewhat futile objects throughout the community and which was so disastrously expensive that it was abandoned by its instigators. The solution to the problem of employment in Australia surely lies- this Government is aware of it and I believe that more and more people in Australia are becoming aware of it- in the establishment of circumstances whereby this economy develops to the degree that its commercial and industrial enterprises once again know stability, once again know incentive, once again know that there will be a reward for initiative and once again know that profit is available. In those circumstances and in those circumstances alone are we going to solve the unemployment problem that confronts us today. Of course we are aware of it; the whole community is aware of it. The important thing is that the community should be listening to this debate, should be reading of matters in the Press and should be discussing amongst themselves and analysing the causes of the problem because they are pretty clear and pretty easy to identify. Having identified them, they have to make a determination that they are going to solve them, because in a democracy any legislation is about as good as the strength of the will of the people to make it work. Hopefully Australians are beginning to reach the point where they are determined to make it work. 
I remind the Senate that in the financial year ending 30 June 1977 real wages actually increased. People could buy more at the end of that year than they could at the beginning. But real wages had risen to such an extent that they had put vast numbers of jobs in jeopardy. The thing which Australians and most of all the trade union leadership, the leaders of industry, the Government and the Opposition have to recognise is that that is the basic cause of the problems that confront us. The guilt for the situation that confronts us in Australia probably lies predominantly with the radical element of trade union leadership. It has sought successfully, over 3 years of weak socialist government, to price Australians out of the work force and out of competition around the world. All it succeeded in doing was to export job opportunities from this country; to switch the emphasis from labour intensive to capital intensive operations. That very switch of emphasis makes re-employment and overcoming the problems that confront us infinitely more difficult. It is about time Australians en masse recognised that these circumstances confront them with an enormous problem to which there is no easy or quick solution. There has been a tendency and will continue to be a tendency to use sophisticated machinery, to use computerisation and to do all those things which minimise the use of labour. In the circumstances that confront this country today that is a disastrous position. 
I refer to the final part of the motion that is before us this afternoon which alleges that the Government is discriminating against the unemployed, lt is pretty childish and stupid to assume that any government of any colour would set out to discriminate against the unemployed. The people in this Government, like the people in the Opposition, are adults. They are not likely to set out to discriminate against the unemployed. The Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  in this chamber this afternoon referred to programs related to the Commonwealth Employment Service right through to the added areas of apprenticeship and various youth training schemes which are now applicable to people up to the age of 25. He outlined the many serious and effective contributions to overcoming the unemployment problem of this country, particularly in the youth area, in which this Government has been involved. The contributions are significant indeed. They cover something like 40 000 to 50 000 people in all. In apprenticeships alone the rise in the last 12 months has been in excess of 10 per cent. 
Let me remind the Senate that this Budget includes no less than $787m for unemployment and sickness benefits. That is a massive amount of money. 
It is to meet circumstances to which the honourable senator amongst others contributed. We have shown a measure of responsibility as well as a capacity to identify the size of that disaster. An amount of $787m has been allocated to unemployment and sickness benefits. We have sought, and are seeking to ensure that these benefits go to the genuinely needy. Not only will the benefits be more effective from the point of view of the unemployed people themselves but also they will represent a realistic attitude from the point of view of the taxpayer. 
Time presses. Let me close by saying, as I said earlier today, that the solution to unemployment and inflation in this country lies in the capacity and the determination of people to analyse what it is all about. Australians have recognised that. The Budget, through tax cuts and other incentives, is providing the background that eventually will be the solid and ultimate solution to the unemployment problem in this country. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to an item in this morning's news broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The comment was as follows: 
The Reserve Bank in its annual report backs the Federal Government's view that reducing inflation is the key to success in cutting unemployment and the Bank, echoing the Government's Budget line, suggests that wage indexation can tend to slow a possible decline in inflation. On unemployment the Reserve Bank says that, although economic stimulation might create more jobs in the short term, they would disappear as inflation  resurged.  The Bank says that major imbalances remain in the economy and the challenge is still to bring down prices and wages sufficiently for demand, production and employment to reach satisfactory levels. 
Does this mean that the softly spoken  Mr Hawke,  as a director of the Reserve Bank of Australia, shares the Bank's view and that perhaps his attitude and economic theories change with his change of hat? 
I present the following petition from 43 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That many pensioners who are holders of the Pensioners Health Benefit Card have suffered undue hardship as inmates of private nursing homes, because the Federal Govrnment subsidy was insufficient to meet the charges as laid down. 
Many pensioners whose spouse was an inmate of the private nursing homes suffered poverty in an endeavour to sustain their partner while in the nursing home. 
Only in rare cases was the statutory minimum patient contribution as laid down adhered to. 
That the telephone was a matter of life and death to many pensioners, but because of the cost of installation of the telephone many are unable to afford the installation. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on and are forced to pay high rents, are in many cases living in extreme poverty. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Make sure that subsidies paid to private nursing homes are such that each pensioner holding a Pensioners Health Benefit Card will pay the private nursing home no more than the statutory minimum patient contribution, which will allow six dollars per week to be retained by the pensioner patient for their personal use. 
That a pensioner holding a Pensioner Health Card shall have a telephone installed free of charge, or at a very nominal charge. 
That those pensioners who have only their pension and very little else to live on, shall receive a subsidy to assist them. The subsidy to be governed by a means test. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise briefly to support the Wool Industry Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1977. It has been expounded to the Senate quite clearly by  Senator Wriedt  tonight and there is no need for me to go over all the details. I am glad, as I am sure all of us on this side of the chamber are, that the Opposition finds no problem with the legislation and gives it its full support. But this is an opportunityand it should be taken- to say just a few words about the wool industry in the Australian primary producing context, because the wool industry is probably the most legendary of all the industries in rural Australia. It was virtually the first primary industry established in this country. It is an industry in which Australia produces the most and the best of the particular product in the world. That being the case, quite clearly it is an industry that is basic to the stability and the balance of the whole of the rural scene. If one looks back across the decades of primary production in this country one is constantly reminded of the fact that when problems became apparent and severe in the wool industry, as they have from time to time for various reasons, they were followed almost always by significant and sometimes great problems in any number of other industries in the rural sector. Because of the industry's pre-eminence and because of Australia's capacity to produce the most and the best of the product in the world, it is fundamental to the balance of primary industry and the rural sector as a whole in the Australian scene. Consequently any legislation which relates to the wool industry in this country has to be important. 
The purpose of this Bill is, of course, to amend the Wool Industry Act 1972. As  Senator Wriedt  has explained, this Bill has a twofold objective: It seeks to continue- indeed it increases- the Government contribution to wool promotion and research. It also seeks to enable the Australian Wool Corporation to act more effectively in the negotiation of freight rates for the carriage of wool overseas. It seeks to give the Australian Wool Corporation the powers that are to be powers of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation in respect of freighting its product. I believe that in promotion and research it is significant to note that, after many years of conjecture and a real measure of scepticism as to whether quite massive sums of money should be spent and could be effectively spent in the areas of promotion and research, it now has been virtually universally accepted that promotion and research are absolutely basic to the Australian wool industry. In that context it is important that the Government recognises this, as indeed it does, and that it continues and increases its support in those areas. There was a time when these things were regarded as non-essential but the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission have substantiated the views that have been propounded for some 10 or 20 years that research and promotion were paying objectives in the wool industry. 
In the first place, the Australian Wool Corporation and the industry in general have taken the view that wool should be promoted as a sort of super fibre. There were a considerable number of years when that too was doubted. They have established it as a supreme fibre in the textile field. Having done that, very correctly I believe, the tendency now is to use it as a blend with certain synthetic fibres, provided that the ratio is correct and that standards are maintained. Consequently there are being opened up to wool markets that previously were not available and previously were the province of synthetics. It is interesting to note that synthetics as textile fibres, man-made fibres, made tremendous inroads into the wool industry in the 1950s and the 1960s, but synthetics now, as a petro-chemical product and because of the expense of the raw material involved in their production, are finding many of the problems that formerly had been typical of the problems relating to wool as a fibre. 
I choose to say very little on the matter of freight, except that it is important that the Government recognise that the Wool Corporation should have maximum powers in establishing control over the freighting arrangements for wool because there are few areas in which real cost savings can be made in the wool industry, or in fact in almost any primary industry. One of them certainly relates to freight, and it is in this area that this legislation hopefully will provide a significant improvement. 

 Senator Wriedt mentioned the change in the funding to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, and the adoption of the IAC recommendation that 60 per cent of the funds for continuing wool research, which is now supported by the CSIRO and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics from the Wool Research Trust Fund, should be funded from Consolidated Revenue. There is a very good reason for that to be the case. The advantages of research and, indeed, of promotion are not confined to the producers of wool but extend over a range of industries- the textile industry, the retail industry and a number of other industries which are involved and which benefit from anything which tends to improve the capacity of the wool industry in this country. The amount that this Government provides for wool research and promotion in this Budget is $3 1.4m, which is an increase of $10m. Therefore, it is a significant contribution. In spite of the fact that appropriations will be made annually in future, closest consultation will be maintained between the various bodies controlling the wool industry, the textile industry, the Minister and the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
In recent years the wool industry- through the Australian Wool Corporation- has been a real innovator. It is high time that this was the situation. Many of the problems facing the industry stem from the fact that over many years there was a measure of inertia in the wool industry. Things were allowed to go along as they had always gone. In the last 30 or 40 years we have seen several peaks and troughs in the price of wool and consequently in the industry itself. It is now recognised that there is one significant way in which we can contribute to ironing out those peaks and troughs. It relates to the stabilising of the market. It relates to the very essence of the Australian Wool Corporation which, incidentally, had its beginnings in the 1970 production of the Australian Wool Commission. This was the beginning. This was the first element of a reserve price in the market place. It was the prelude to the Australian Wool Corporation itself which provided a strong buying force, and a strong reserve in the traditional auction system. That has proved to be and is proving to be the salvation of this industry and of all other industries that are to a large degree dependent on it. 
I believe it is important to recognise in any discussion of the wool industry the degree to which it has traditionally stood on its own feet- the degree to which initiative and individualism have been typical of it. I remind the Senate that this industry has sought and has received little aid. 
Today, with its levy of 8 per cent of the gross value of wool, it provides the sum of $95m towards its own salvation and stability and towards the salvation and stability of all those industries and people dependent on it. This industry, as I said earlier, is a basic industry to the balance of rural Australia. It is moving towards a stronger position. This Government has promoted that movement. It has seen fit to advance the average base price of wool by  WA  per cent- the full value of the original devaluation. It increased the price from 250c to 284c and it nominated a price which will exist not only in the 6 months of the current year but also will continue in the financial year we have just begun. It has also contributed significantly to the stability, strength and confidence of the producing, buying and manufacturing side of the industry. I have pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. No doubt the Minister has noticed that the Hamer Government in Victoria has now joined Queensland in abolishing probate duty. Is this not partly due to the healthy condition of State revenues under the new and generous Commonwealth tax sharing scheme? Is it not also due to the final and expanding view of probate as a destructive tax, a tax on initiative, and one which militates against long term capital investment and job opportunities which follow? Will the Minister seek to maintain pressure for its early abolition in the federal arena? 
This urgency debate, relates to a matter that I believe needs examination- an allegation that the Fraser Government has shown incompetence in managing the economy. We have just listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  making statements which represent the most unAustralian of all attitudes in a Parliament. We have listened to some minutes of rhetoric which could at times have been mistaken for panic. We have listened to statements directed towards misrepresentation and confusion in regard to taxation, employment and inflation. It is that sort of contribution from the Opposition, and indeed from some sections of the media and the more radical leadership in the trade union movement, which has led to the distortion and confusion which are the greatest braking force on the recovery of this country's economy and on the recovery of this country from the point of view of all Australians. Unfortunately, it was typical of the contribution which is continually made by the Opposition in this chamber and in other areas throughout the country. 
The Opposition is virtually denying Australians the opportunity to move much more rapidly out of the disasters into which they fell during 3 years of socialist experiment from 1972 to 1975. The sorts of problems that arose in those years were set out explicitly by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  only a few moments ago, and riding out those problems is made more difficult because of the confusion and distortion that the Opposition chooses to introduce into debating every piece of legislation which comes before this Parliament. There is no doubt that the effectiveness of legislation is largely related to the will of the people to make it work. Over the decades Australians have been famous for a determination to make things work, to solve their problems. But 3 years of socialism have implanted a lasting effect in the minds of Australians, particularly young Australians. Those three years tended to build up the concept of the state being the master, not the servant, of the people. Those three years tended to promote in Australians a feeling that the state could provide, that the state had all the solutions, that the old standards of initiative and individualism were characteristics of the past; they were just myths. It is that sort of circumstance that is perhaps the most difficult of all to overcome in the recovery that is occurring. It is happening relatively slowly but unquestionably it is being brought about. 
I believe that in a sense the Opposition has done this Government a good service in bringing on this urgency motion for debate because it gives us the opportunity of asking people to think in a balanced way about what has been done about the policies and procedures that are being followed and which are undoubtedly bringing this economy and this society out of the trough into which they had fallen. I do not think that opportunity was the object of the Opposition in bringing this debate into Parliament today. I think it is perhaps typical of the Opposition which is desperately keen, I believe, to keep away from public thought, discussion and debate a number of matters that are relevant to it that are indeed most embarrassing. I refer, for instance, to one of the conclusions of the conference of the Labor Party in Perth just very recently when it decided that the economic recipe with which it would confront the Australian people from this time on to overcome the problems that are to be found in our economy was the identical economic recipe that produced the very problems to which that Party refers. The conference in Perth could only come up with the suggestion that we must increase expenditure in the public sector. This means there will be increased taxation. There will be less emphasis on the private sector. There will be an increased deficit and all the other factors that an increased deficit involve including increased taxation. That is the program of this Opposition in conference in Perth and it is a program which is identical to the program that produced the disasters of 1973, 1974 and 1975. Indeed it is reasonable to assume that the Labor Party would not want people to be talking about or thinking about that as a program. 
I believe its supporters are in no small measure embarrassed by the fact that the Fraser Government has adopted after long and careful examination a uranium policy that is determined to mine and export uranium. They must be in some measure embarrassed by that when they look at the resolution of 8 September of the Trade Union Congress in the United Kingdom. I do not quote this in full, but in part. It reads: 
Congress instructs the General Council to press the Government to formulate a plan for energy which will not leave us dependent upon as yet unproved or undeveloped sources of energy beyond the 1980s and which will ensure that the urgent decisions which need to be taken to avoid any threat to economic expansion and standards of living are no longer unnecessarily delayed. This should include the following objectives: 
To promote an effective energy conservation program. 
To maximise the contribution of an expanded and socially acceptable nuclear programme . . . 
Congress supports the construction of a full scale demonstration fast breeder reactor and further declares its support for the development of reprocessing facilities at Windscale . . . 
That sort of determination by a major trade union movement in a great democracy would be, I think, in some measure embarrassing to the Labor Opposition in this country and it would be something that Labor would not want people to be thinking about and discussing. Indeed it might find somewhat embarassing a recent statement of  Mr Charlie  Oliver, a stalwart of the trade union movement in New South Wales, whose comment on the Friends of the Earth was that they should perhaps better be known as enemies of the people'. Indeed Labor supporters might be wondering about a former Labor stalwart in  Sir John  Egerton who very recently of education said: 
Nowhere in Australia do we waste money to such an extent as in education. 
Those statements are made by stalwarts of the Australian Labor Party. I believe that they are statements that would be somewhat embarrassing to the Opposition. Clearly they are statements that it would not want to be discussed by the community in general. Consequently, Labor supporters seek to cover up those sorts of matters and those sorts of embarrassing attitudes by this extraordinary statement that the economy is not being well managed when the facts prove the opposite. Already  Senator Cotton  has indicated statistically a number of areas in which those facts are self evident. 
I do not want to continue longer on the efforts that the Labor Party Opposition has made in repect of matters that it would like to leave concealed. I move on to something more constructive. I remind the Senate of some of the happenings in the 20 months of free enterprise government in this country as a result of two Budgets. We have recognised in the past 1 8 months or so a continual attempt at distortion and confusion by the Opposition, to some degree by the media, and certainly by the minority but outspoken radical leadership of some of the  major  unions. I suggest that these are the guilty entities. These are the people who are delaying the full measures of recovery in the Australian economy. The efforts of the Opposition, of some elements of the media and radicalism in the union movement, have brought about the export from this country of jobs and developmental capital. They have hastened the introduction of highly sophisticated equipment and technology which has slowed down the rate of re-employment. Indeed they have created all sorts of difficulties in established and establishing markets because they have created a measure of confusion and instability. They have made Australia a relatively unreliable source which is a characteristic that has never been typical of this country before. 
I move on to two or three of the areas of the Budget. I ask honourable senators to recognise that in the taxation field there has been a very definite advance indeed. The family allowance scheme and personal tax indexation, at a cost of some billion dollars, were the first of these moves forward in the taxation field which is extraordinarily important in a free enterprise society because, basic to it, is initiative and reward for ininativethe capacity of people to have sufficient money left to them to exercise their choice. That is what it is all about. The taxation reform and cuts in the present Budget are the most dramatic in that particular area for a long time in the parliamentary history in this country. They are introduced to bring about the revival of initiative, a revival of success basically in the private sector because it is only with that sort of revival that we will see a re-employment that has the nature of permanence about it. If we are to solve the unemployment problem in this country, it is to be solved by the desire- the genuine desire of the components of the economy, including commerce and industry- to employ people. It is as simple as that. Honourable senators can come up with all sorts of temporary and crusty sorts of schemes that will solve a problem for a month, six months or a year, but ultimately to solve the unemployment problem in this country we must have a circumstance in which industry and commerce are buoyant, confident and determined as indeed they have been traditionally in the Australian scene. We have modified the tax averaging scheme and the income equalisation deposit scheme. Indeed, there have been no increases in indirect taxation in both of the Budgets this Government has brought down. This is significant in itself, particularly when we remember that in the last Whitlam Budget indirect taxation was increased by about $700m. 
I turn briefly to the rural sector where the main battle has been to control and lower inflation. The rural economy is dependent so much on exports so the cost circumstance in that case is of greater significance than ever. The Government reintroduced the superphosphate bounty and the nitrogenous fertilisers bounty. It has introduced the income equalisation deposit scheme and the investment allowance scheme. It has raised the base price for wool and guaranteed it for some 18 months in advance. It has increased the first advance payment on wheat and has introduced a number of other schemes. Time will not permit me to continue to deal with all these matters so let me say in conclusion that as a Government we are grappling successfully with the basic problems of deficit control which has been reduced by more than half of $1 billion in each of our two Budgets; we are grappling with the problems of tax cuts and tax reforms, and we have effectively established a circumstance in which initiative once again reaps a reward in Australia. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Drake-Brockman)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I am not surprised that  Senator Mulvihill  was keen to talk for some 1 5 minutes or so about the South African and Rhodesian situations, though perhaps he did not intend to do so in the first place. But I can understand that as he sat there and listened to  Senator Sheil  he felt he should make reference to what had been said. I only want to say that I believe that  Senator Sheil,  in his statement in this place tonight, has given us a reasonable, responsible and accurate history of the circumstances in South Africa and Rhodesia. He has inferred quite correctly that probably the greatest service that could be carried out in many countries in the Third World in Africa as well as to South Africa and Rhodesia, would be to recognise that there is a move towards real and responsible reform. I believe that  Senator Mulvihill  indicated that he too agreed that there was a measure of reform, because he quoted the words that too slow a reform breeds revolution. Of course this is so. But I also make the point that it is important to recognise that reform, if it is to be peaceful and if it is to be permanent, has to be of an evolutionary character. 
What I am saying is that we would probably be doing a greater service to the countries in Africa if we recognised their integration with the South African-Rhodesian circumstance and if we recognised that only as a unit can they ultimately survive and prosper. The holocaust that may well otherwise occur in which scores of thousands of white and black Africans may die could serve nobody's purpose. This is the circumstance to which  Senator Sheil  was referring. What he said was a balanced and quiet review of the history of those countries. 

 Mr President, I do not want to continue further along those lines, because in supporting the Budget Papers here tonight and in opposing the amendment I want to confine my remarks to what I hope will be a constructive assessment of this Budget, an assessment which has as its premise the realisation that to be successful- and this is a piece of machinery, if you like, which can be extremely relevant to the recovery of this country, a recovery affecting all the people in this country- it has to have behind it the will of the people. This is my first matter of concern. Since this debate opened several weeks ago, right from the opening Opposition speech of  Senator Wriedt,  the basic contribution of the Opposition has been to distort and to confuse. The point I make is that there is one certain way of causing this Budget or any budget or any piece of legislation to fail and that is to confuse people continually and to distort issues; in other words, not to do as Australians are wont to do- to give it a go. I suggest that the way in which this document, this mechanism, should be looked at from the Australian point of view is as something that has within it the capacity to bring a real measure of survival, affluence and growth to this society and to this economy. Therefore I deplore the attitude which is found not only in the Opposition but also to some measure in the media and to some measure in a very small minority, but a radical and vociferous minority, in trade unions who seem to be absolutely dedicated to distorting and destroying the Budget's capacity to serve the purpose that I believe it certainly can serve and will serve in this community. 
The will of Australians is something which perhaps has been more typical of the Australian character than any other single thing. Australians, since they came to this country, have been confronted by all sorts of problems relative to topography, relative to climate, relative to distance, markets and so on. They have sought to overcome those problems by implementing a will and a determination. I am sure that given a chance and a measure of encouragement to use this particular Budget to overcome the problems that have been building up and confronting them for some four or five years now, they would use that will and determination. I believe that perhaps of all the contributions of the socialist years to this country, the most serious and damaging was the damage done to the will and the character of many Australians. Under the guise of some sort of socialist super-mother or whatever, they lost their determination in some real measure to come to grips with problems and basically to solve them for themselves. They lost the realisation that government is the servant and not the master of the people. They have somehow come to believe that a government alone can solve all their problems. 

 -Well, Senator, your Government could certainly create them. I can recall  Senator Button  and various other members of the Opposition from time to time constantly suggesting or inferring that we were in the 19th century and that there was a worker-boss confrontation referable to that century. Of course that is a damaging concept and an untrue concept. I am saying here tonight that all Australians are beholden to make sure that they recognise that we have grown in the area of industrial relations, that we have grown vastly in the area of mechanisation in the last 100 to 150 years and that we have reached a sophisticated level at which we can, must and will solve the problems that confront us. 
There is no doubt that no government of any political colour and certainly not one of a left or pinkish colour can legislate for some sort of Utopia. We have had evidence of that over the past three or four years. The sooner we recognise that, the sooner we determine that this Budget has the capacity to solve most of our problems and the sooner we get behind it, the sooner we will be successful in meeting and overcoming those problems. In spite of the Opposition, the past 2 1 or 22 months and this Budget have, I believe, given reason to generate the sort of will I feel Australians have lost temporarily. We saw evidence of that when it was suggested by the Commonwealth and all State governments some few months ago that we should, in the course of solving our problems, try to implement a voluntary price-wage freeze. That was accepted by all governments and it was immediately accepted with enthusiasm by the great mass of Australians. Suddenly that latent determination in Australians to solve their own problems was given a real fillip. They felt they had an opportunity to come to grips with the problems and to solve them. Regrettably, the leader of the trade union movement refused even to accept the suggestion in principle. Just as quickly the three Labor governments around Australia withdrew their support and the price-wage freeze, although in some measures successful, was certainly not as successful as it gave every indication of being. Australians lost that measure of enthusiasm and determination that ultimately will be essential if we are going to reach the sort of potential that we have in this country. 
There is reason to generate that willpower in Australians again. I think of only two or three matters that should lead to that generation. I refer to the fact that the rate of inflation in this country is slowing down significantly. In less than 15 months it has fallen by  33Vs  per cent. That is certainly a significant fall. The federalist policy, which the Opposition from time to time seems to enjoy scoffing at, unfortunately for the Opposition gives evidence of being highly successful. Around Australia today the States are bringing down balanced Budgets. They are able to cut taxation. They are able to meet the various demands in important areas. In the Victorian Budget no less than a 12.3 per cent increase in expenditure on education was made possible at the same time as that Government was able to abolish estate duty, as it has been abolished in Queensland and as the Premier of Western Australia has undertaken to do within the life of his present Government. 
I turn to another matter that is relative to the recovery of this economy. I use the word expansion because there are many people, economists, members of the Opposition and journalists in general who say that the way out of the problems that confront Australia is the adoption of an expansionary policy. That seems to infer merely the pumping of masses of money into the economy. It seems to infer an injection of funds basically into the public sector. There is another sort of expansion, another sort of expansionary exercise, with which we must grapple. I believe this Budget does grapple with it. It is an expansion that is relative to confidence. There is no economy on earth that will grow to whatever potential it has unless there can be generated within it a real, proper and enthusiastic measure of expansion and confidence. The matter of confidence in the Australian scene is surely relevant to the capacity and determination of the Government to control its debt and to reduce its deficit, a deficit which grew in three socialist years to enormous proportions. That deficit has been brought under control and reduced most significantly. It is absolutely essential that that should be the case because there is no more inflationary circumstance than a continuing and increasing deficit. It is referable to continuing and increasing unemployment; it is referable to instability in an economy. Regrettably, Australia has become an unreliable country in terms of prices and in terms of capacity to deliver the goods. Likewise, these things are relative to that confidence which we have to generate. 
Those who ignore the importance of controlling a deficit can only aid those whose business it is to destroy the evolutionary, free, democratic Australian process. I am glad to say that those people in this country are few but they are vociferous and they are in important places. The great mass of Australian unionists, I believe, are slowly recognising that their chances are relative to the control of that small force that seeks to upset the evolutionary process that is the Australian way. There has been and still is a real measure of infiltration. The only and perhaps the best way to control infiltration of this nature is through education. I am not going to speak at length on education in statistical terms in this Budget debate. Others have done this and I am sure that others will do it in future. It is a subject that even statistically is quite attractive to talk about in the context of this Budget. I am going to talk about education just for a moment to suggest that it has to be relative to the end product if it is going to provide the sort of braking force that is necessary in a democratic society. We must recognise in education not merely a yardstick which means how many million dollars was spent or what facilities were provided. Of course, they are important but they are not the only or even perhaps even the basic yardstick. The basic yardstick of education in a free society surely must be its ability to produce at the end of the tunnel people who are prepared, willing, able and keen to amass details and facts and, having done that, to analyse them. It is only then by that analytical process that we really have the capacity to survive and to develop as a free democratic society. 
We have to recognise, defend and promote those things that are basic to the society which we have evolved in Australia, the basic cornerstones of a free democracy. They are relative to the security and dignity of the family unit; they are relative to equality of opportunity; they are relative to an acceptance of the profit motive within the law as being something that satisfies human nature more closely than anything else yet devised. They are relative also to a recognition that freedom is a meaningless circumstance unless it is freedom within a measure of restraint, within a measure of discipline, a discipline which is the discipline of the majority. Whilst we recognise in a free society the tremendous importance of pure theories, whether they be economic, social or whatever, we must recognise also the dangers of becoming pawns to ivory towered conceptions, the dangers of assuming that we can solve our problems with a totally laboratory type outlook and that the answers are all in the text books because we are talking about human beings. The answers are not all in the text books. The sooner we recognise this and direct legislation in a direction which recognises that, the sooner we are going to be successful in reaching the potential that we have in this country. 
I believe that the Budget places accent on the Government in its capacity as the servant of the people and not the master of the people. It tends to develop initiative. It tends to bring back reward for initiative. It tends to bring back a measure of reward for thrift. Insofar as it does those things it is basic to the continuing development and survival of a free society. In that context, I digress for just a moment to mention that although there has been significant reform in this Budget, it is my hope that one area of taxation will be attacked by the Government in the near future- perhaps in the next Budget if not before that. I refer to the area of estate duty, which I mentioned quite recently when I referred to some States having seen fit and being able to abolish it. 
I want again to place it on record that this tax is an area of great importance for taxation reform not only because it is an expensive tax, not only because in the federal field it does not produce a significant amount of money, not only because it tends to destroy economic units and to dismember economic units and not only because it tends to drive away from all nature of industries, particularly basic industries, generations of knowledge and expertise but also because it is a bad tax which has to be removed as it tends to cause a significant amount of liquidity to occur in the country which should be devoted to a longterm developmental investment circumstance- a circumstance that will produce jobs and a circumstance that will be relative to productivity. 
-I know that  Senator Button  loves to listen to himself.  His  time will come. Having said that I turn to the situation in Australia from another point of view. I look to Australia as being literally and metaphorically speaking a land of vast horizons. Australia has an enormous resources potential. I believe that it is absolutely essential that we should develop those resources to their maximum for two reasons- firstly, for the affluence of every Australian as an individual and, secondly, for the affluence of Australia itself as a country in order that it can and will, as indeed it must, make a tremendous contribution to the developing world and to the world in general around it. This 
Budget encourages the use and development of the immense and varied resources of this country. I say again that, in the light of the necessity to do these things, Australians should beware of the radical, even if relatively small, element in the trade union leadership that has succeeded over the years in virtually exporting jobs for this country, exporting development capital and hastening the introduction of sophisticated machinery and equipment which, of its very nature, slows down the re-employment process and which has threatened markets, both established and establishing. That is a circumstance that no Australian, no matter what his capacity, can afford to have around him. The market situation alone has seen the loss of a significant wheat market in Chile- worth between $6m and $10m. In the market situation we have seen a dangerous position occur referable to Indonesia. In the Middle East today there has been developed a most exciting market in relation to the livestock industry which again is being threatened from time to time. Of course, there is also the threat over the export of uranium. I repeat that all the people who live in this country cannot afford to deny an opporutnity to develop and use all those assets to the full. 
Not regardless of the conse- quences; because of them. I return very briefly to e objects of the Budget which is under discussion tonight. The Budget seeks to promote and maintain the underlying trend in lowering inflation. It seeks to promote a moderate and non-inflationary rate of growth. It lowers taxation and increases the reward for initiative and consequently is relevant to productivity. It seeks to conserve and develop our national energy resources. It also seeks to apply the maximum care to those areas where there is the maximum need. 
I shall resort for a moment to the use of a few statistics which I believe are relevant to the significance of this Budget. I have already mentioned in general the need to control and lower the deficit. That, as I have mentioned, is relevant to the establishment once again of confidence. Unless we do that there is no way in which we will be able to overcome the unemployment situation with any measure of permanence. The only real solution to the unemployment situation in this country is to be found not in superficial short time exercises but in legislating to create an economy in our society which is determined to get on with the job of production so that industry and commerce literally seek to employ people. That is where permanence is to be found. That and only that is where the solution to the unemployment problem is to be found. 
The deficit has been reduced by well over $500m annually since this Government came to office less than two years ago. That has happened in spite of most dramatic changes in the way of indexation, reform and cuts in the taxation field. I repeat that there has been a reduction in the Budget deficit of more than $500m annually. I believe that that has been a significant contribution to the re-establishment of a measure of confidence in our economy. In the 1976-77 financial year the consumer price index rose by 10.2 per cent compared with the situation in the previous 12 months when there was a rise of 1 5.4 per cent. 
That, of course, is a dramatic change and I do not need to expand on it, but I will make reference to the CPI from a number of points of view. It is my view that the CPI would serve a much greater purpose if it were not to be established at three-monthly periods. I believe that permanence, stability and confidence must be relative to a longer period than three months. Secondly, I believe that the CPI places far too much emphasis on relatively few products that tend to diverge in price quite dramatically and have a totally unrealistic effect on the real cost situation in this country. Thirdly, I believe that it fails to take cognisance of the fact that demand itself changes in character. Consequently the purchasing power of people is not relative purely and simply to a statistic because demand itself is a changing fabric. I believe that we have to recognise that and that the sooner we do so the better. 
The strategy of this Budget has been exposed on a number of occasions. It has two basic facets- to restrain public expenditure and to revitalise the private sector. All around the world in all the developed countries, that strategy is recognised and acclaimed as the correct strategy. It is the strategy of this Budget. It can fail only if the people themselves allow it to fail. I believe that is a significant circumstance which is made a danger by the attitude of  Senator Wriedt  and most of those who have followed him in this debate, who seem to take the view referable to this Budget that the only constructive or responsible thing to do is to distort it and to create mistrust, deception and doubt. Those are the very circumstances and I would say the only circumstances that can destroy its capacity to deliver this country into a period in which its real potential for its citizens and for its place in the world will be achieved. 
I do not intend to go into detail through the various areas of this Budget, but there are a number of statistics of which it is worth reminding the Senate. In the area of social security I did make a note that  Senator Coleman  accused this Government of being one of the most conservative governments of all time. We have just increased social security and social service payments by 13 per cent. Social security and social service expenditure involves 56 per cent of the total personal income tax in this country and 27 per cent of the total revenue. Yet  Senator Coleman  says that we are the most conservative government. That is an extraordinary definition of conservatism. On education we have spent $2.37 billion. In health expenditure we have in fact already cut out a great measure of waste and I believe that ultimately the community will recognise it. Health expenditure alone is $2.8 billion. The defence allocation is $2.4 billion. In overseas aid there has been an increase of 12 per cent or $426m. I believe it is correct that that sort of increase should be so, but it is hardly the action of a conservative government. The fact that we are increasing overseas aid highlights the responsibility of the Budget and the long term attitude of this Government itself. Unless there is a continuing and increasing measure of overseas aid, unless there is a significant economic and social development of the undeveloped world then, of course, the ultimate future of the developed world is at stake. That is a program that has to be applauded and it is certainly not related to the traditional concept of conservatism. 
In transport and communication the Government has once again, two budgets in a row, not increased postal or telephonic charges. I seem to recall that postal charges were increased from something like 7c to 18c in three years of the socialist regime. For the second time we have not increased indirect taxation. There has been no increase in taxes on beer, tobacco, cigarettes and spirits for the second time since the last LiberalCountry Party Government in 1972. There has been no increase in air navigation charges. There has been no reintroduction of television and radio licence charges. In fact, practically every suggestion or prediction of disaster has proved to be utterly and absolutely wrong. 
I turn very briefly to rural industry. Our Budget has been attacked by various sources for its effect on rural industry. The most significant thing that can be contributed to rural industry is a continuing and successful attack on inflation. The costs of traditional rural industry in Australia are of immense importance. That industry alone, of all industries in Australia, is dependent from between 65 per cent and 90 per cent on overseas markets. In world trade there is no special consideration for Australian costs. Consequently, the first and most significant attack on behalf of the rural community in this country must continue to be the attack on inflation itself. Other elements of this Budget are significant from a rural point of view. I name only a few. I recall $53m for re-establishment and rural industry adjustment. I recall $3 1.4m for the wool industry research and promotion- an increase in one year in excess of $ 10m. I recall $ 1 5m for the campaign to eradicate tuberculosis and brucellosis in the cattle herd. I recall some $40m to retain the superphosphate bounty and a further $l2m for the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. The national rural bank is practically here. People may well say: 'Well, it has taken long enough'. But it is an extremely difficult institution to establish, and it warrants the greatest of care and responsibility in producing something that is to be of real value to the whole of the rural industries. 
It was in the very first Budget that this Government made such extraordinarily wide contributions to rural industry. People seem to want to forget about them, especially people on the opposite side of this chamber perhaps and well they may. In the very first few months the first advance for wheat was increased by 20 per cent. The base average price for wool was increased from 250c to 284c, and it was increased not only for 1976-77 but also for 1977-78.I seem to recall some consternation one year about what the price of wool would be and it being decided in the middle of May what the price of wool would be in August. So in fact the Government has contributed a great deal to those basic industries of wheat and wool. It introduced income equalisation deposits. It introduced the investment allowance not only to rural industry but also significantly to the whole range of industry and commerce. So the Government has contributed significantly to the rural sector. Why would it not? 
The beef industry has received considerable attention in the very recent past. As  Senator Georges  would know, there is no simple and quick solution to an industry which finds itself quite suddenly and unpredictably without the greatest measure of its market.  Senator Georges  knows that there is no simple, quick solution to that problem. Even carcass cl assification itself is a long term solution and, in terms of months or even 12 months, it is only the beginning. 
I go on to refer to the payment to the States in this Budget. I am not going into that in any great detail except to remind the Senate that the States have received an increase of practically 1 7 per cent over the last year's payments and local government has received in excess of 1 8 per cent. The total that will be paid to the States is the massive sum of $10 billion. Is it any wonder that the States find themselves in an attractive and relatively affluent situation? In the area of taxation, as I said before- I am not going into this in any detail- we have not only introduced indexation fully within one year but we have also made the most significant cuts and reforms in the taxation history of this country. These are reforms that are going to ensure that people are rewarded for extra effort; reforms that are going to develop a real measure of initiative, a real increase in productivity, a real opportunity to develop this country as indeed it should and must be developed. In Australia there are 225,000 people, including many pensioners, who now pay no tax at all and 90 per cent of Australian taxpayers pay no more than a maximum of 32c in the dollar. It is worth remembering that a person receiving up to $16,000 a yearin fact pays 24c in the dollar. The coal export duty has been reduced by another $ 1 a tonne on prime quality coal and 50c a tonne on second grade coal or lower grade coal. This duty is to be totally abolished in 12 months' time. In the crude oil area we have had to do what no government likes doing. We have had to cause an increase in the price of crude oil in order that we may meet the quite dangerous circumstances in relation to energy that confront this country and not only this country but also the entire world. We have introduced a system of increasing the price of crude oil which consequently will increase the price of petrol by some 10c or11ca gallon. It might be worth saying that in retrospect I recall my Leader in the House of Representatives some three or four years ago suggesting that it may well be sensible, in order to keep the rigs working and keep on developing and exploring, to increase the price of crude oil by 40 per cent or the price of petrol by 2c a gallon, but that was not good enough then. Today it is accepted that this as minimum should be our contribution and indeed it is. If honourable senators go around the countryside crying about 10c or 1 lc- indeed there are many who will- remember, as I seem to recall, that in three years of socialist administration something like 15c as added to the price of a gallon of petrol for no other reason than to increase revenue. 
I suggest that this Budget gives ground for cautious optimism. I suggest that it builds sensibly on what was started in 1 976-77. It grapples with the deficit. It grapples with the energy problem realistically. It grapples effectively with tax and with initiative. These matters are the prerequisites of success. They are basic to this Budget. They are basic to the success of this country. Because the Opposition is somewhat dramatically opposed to our contribution in the tax field I recall to the minds of honourable senators that in the three years of socialism the tax grab increased by 89 per cent. 
I believe that the Budget Papers are worthy of support from all sides in the community and I make the point again that their success is dependent not only on the legislation itself but also on the determination of Australians not to keep on knocking it, not to keep on confusing matters and on the determination of Australians to get on with the job and to make work a mechanism that has the ingredients within it to produce an affluence for all Australians and for Australia itself. I support the Budget Papers and I wholeheartedly oppose the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt). 
I rise to oppose the allegation that the Opposition brings of the Government's disregard of increasing unemployment. Before I say a few words that hopefully will be constructive in some measure, let me say that if thoughts of an election are not generating much excitement in many fields they certainly are generating an extraordinary measure of excitement in  Senator Wheeldon,  who left his seat and paraded around the aisle as he became more and more enthralled in the question whether there should or should not be an election. Indeed,  Senator Wheeldon  's contribution was one of eloquent entertainment.  Senator Button,  who led for the Opposition, somewhat uncharacteristically seemed to provide for us today something of a noisy venom. But neither really got down to the proposition which they promote. They allege that there is a disregard by the Government of increasing unemployment. 
It is most appropriate that the Opposition should follow this matter of unemployment through to the ultimate conclusion and hopefully, I believe, to the ultimate solution. Opposition members having created this monster themselves with great keenness and great capacity, it is only logical to assume that they will continue to follow it through. Indeed, that is what they are doing. They have talked about it as a matter of urgency on two occasions in three weeks. So I presume that they are extraordinarily anxious about the welfare and progress, or whatever, of this monster of their own creation. I commend them for having recognised that this is what they produced and for being determined to see whether it prospers. The Government has a quite contrary determination to see that it is brought under control- indeed, it is being brought under control- and finally reduced significantly. 
To me, it is totally ridiculous to assume- I do not believe that members of the Opposition seriously assume- that we as a government, or even they as a government, would disregard continuing and increasing unemployment. No government in a free, democratic society is likely ever to disregard unemployment. It is a pathetic assertion. I am somewhat surprised that the Opposition should bring this matter into the Senate twice in three weeks. I believe that it is an insult to the intelligence of the Austraiian people to think that they would assume that a government of their choice would totally disregard an unemployment situation in their midst. Of course, this is not the case. Maybe it is another ploy to add confusion and distortion to the circumstances that surround the efforts of this Government to bring this economy or this society out of the trough into which it had fallen. If there is one certain way of delaying recovery in this country, if there is one certain way of delaying the reemployment of people, I believe that it is to confuse the Australian society continually about what is going on, what are the real measures, what are the real values and what are the real things which we seek. 
If confusion is the aim, then of course by producing this mass of statistics Opposition senators can succeed in some measure in eroding the confidence which alone will solve the unemployment problem. That sort of erosion has been evidenced not only today during Question Time but also certainly on a number of occasions in recent days by what I suppose we could call the Hayden dollar value episode. If ever an irresponsible proposition was put to the Australian people, it is the constant questioning by a pseudo-economist and pseudo-Deputy Leader of the Opposition in this country and his casting doubt on the value of the Australian currency. That is a great contribution to re-employment. That is a great contribution to recovery in this country! 
Let me turn very briefly to why unemployment is with us today. Quite clearly, no one can deny that it increased from 2 per cent in round figures to 5 per cent in the three years of socialist operation. Quite clearly, it must be referable in some way to the main characteristic of that period, which was an expansion of wages, an escalation of wages, never seen before in this country's history and totally unaccompanied by an increase in productivity. This is the basic cause of unemployment. So basic and so real is it that  Mr Whitlam  himself finally in January of 1975, in a long speech in Adelaide to the Young Labor Association, admitted that wages and wages alone were the basic cause of inflation and unemployment in this country. Not only did  Mr Whitlam  say this; he recognised - 
-If the honourable senator thinks that  Mr Whitlam  is wrong, he would not be alone. Of course,  Mr Whitlam  said this and the proposition was supported by  Mr Cameron,  one of his senior Ministers, who said that one man's pay rise was another man's job. So it is pretty clear that the cause of the present unemployment was basically an irresponsible escalation of the wage rates in the Australian economy.  Mr Whitlam  should know, because he was the man, along with his team, who nurtured the monster that he created. In trying to find temporary and desperate solutions he introduced the Regional Employment Development scheme; but within a few months of introducing it he found that that scheme was bankrupt. This Government , on a contrary course and a responsible course, has sought to restrain wage rises and public expenditure. It has done so most effectively. It is concerned to increase, by bringing some measure of reward to initiative, the operation of productivity in the private sector. In the private sector occurs 75 per cent plus of employment in this country. That is the responsible attitude to take to the unemployment circumstance with which we are faced. There are interim schemes and superficial solutions, but they will not suffice. The unemployment solution which this Government clearly understandsand I believe at base the whole Australian population understands- is related to the establishment of an economic and social circumstance in which industry and commerce generated by productivity literally go out to seek labour. 
There is a real expansionary stability and confidence in an economy. Until we succeed in establishing that sort of economy in Australia, we cannot succeed in dramatically changing the unemployment circumstance. We have arrested its rate of increase. Its rate of increase for 12 months was 0.2 of one per cent which compares to an average just in excess of one per cent per annum during the Whitlam years. We have arrested the rate of increase. We are certainly not happy with that alone. We are not happy with an unemployment situation at all. We are responsible enough to recognise that the solution lies not in temporary bits and pieces but in bringing the economy back to a realisation that only in a successful, developing and productive private sector in particular lies ultimate employment for all the people in this country. 
I recall that  Senator Button  in one of his cynical moments had something to say about the price of apples and pears. He said that we were more concerned about the price of apples and pears than we were about unemployment. That is a pretty silly statement. The price of apples and pears is far more relevant to employment of people than the sort of windy venom that was expressed by  Senator Button  in this chamber this afternoon. The sooner people recognise that the price of apples and pears and the situation of industry and commerce across the board are relevant to re-employment and to continuing employment in this country the sooner we will find a solution to the unemployment problem. 
To the end which leads to re-employment- to a greater measure of productivity and developmentthis Budget and the previous Budget have indeed contributed a great deal. We have introduced tax indexation which, incidentally,  Mr Whitlam  refused to introduce and consequently grabbed in private personal income tax an increase of 89 per cent in three years. We introduced tax indexation. In this Budget we have introduced the most significant personal income tax cuts and reforms that have yet been introduced into a Parliament. These will be basic, along with the investment allowance, income equalisation deposits and the many other legislative measures, to the development of a situation in which initiative once again receives a proper reward, in which people are able to take home more of the money they earn and in which people are able to use and exploit the choices that they may have. That is what a free society is all about. 
In the few moments left, I ask the Senate to consider another factor in the causes of unemployment. I believe that the causes of unemployment in this country, in spite of the remarks of  Senator Wheeldon  and  Senator Button,  are certainly related to the small radical element of trade union leadership. That is what unemployment is related too. The socialist Government took no cognizance of that fact and certainly took no action on it. The small section of the trade union movement has sought, over the last three, four or five years in particular, extreme wage rises. It has associated that seeking with industrial unrest of tremendous proportions. We see today, as has been instanced in this debate, the Victorian situation where literally half a million people are unemployed because of industrial disruption alone. The people responsible have exported jobs from this country. They have exported developmental capital. They have hastened the introduction of sophisticated mechanised equipment which of itself must reduce the rate of re-employment. They have priced Australia out of export markets, and in many cases of industrial unrest have threatened our established markets and our establishing markets. That sort of circumstance can do nothing but make an unemployment situation in this country infinitely worse. 
I do not want to cover the ground that has been so ably covered by  Senator Durack  when he instanced the constructive measures that have been taken to help the employment situation. As I conclude my remarks, let me say that this Government is aware of the unemployment situation. The Government is grappling with it to control it on a proper and permanent basis. The Government will overcome the problem despite the Opposition's contributions which seem basically to be concerned with nurturing the child it reared. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) Are staff joining the Commonwealth Banking Corporation still required to give written acknowledgment that they will serve anywhere; if so, is such acknowledgment common to all Commonwealth instrumentalities. 
Do Corporation staff have any choice in point of service such as exists in the Public Service, or does the Corporation still, without regard to length of service, use the written acknowledgment to enforce transfers. 
Has the Corporation in recent years insisted that staff transferred from capital cities to country appointments must clear housing loans; if so, (a) was this policy required by the Commonwealth Banks Act, (b) what was the economic effect on the same officers transferred back to capital cities, and (c) what consideration did the Corporation give to the financial losses suffered by these officers in having to purchase homes again on a greatly inflated market. 
In regard to compensation for injury, is the Corporation required to give proper notice to its employees as to their rights, such as is required by Workers Compensation Acts; if so, do the Corporation's instructions clearly indicate to officers injured on duty (a) that a certain Act applies and ( b ) any restriction of claims by effluxion of time. 
If an officer transferred to a country appointment required specialised medical treatment only available by residence in a capital city, does the Corporation take, or has it taken, the attitude that the request represents an application for transfer on behalf of the officer, and therefore the Corporation is not liable for any travelling or living expenses incurred in obtaining the medical treatment, even though the officer has been transferred to the country by the Corporation. 
Are managers of the Corporation restricted in their promotional opportunities by being required by any policy of the Corporation that they must serve a fixed term in each appointment before they are considered for further promotion; if so, is this requirement also applied to other officers. 
During inspection of branches of the Corporation, are staff privately interviewed by the senior inspecting officer. 
During these interviews are staff encouraged to speak openly of their feelings towards the manager. 
Is the manager never acquainted of the information gained by the inspecting officer in these interviews. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I ask: Is it a fact that the Fraser Government's new federalism policy has enabled all States in the last two years to cut State taxes, increase expenditure and balance their budgets? Is this pattern true of the Wran Budget, released by the New South Wales Premier to the media last night? 
I rise to support the recommendations and the conclusions of the Sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which investigated the Middle East situation. In doing so, I want to say how much I appreciate the fact that on this sub-committee I happened to be one of only two Government members, along with four members of the Opposition, under the distinguished chairmanship of the honourable Kim Beazley. I found that it was an exhilarating experience, especially when compared to the episode of bells and corridor trotting that we have had today, to find that in those circumstances we could examine a matter and come to a reasonable and responsible consensus. 
Debate interrupted. 
I rise to support the legislation that is before the Senate. I am somewhat surprised and a little disappointed to see the total opposition to this legislation from the Opposition this afternoon. After all, it is not really legislation of a nature to bring out the sort of emotionalism that we have been listening to for most of the afternoon- in fact, for most of the day. This legislation amends a very basic section of Australian industrial law. It relates to the establishment, one would hope and believe, of industrial peace and proper relations between the mass of trade unionists and government and employers in this country. It is only when we reach a proper measure of industrial peace and responsibility that this country will climb properly and totally out of the gulf into which it has fallen in recent years. The purpose of this legislation is to protect the individual and the public interest. I believe there would not be one Australian in a hundred who would not say that to protect the individual and the public interest is not a proper and tremendously important objective. 
I noted with interest that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  and a number of other Opposition speakers have referred to this legislation as being dictatorial. It seems a strange confusion to suggest that something which seeks to allow the individual a greater measure of freedom and to allow him to take action behind an authority which he may not seek to take as an individual for various and proper reasons is dictatorial. There is no suggestion whatever in this proposed legislation that dictatorship is the matter. Indeed, the contrary is the case. This legislation aims to give a real measure of freedom to the individual within the industrial sphere and a greater measure of protection to the Australian public. The suggestion that it is dictatorial is quite crazy.  Senator Wriedt  went on in his usual pattern, a pattern that has been accepted as typical of the pattern of the Opposition in any debate in this chamber for a considerable period, to promote doom. He went on to say that next year unemployment will be worse, the economy will be on the slide and so on, when the facts and figures prove that that is not the case. That sort of promotion and prediction is the best contribution that  Senator Wriedt  and the Opposition could make in regard to the slowing-down recovery in this economy. 
Once again he referred to indexation and suggested that the Government had dishonoured an election promise referable to indexation. That of course, is not the case. Indexation, as it was promoted in days prior to the election of December 1975, referred not to a mere statistical, mechanical exercise of adjusting wages exactly to movements in the consumer price index every time there was a move. That is not what indexation had to be related to purely and simply. It has to be related to the capacity of an economy to pay. It has to be related to productivity if it is to be of any use at all. Otherwise, it is merely a measure by which is built into the economy the ill that may happen to be there. One of the other remarkable features of the performance of honourable senators opposite today has been that almost to a man they have complained - 
-In fairness to  Senator Melzer,  I do not think she actually complained about this matter. Opposition senators certainly complained that there has been too much haste; that they have been rushed into the piece of legislation; that there has not been time to consider it; that it is perhaps ill-conceived; and that they have not had the time to see what the ills may be. Yet, with the opportunity to spend at least two or three hours discussing the legislation, they have probably spent less than 20 per cent of that time referring to the legislation itself. Let us see whether it is really a hasty piece of work. After all, the legislation before us is the introduction of the final chapter of the industrial relations policy of the Government parties prior to the 1975 election. It is almost identical to the policy that was expounded in those days. Since those days there has been a very gradual approach to this ultimate position. The policy became a reality in March of this year when the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation was introduced. In May of this year the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau with the powers of the Inspectorate was accepted by the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Also accepted was the re-establishment of the National Labour Consultative Council. Since those days there have been three meetings of the NLCC. The provisions in this legislation have been discussed at the highest levels referable to the employer, the employee and the Government over a period of months. To suggest that this is something that is ill-conceived, that it is rushed, that it has come out of the blue, and that there has not been enough time to talk about it is a pretty pathetic and shallow criticism. 
In the few moments that I have at my disposal I intend to refer to one or two of the statements I have listened to in the chamber during the course of the day.  Senator Button  who opened the debate on behalf of the Opposition mentioned that it is not possible to legislate industrial peace. Of course it is not possible to legislate industrial peace. It is not possible to legislate anything in a democracy. The only time legislation has little chance of failing is if it is introduced in a society that holds a gun.  Senator Melzer  referred to people with guns. Thank goodness in Australia we do not associate legislation with people with guns. We cannot legislate industrial peace,  Senator Button  says, and I agree that we cannot; but we can and we must legislate in a manner in which industrial peace can be achieved responsibly. 
That is what this legislation is all about. Whether it is successful partially or totally is almost entirely dependent on the determination of the great mass of Australian trade unionists, the great mass of Australian employers and the Government and the Opposition. Legislation is a vehicle, a mechanism. It is up to all of us in Parliament and up to Australians across the country to make sure that the vehicle, the mechanism, that the Government provides in fact achieves the objectives that it sets out to achieve.  Senator Button  was quite right in saying that we cannot legislate industrial peace, but I hope that he goes on to recall that he and those who are with him have a responsibility to see that legislation that has the capacity to bring about industrial peace and all those things consequent upon it such as the achievement of the potential of this country for the people and for the country itself is effective. 
Today  Senator Bishop's  speech seemed to be typical of  Senator Bishop  because he appeared to have some sort of Bob Hawke phobia. He said that the trade union movement is of great importance all around the world. No one will disagree with that statement. Of course it is. It is of great importance in Australia, although its importance has changed over the years. It has changed its character, and that is why this sort of legislation is necessary. No longer are trade unions in Australia basically concerned with the conditions and wages of their members. No longer is that their number one priority. Instead they have moved towards a position where they tend to promote political ideological and related economic and social goals. It is time that we in this country realised that economic and social goals run on parallel tracks and not on divergent tracks. It is high time that all Australians and all members of Parliament recognised that these things are parallel to each other and do not run at cross purposes. 

 Senator Bishop went on to say that the problems are not the fault of the trade union movement but are the result of the state of the economy. I must remind him and the Opposition that the state of the economy is showing a significant move upwards. When it reached its lowest point, it was the result of the actions of  Senator Bishop's  Prime Minister. He was the architect of that magnificent fall over a period of three years of socialist experiment.  Senator Bishop  also said that the issue is whether a government can confuse a people. Of course the main contribution of the Opposition in this debate today, if it has been a contribution at all, has been a contribution of confusion. This is the one thing that will make industrial peace and economic and social recovery more difficult to achieve. Confusion is the Opposition's contribution. Confusion certainly will lead to problems lasting over a much longer time than necessary. 
It is a red herring to talk about a reduced level of industrial unrest. In fact, it is just another debating tactic. A few people are creating immense problems for literally hundreds of thousands. That is an industrial exercise, and it is being practised by the radical Left in Australia today. One of the ways to overcome it is to implement the legislation that is before us this afternoon.  Mr President,  I commend that legislation to the chamber. 
I support the Oilseed Levy Bill 1977 and the Oilseed Levy Collection and Research Bill 1977. 1 am glad to observe that the Opposition also supports these Bills. They are important. They refer to an important industry in the general context of agriculture in this country. The proposition that there should be an expanded oilseed research scheme first came into prominence in June 1975 when the Oilseed Committee of the Australian Wheat Board sought to bring such a scheme into operation. I believe it is appropriate that an organisation as large, as important and as efficient as the Australian Wheat Board should have within it committees such as the Oilseed Committee capable of looking after the interests of its own industry within the wider context of agriculture. After a considerable number of discussions within the industry, between industries and with State and Federal governments it was finally decided that a statutory research scheme should be established for the oilseed industry. This scheme was put to the Australian Agricultural Council. The Ministers concerned agreed to it in February 1 977. 
The purpose of the scheme is to provide the money seen to be necessary for a proper measure of research into this important industry. It is to provide by way of levy moneys to research the areas involved in the production of sunflower, safflower, linseed and two other oilseeds, rape seed and soya bean. It also has the capacity to add by regulation any other oil bearing seed product as such addition may become necessary. In a discussion of this nature it is probably worth reflecting on a few areas in which research may be of great value to this industry. I call to mind in the Senate tonight only two or three such areas. Of course, there are many more. In the Australian production of sunflower, for instance, in perhaps the driest continent on earth where the conservation and economic use of moisture is immensely important it is essential that we develop a sunflower plant that does not have a stalk which measures 516 feet to 7 feet in length. That sort of stalk uses an excessive amount of moisture. If research can produce, as unquestionably it can, a dwarf variety with a stalk half or even one-third of that length the conservation of moisture which will result will be of great significance to the industry. 
That is just one instance of the sort of objective that research in the oilseed industry referable to sunflowers in particular may well have. In the production of unseed the objective should be to produce an earlier flowering strain which flowers at a time which avoids frost but which at the same time develops a pod and seed which will receive the least possible harm from the heat of the summer. That is the ideal strain to develop. Similarly with rape seed where shattering is of enormous importance, sometimes causing losses of 30 per cent and 40 per cent of seed, the objective of research in the first instance must be to establish a plant with a pod which is not as susceptible to shattering as is commonly the case. The proposed levy is to be $1 a tonne in the first instance. There is a capacity to increase that amount to $2 a tonne by regulation. The $1 a tonne will produce $200,000 to be matched by a Commonwealth grant of similar amount. The initial $400,000 should presumably enable a very significant measure of research to be carried out in this industry. The proviso also exists that unless 1 5 tonnes are produced a grower will not be held responsible for paying the levy. 
I turn very briefly to the Oilseed Levy Collection and Research Bill. This establishes a Research Trust Account. The levy is to be deducted from the grower by the purchaser. The purchaser is to be held responsible for paying the money into Consolidated Revenue, from which revenue will be taken and placed in the Research Trust Account. It will then be matched by the Commonwealth contribution. To oversee this research scheme a committee of nine people will be established. Five of them will be producer or grower representatives. There will be one representative from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, one representative from the universities, one representative from the Department of Primary Industry and one person representing the Australian Agricultural Council. The purpose of the committee will be to advise the Minister for Primary Industry as to the proper and appropriate avenues of expenditure in carrying out research in the oilseed industry. 
I do not want to speak at any great length on these Bills. I shall close my remarks with a few general comments on the oilseed industry. I believe it should be acknowledged that this industry has a considerable potential in the field of Australian agriculture, relative to both irrigation and dry land agriculture. In a few years it will give a greater measure of flexibility and variability to our agricultural industry and so will add significantly to its strength. Research programs in this industry are in line with the Government's insistence on maintaining a high level of research across the whole area of Australian agriculture. We have seen significant efforts in research in the wool, wheat, meat and dairying industries- in fact, right across the canvass of agricultural products. The dividends paid to those industries and to the Australian economy by a high level of research are very significant. 
The oilseed industry in Australia at the moment produces about $40m in products. It is interesting to remember that the Australian market for oilseed is only half served by our own local production. Obviously there is considerable potential within as well as without the Australian scene. Linseed production in Australia in particular has considerable aptitude to the agricultural scene. It is a plant which fits into the agricultural cycle either at the beginning or at the end. It is a product which is not susceptible to some of the diseases found in highly fertile land such as foot rot and take-all. Consequently, it is a good first plant. Equally, in the final link ofthe cycle, in association with the production of linseed it is extremely easy to establish pastures in the form of legumes, lucerne and subterranean clover because these are not as dense as the traditional cereal product; they are open to much more air and sun and are therefore much more effective as a cover. I have pleasure in supporting the legislation. I believe that research is essential and that the legislation provides the system and method by which it can be implemented. 
I rise to make a few brief comments on the proposed redistribution in New South Wales. I do not intend to make any allegations, but I do feel that there is a need for me to express a measure of concern, particularly in relation to one or two electorates. As a member of the coalition Government parties, I do not seek, as the Opposition has done, to oppose the redistribution in New South Wales; but I believe that certain things must be considered more closely in the future. The relevance of the guidelines that are used in drawing up electorates in this country has to be considered, as well as the way in which those guidelines are applied when a redistribution takes place. I believe that in regard to two electorates in western New South Wales there have been some strange- I leave it at that- interpretations of the provisions relating to size, community of interest and communications. It is certainly my hope that that sort of thing will not occur again. 
In the electorate of Riverina, there has been a constant complaint over the years from all parties who have represented that seat about its massive size. I believe and will continue to believe that equality of representation is not purely and simply a statistic in which one equals one and that is the only answer. Equality of representation must be related to the capacity of people to represent the electorate, and with that in view the statistical concept of one vote one value certainly has to be adjusted. The proposed Riverina electorate in New South Wales is quite enormous. It covers one-third of the State of New South Wales and extends from east of the Murrumbidgee River to the Victorian, South Australian and Queensland borders. Incidentally, it is an area which has very poor lines of communication from east to west and in which there now seems to be almost no community of interest. The original seat of Riverina produces 95 per cent of Australia's rice. It has a very intensive irrigation area and large scale, extensive agricultural and pastoral pursuits. Into that relatively consolidated electorate has now been introduced the quite massive and very fine city of Broken Hill- a city of some 30,000 people, a mining and industrial centre whose community of interest with the rest of the Riverina is very difficult to identify. I do not think that situation leads to better and more effective representation. 
As far as communications are concerned, it is interesting to note that mail sent from Deniliquin, which is one of the heart towns of the Riverina, to Broken Hill travels from Deniliquin to Sydney and then to Broken Hill. That seems to be an extraordinary situation. The distance from Griffith to Broken Hill or from Deniliquin to Broken Hill is in the vicinity of 700 kilometres and the distance from Sydney to Hay or Sydney to Griffith is also about 700 kilometres. Theoretically at least, it would be just as logical for the representative of the Riverina to live in the heart of Sydney as it would be for him to live in Griffith, Deniliquin or one of the other Riverina towns, in terms of his representation of Broken Hill. 
I do not want to take up more of the Senate's time in discussing the electorate of Riverina, but I do want to refer very briefly to another most important and quite famous rural seat in western New South Wales, the seat of Calare. The Commissioners' redistribution of that seat indicates that once again community of interest has been ignored totally. Calare was an electorate which had four major towns. It was an area of light industry and commercial enterprise, backed by varied and significant agricultural and pastoral pursuits, as well as all the service industries that are dependent on that sort of operation. But some extraordinary things have happened in this redistribution. For instance, the twin towns- I believe that the people there like to call them the twin cities- of Parkes and Forbes, which are only 20 miles apart, are now in different electorates. Surely, in considering community of interest, some account has to be taken of political affiliation or political representation. It seems quite crazy that towns of 9,000 and 10,000 people should be divided. Both towns use the same facilities in the form of an abattoir, the Twin City Drive-in and the various other facilities which apply to both towns. The airport at Parkes serves the people of Forbes and its district just as much as it serves the people of Parkes and its district. In this area it is quite crazy and hard to understand why this decision has been made. 
Similarly, Orange and Bathurst have a community of interest ranging over a wide field, including education and research. On the other hand, in the north, the Mudgee- Wellington areas are divided. They have a community of interest and now find themselves in different electorates. To the east, separated significantly by the Blue Mountains, Lithgow, Wallerawang and Portland find themselves part of an electorate complex which includes Orange, Bathurst, Parkes, Lithgow and other towns which are highly industrialised rnining centres with all the facilities necessary in that sort of area. They face the peculiar problem of that sort of area. It is totally difficult to understand how it could be conceived that the joining of that area to the traditional western commercial and agricultural area in any way relates to community of interest. 
Having made those few remarks referable to those two electorates in western New South 
Wales I confine my expression of concern to the fact that I believe that in future guidelines will have to be looked at time and again. We will have to look at the question of whether the original 20 per cent tolerance which operated in this country for some 70 years does not, in fact, give the rest of Australia a better opportunity for equality of representation than the present circumstance. With those few remarks I advise that I too support the redistribution. 
I rise to speak briefly in support of the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Amendment Bill which, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland has explained, seeks to maintain the nitrogenous fertilisers subsidy which amounts to some $ 12m for another 1 2 months to 3 1 December 1 978. At that stage it will be reviewed, and that seems to be a responsible attitude to take, in view of the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. The application of nitrogen in Australian agricultural industry is immensely important. It is necessary in order to provide the fertility that is needed both for germination and for the growth of the plant life itself over a quite wide range of crops. Perhaps the most significant crop in this respect is sugar. Nitrogen has the capacity to improve the soil considerably when the soil structure and type are incapable of producing the legumes which themselves take in nitrogen from the air and provide nitrogen in the soil. In that circumstance, unless one is able to apply nitrogen directly the plant growth is seriously hampered and in many cases made quite impossible. 
The nitrogen industry itself is of significance and the subsidy is of importance in maintaining a level of activity both in the manufacture of nitrogen and amongst the people who are involved in applying it to the soil. In general terms, the application of nitrogen increases the immense potential for crops and pastures and consequently for stock in the Australian agricultural scene. Without nitrogen our production capacity would be lowered significantly. It is essential that this form of aid be available to producers in agricultural Australia. It is important because we have a great capacity in primary industry, yet all the traditional primary industries of this country are faced with a cost structure over which we have little control. It is an internal structure based on a land which fortunately has a high standard of living. However, it is a problem in the total context of agriculture because the vast mass of agriculture production, to an extent ranging from 60 per cent up to 95 per cent and more, must find markets outside Australia. The prices that prevail in these markets take no cognisance of the cost of production of Australian primary industry. Therefore, this sort of subsidy or this sort of aid to production is an essential part of the development of that industry in Australia. 
There is another point which I believe should be made. Expenditure by way of subsidy, as is the case in this Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Amendment Bill, represents a successful, reasonable and responsible investment. The added return from agriculture and from the products which are produced will bring back to the Australian economy, in the form of overseas exchange and in the form of revenue through taxation on greater production, moneys which probably far exceed the cost of the subsidy itself. I make this comment in closing my remarks: It is appropriate that we should apply this nitrogenous fertilisers subsidy for another 12 months. It is totally in line with the attitude of this Government to primary industry across the board. In the relatively short time that the Liberal and National Country Parties have been in government on this occasion we have aided significantly that important area of the Australian economy by the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty, by increasing the first advance payment on the Australian wheat crop by some 20 per cent, by increasing and maintaining over a prolonged period the base price of wool, by introducing income equalisation deposits and by a considerable number of other significant measures. It is with pleasure that I support this piece of legislation for the maintenance of the subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers. 
-Has the attention of the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs been drawn to recent Press reports in which the Secretary of the Local Government and Shires Associations in New South Wales,  Mr Graeme  Miles, gives the Fraser Government credit for keeping local government rates down in New South Wales? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the average percentage increase in local government rates m New South Wales and also the amounts which local councils in New South Wales have received through this Government's new federalism policy? 
I rise to support the Governor-General's Speech and to oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition to the motion for the AddressinReply. Before I say a few words on this matter I would like to congratulate  Senator Haines.  Unfortunately I was not able to be in the chamber when she spoke but I believe she spoke well and has successfully overcome her first hurdle in the chamber. We have just been listening to  Senator McLaren.  I have the feeling that we are somewhat indebted to Senators Messner. Young and Jessop for having engendered such an excited and emotional contribution. As I listened to  Senator McLaren  my only feeling was that his speech was in the form of a defence of his State Premier. If that is what he was doing, so far as excitement and emotion are concerned, if not with reference to fact, he was quite successful. 
I have always regarded the Address-in-Reply debate as an opportunity for members of the Senate to reflect on a number of things, not to confine themselves to specific matters so much as to look around them and to make some general and, hopefully, constructive remarks. It is with that in mind that I propose to speak for a short while this afternoon. This is an opportunity to stir constructive thought. After all, I suppose the opportunity to do this is basically what a democracy is all about. The strength and permanence of the sort of society and political institution under which we live is relevant to the determination of people to reflect on what goes on around them, on their methods of government, and on their contribution and acceptance of the legislation under which they live. Consequently, I believe it is relevant to say that it is on the determination and capacity of people to collect information, sift it and analyse it, that the future of this free enterprise democracy, as of any free enterprise democracy around the world, is largely dependent. 
In the course of speeches in the Senate during this debate many senators have been highly critical of what they term the bias of the media in its many forms. One of the best ways that we in a free society can control the media and offset the alleged bias is by a determination to get down to the facts and to analyse them. If we do this we are our own police force and we maintain and develop our own system. With these things in mind, I thought I might make some opening remarks by referring to the free enterprise democratic system, which is the system we have evolved in Australia. It is the system under which we operate and have developed to become a great and significant country in this part of the world and, indeed, in the world in general. I believe it is important that we should analyse the system under which we live, particularly at this stage. After three years of socialist experiment the Australian electorate has quite clearly and quite dramatically thrown overboard the socialist system. It has spoken strongly on two occasions in just over two years and it has endorsed the Australian way, the free enterprise democracy of people living within a legal system of restraint which they have developed themselves and which they impose themselves. Consequently, we must look at this system which we have developed and promote. 
More and more Australians I believe are aware that there is no such thing as a socialist Utopia. That is a matter for pages of reading matter. It is a matter which I believe is little more than a figment of the imagination of some people. More and more Australians have become aware in recent years that the great state, portrayed as the great provider, the one to look after everybody, is really incapable of provision beyond the sort of provision that the people themselves make. If the State is to provide, it can do so only by taking from the people. This system has been revealed as unsatisfactory. The more one seeks of the State, the more it has to take from the people who form it. Consequently, one destroys initiative, the capacity of the State to produce and the chances of the people to improve their lot. 
Australians have become fully aware of these things. They have also become aware that freedom of choice, freedom of association, freedom of speech and many other freedoms which are sometimes glibly spoken of can be found only in a democratic society. I believe that at long last the great mass of Australians are fully aware of this and of the fact that other systems develop into dictatorships of the Right or the Left. 
Because of the clarity with which these attitudes have been revealed by Australians in recent years I feel it is important that we spend a few minutes trying to analyse the meaning of this system, its main facets and the yardsticks by which we measure it. It is an Australian way about which we can build, I am sure, a real measure of pride. Without a real measure of national pride, accompanied by a suitable modesty, this country, like any other, has little place to go. I suggest that the first of the basic facets of a free enterprise democracy may be the diginity and security of the family unit. This matter has been referred to by one or two speakers during the debate. I shall not dwell on it any length. It is within the family unit that a great deal of the character of a nation and the basic strength of a free society are formed. Consequently, it is enormously important that the dignity and security of that unit are assured. Perhaps that should be one of the major objectives of government. I suggest that within that unit there is no more important person than the woman, the mother or whatever she is called. I think it is important that society recognises that of all the provinces in which women are occupied- they vary- she makes no more important contribution to society than she does as the organiser, defender and promoter of the home. 
The second basic facet to a free enterprise democracy revolves around equality of opportunity. We are, and have been greatly proud of the circumstance that Australia unquestionably has an equality of opportunity which is the equal, if not the superior, of that of any other country. Having noted the importance of equality of opportunity, let me hasten to say that it is false to assume that all people will therefore remain equal, that they even want to be equal or that they want to follow the same course. They merely need the freedom of choice to follow the course or the dream they choose. That is what equality of opportunity is all about. It is the provision of the freedom and capacity to follow whatever course one seeks to follow. 
The third facet of a free enterprise democracy- the Australian system- relates to the profit motive. In some areas of the media and in some of the more radical institutions of this country profit is regarded as a dirty word. Yet without profit no country can survive. Without profit there is no investment, development or productivity, and there are no jobs. All that matters is that profit should be kept within a properly conceived and implemented legal system. Whether we like it or not, the profit motive goes closer than anything yet devised to satisfying that somewhat indefinable thing we call human nature. I believe it is basic to the system in which we operate. 
Fourthly, I suggest that we should examine the real meaning of freedom in our society. That is another word which is bandied around. It becomes totally confused and distorted. We do all sorts of things in the name of freedom. Eventually we reach a point where we are confusing freedom with licence. The point I make is that if our sort of democracy is to survive we must recognise that freedom itself is a somewhat meaningless word unless it is freedom within a measure of discipline. It is beholden on us all to see that that measure of discipline is the discipline of the majority. 
Fifthly, I think we should look at theory and relate it to our way of life. There is immense importance in pure theory, whether it is economic or social. It is a challenge to us to ensure that we do not become the slaves of ivory tower conceptions and that we do not live in a laboratory-type atmosphere. The real test of the theories under which our system operates will come when they are applied to the people at large. If they do not take account of human nature and all the varieties of human behaviour, they will not contribute to the furtherance of a free democratic society. I mention those few basic yardsticks of a free enterprise democracy, not because they are the only ones, but because I think it is worth while and proper that we should consider the system which we have developed and which has developed us. If we are to promote and improve that system- of course we can, for the simple reason that it is an evolutionary system and not a revolutionary one- we must understand the vehicle of which we talk. 
I turn to one or two areas of real achievement referred to in the Governor-General's Speech. I believe it is beholden on us to be aware of them. Unless we are aware of achievement, unless we are sure that there is evidence that we are moving in the right direction, we will retard the advent of real confidence. No part of the solution to the economic and social problems confronting this country is greater than that part relating to the development of confidence. Let us see whether in fact we have been achieving something in the last two mighty difficult years. Indeed, we have. I shall refer to one or two general areas and then to a few achievements in the area of primary industry itself. 
I select the area of primary industry because of its basic nature and its peculiar characteristics in this country. It is basic to the country because it provides well in excess of 50 per cent of our total export earnings. So, it is very basic indeed. It is basic also because it provides, directly or indirectly, a living for some three million Australians. It is basic to this country because of all the commercial enterprises in this country, I suppose primary industry is the one with which wc are most richly endowed from a natural resources point of view. At the same time it has more problems than almost any other enterprise in this country. They include problems related to distance, freight costs, high internal costs, our own small internal markets including the fact that we have to find outside Australia 65 per cent to 95 per cent of the markets for most of our primary products and climate in this, the driest continent on earth. The vagaries of the climate and the vagaries of the market place make primary production a relatively difficult occupation. 
The first of the achievements of which I believe all Australians should be proud is the achievement of reducing inflation in this country by more than 5 per cent in the last 12 months to a figure of 9 per cent. This, of course, is not low enough but it is real evidence at long last that we are on the track to bringing inflation to a point where employment once again will start to rise and to a point where confidence will come back into industry across the board because it will then be able to decide its course with relative security in the cost area. Up to this point and for some years now inflation has been at such a level that industry has found it extraordinarily difficult to predict anything cost-wise even in a threemonth to six-month period. In that sort of circumstance there is no hope of confidence, there is no hope of recovery, no hope of employment. So to the whole of Australian industry the control of inflation is a reality and it is an important part of the course back. 
I should mention that we have introduced the most dramatic changes in income tax that have ever been introduced into the Australian economy. We have provided what is only a three-tier system and I am sure that many Australians have not yet grasped the significance of that change. It means that on taxable incomes up to $16,000 a year one rate applies. The rate is 32c in the dollar on incomes beyond $3,750 which averages out at 24c in the dollar on incomes up to $16,000. A rate of 46c in the dollar is applied to incomes between $16,000 and $32,000. The minimum tax rate for income above $32,000 has been reduced from 65 per cent to 60 per cent. The great significance of this is not just the cut in taxes- which is significant- but the fact that it enables Australians to use their initiative, drive and determination to do more than one job if they want to, to work harder or more effectively if they want to and if they can, but not be penalised. They can now earn significantly more income over a wide range without paying a higher rate of tax, and this is the sort of initiative that is really needed in this country. The tax reforms that have been introduced are the beginning of the reestablishment of that sort of initiative. 
Referable to primary industry, I should mention the importance of the alterations to income tax averaging. The upper limit of $16,000 has been abolished and taxpayers are now able to move in or out of the tax averaging system annually. The significance of this is that no one in primary industry will be paying more tax on a specific income than anybody else in the community on the same income. That has not always been the case. An achievement has been the ultimate abolition of the estate duty and gift duty. The abolition of estate duty will have, I am sure, a greater significance over a period of time than is imagined because this form of tax has in the past caused the dismemberment of economic units, has driven people off the land and out of other commercial enterprises and with their departure generations of knowledge has been lost; and that son of thing Australia and Australians cannot afford. The abolition of this duty will play a considerable pan in maintaining a measure of stability and increasing initiative and productivity across a wide range of economic activity. More than that, it will mean that vast amounts of assets that have had to be kept in a liquid or semi-liquid form because of the threat of this type of taxation can now find their way into long-term developmental investment and with that sort of thing not only will the productive capacity of this country improve but also along with it naturally will come job opportunities. As I am a New South Welshman it is to be hoped that the Premier of our State,  Mr Wran,  will recognise now, that he is confronted with estate duty abolition to the north and to the south of his State and also in the Federal scene, that to save jobs and to pass on justice to the people of New South Wales he too must see fit to abolish that duty. 
I do not intend to stride across the range of primary industry but I draw the attention of the Senate to the achievements of the Government in a short two years- two difficult years in various fields. We have been able to increase by 20 per cent plus the base price of wool. We have increased the first payment on wheat by 20 per cent. We have re-introduced the superphosphate bounty and in spite of the abuse the Government received from certain quarters from time to time there is no Australian primary producer who would say that it was a bad thing to reintroduce the bounty or would say that it was irrelevant to increasing the productive capacity of primary producing Australians because, quite clearly, it does all those things. We have reintroduced an investment allowance which again in spite of criticism from some sources has in fact greatly increased activity in the machinery industry and the service industry and has improved the productive capacity of rural Australia very significantly in the last 12 to 24 months. 
After long and difficult negotiations we have introduced the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation which hopefully will play a significant part in the recovery of the beef industry in this country. Hopefully it will be able to implement a form of reserve or base price in that industry, as has already been implemented in the wool and wheat industries. We are about to introduce a fuel equalisation scheme and a rural bank. 1 could go on listing our accomplishments, which are accomplishments of some real measure and of real importance to the economy across the board. 
Let me outline one or two of my hopes for the next two to three years. I believe and hope that we will be able to establish a telephone charge system which will improve the lot of extrametropolitan Australia. This is one of the most significant areas in which cost delays the development of that massive area which ultimately must become the crux of the Australian economy. In the past 10 to 12 years we have seen in my State a significant growth in decentralisation. I believe that that is going to be a continuing and increasing process. The introduction of rural telephone charges which are at least relative to the charges in the capital cities is an essential part of that process. I hope that, difficult though it might be, in the next few years we shall achieve some real success in equalising telephone charges. 
Another matter which interests me and which I hope will be successfully legislated for in the coming months is the introduction of total tax deductibility- as once applied- for projects which are directed towards the conservation of water, soil and fodder. I refer again to what I said of Australia's climatic problems. I refer again also to the fact that primary industry is the greatest natural enterprise that Australians can follow. It probably has the greatest potential of any enterprise in this country. Very relevant to the success of primary industry is the conservation of water, soil and fodder. If we were to encourage such conservation it would encourage Australians to increase their productivity, to increase their capacity to employ people and to increase their capacity to serve a useful purpose in the family of nations. 
Might I say as an individual that I am and always have been a supporter of organised marketing of primary produce. I believe that perhaps in the relatively near future it might be necessary to introduce the 1973 recommendations of the Australian Wool Corporation relating to wool marketing, or that it might be necessary to introduce at least a close compromise. I believe that it has been clearly established, ironic though it might be, that the survival of the individual in primary producing Australia is related to his capacity and determination to get behind largescale marketing authorities in which he has a very significant role to play. I trust that the development which has occurred in these organisations and their determination to do just this will continue, along with the control of the tariff situation. There is no doubt that tariffs add very significantly indeed to the cost structure of primary producing Australia. But it is significant that as we adjust tariffs across the board we should seek desperately to get a freer tariff situation among our potential markets. One of the tragedies of the trading world today is the fact that so many parts of it are locked away behind massive tariff walls which make the tariffs imposed in Australia seem relatively small. 
I wish to refer just briefly to one or two elements which I believe concern us all. They certainly should concern us all. I refer to unemployment, education and, ultimately, to national pride. Unemployment is still with us and certainly the level is unacceptably high. It has been used as an emotional argument in two general election campaigns but the argument has failed. That does not mean that we must cease to grapple with the basic problem of unemployment. We have to become aware of what that basic problem relates to. It relates to a number of things. For instance, it relates to education. There is a need for us to rekindle what one might call the 'work ethic' because around the world, particularly the developing world, the work ethic exists. Around the world today there is a great determination to pursue excellence. Australia will fall behind if Australians do not start to pursue excellence across the whole canvas of activity. 
Unemployment is in no small measure the legacy of its creator. I believe and most Australians now believe that basically the creator of unemployment has been the leaden hand of socialism. The refusal to work and to grab opportunity has led a significant number of Australians into a state of mind in which they assume that the state is there merely to provide. As I said earlier in my remarks, the state can only provide what it takes from the people. The more it takes from the people the less is their incentive to get on with their job of production. There is no doubt that a contributor to unemployment has been the constant effort of trade unions, particularly the radical elements of trade unions, to seek higher and higher wages and better and better conditions regardless of productivity and the capacity of an economy to pay. This has disadvantaged the Australian economy. As Government supporters in this place and certainly in the other place have said from time to time, the constant pressure of wages has been one of the most significant causes of the loss of jobs and job opportunities in this country. Without question, it has placed a significant brake on opportunity. 
It would be remiss of me to suggest that the pursuit of excellence and attacking the problems which confront us are just challenges to be met by labour and the unions. They are equally challenges to management. I hope that in the next year or two or three management and labour will be seen to come together, in a common cause to get on with the job of making this country reach its potential- a potential which is quite enormous for its citizens as individuals and for the country as a contributor to its neighbours and, indeed, to nations around the world. I conclude my remarks by concentrating on the concept of us all because in Australia we are a closely and finely integrated community. There is a tremendous movement in the Australian community, a freedom of movement, a real integration. Equally there is in Australia an interdependence, and at long last a significant number of Australians is recognising that beyond their organisations, their unions and their associations lies an absolute necessity to recognise that without success across the board there will be no success. It is my hope that in the years which lie ahead of us we will see a recognition of this fact, we will see this country once again establish the national pride which was once typical of it and which is basic to its ultimate development and to reaching its ultimate potential. 
I rise to support the Government view in the debate on the matter of public importance this afternoon. Indeed, the subject of the matter of public importance is wide-ranging and somewhat ill-defined, and because of this the debate has wandered fairly far and wide. It will be my object in the few minutes available to me to examine somewhat more closely the subject of the matter of public importance which is stated as follows: 
The damage to community relations and the reputation of our system of justice resulting from the conduct of the authorities in the alleged social security frauds in Sydney. 
That is a fairly wide and ill-defined statement and I will attempt to examine it more closely to see whether what is implied by the Opposition is true or whether damage to community relations and to our system of justice and the conduct of authorities are important, necessary and basic things that are being handled extremely well by the Government and by the appropriate departments in the situation which has prompted the debate. This matter is not a condemnation of ethnic groups, individuals, professions or parts of professions, lt is far from that. It really concerns people cheating the great mass of Australians by finding loopholes by scurrilous and improper methods, and by committing offences. That is what the debate is about, it is not about ethnic groups, or particular professional groups either. It is a matter that concerns the cheating of the Australian people, of the Australian taxpayers, by these unscrupulous and perhaps sometimes unwitting people. 
Of course, anything which damages community relations and our system of justice in this democracy is a matter of public importance. How could it be otherwise? It is a matter of public importance, but what I object to is the promotion of it by the Opposition this afternoon as if the Government had attempted constantly to do the wrong thing in this area. The Opposition has not taken a constructive approach in promoting this matter of public importance. That there is urgency and that it is important is not in question. How do we overcome it? How do we examine it? I propose to examine exactly what the Opposition's statement says. As one examines it one leans to the view that it says things which are basically mischievous and can do no good in the problem that confronts the Australian people in this matter. Unless the statement is carefully analysed it can contribute little more than confusion, distortion and a loss of confidence by the Australian people. Anything that is a negative contribution to an economy in which people who are striving hard and successfully against problems of inflation and unemployment and in the fight to re-establish that which we need perhaps more than anything else- a sense of national pride and a knowledge that initiative will be rewarded and justice will be seen to be done is to be deplored. 
Productivity, initiative, national pride and the development of confidence cannot come about in any way unless there is a proper recognition of the basic matters referred to in the matter of public importance here this afternoon. Fortunately, more and more people in Australia are recognising the need for a responsible, intergrated and determined approach to the problems that confront us. We are an interdependent community. We float or sink as a single entity. 
It is important that we analyse the real significance of the matter under discussion this afternoon. If this debate only contributes to distortion, confusion and lack of confidence, we will achieve nothing but a totally negative result. The problem- of course there is a problem- is the abuse of the system or the robbery of the taxpayer, whatever it is called. But the inference that the problem is Government inspired and that consequently wrath should be poured on the Government is absolutely wrong. How can it be in the interest of any government to create that sort of circumstance? On the contrary, we are looking at the abuse of a system which springs perhaps from the weakness of the system itself and the human trait of some people to make a rip-off wherever possible. fortunately this is not a trait of all humans but there is no doubt that from time to time human beings see fit to make such a rip-off if the system will permit. Consequently, we are looking at the abuse of that system and seeking to find a way in which it can be contained. 
As I said in my opening remarks, we are not concerned with a blanket condemnation of a particular group or profession. What the Government seeks to do urgently is to apprehend properly those guilty of misconduct, whoever they may be. What appears to be happening in this country is that the great mass of Australian workers and taxpayers are, from time to time and in different places, being fraudulently treated by other members of the community. Surely it is the Government's duty to see that those who are guilty of that sort of misconduct are apprehended. The alleged damage to community relations and the reputation of our system of" justice should turn to a measure of relief for Australians when they see what is happening. Significant numbers of people have allegedly been shown to have been fraudulently treating a government department. That means that they have been fraudulently treating their fellow Australians. The Government seeks to overcome this problem but it is a long, slow process. It is all very well to ask why this was not done a week, a month or a year ago. It is a long, slow process to apprehend properly, absolutely and conclusively people who have been carrying on this sort of abusive operation in the community. 
Whatever happens from this point, there should be a measure of relief that the abuse has been revealed, that the problem is recognised by the Government and that it is being successfully attacked. There should be a measure of confidence to Australians rather than a measure of confusion. The contribution of the Opposition in this debate has been mainly concerned with establishing a measure of confusion and distortion. That is no solution to the real problem that confronts us. Whatever damage may have occurred is not the fault of the authorities. The damage which is alleged- I suppose that it will be proven in time- is the result of those who have perpetrated the crime. 
That is where the damage occurs.  Senator Georges  knows that clearly and absolutely. It is silly to blame the authorities as is suggested in the wording of the matter of public importance which we are discussing. The people who are responsible are the people who perpetrated the social security fraud. The responsibility of a government and I would hope, of, an opposition is to see that the people who are responsible for perpetrating a crime, no matter who they are or what they are, are brought to justice. That is the purpose of the Government's action in this matter. The community in Australia will be pleased to know that proper steps are being taken successfully to overcome this abuse. 
Of course, damage to community relations and the system of justice are matters requiring urgent attention. But confusion, distortion and loss of confidence can only be a totally negative contribution to this situation. The inference that a government would promote such abuse of the system, the taxpayer and the mass of Australian workers is mischievous, wrong and unsubstantiated. On the contrary, the system of justice is running to earth the guilty parties, perhaps slowly but surely. As it does this it restores confidence to the system, the people and the authority and direction of government. As I said earlier, there is no question of victimisation. The Government is genuinely attempting to find those who are guilty of defrauding the Department and consequently the great mass of Australian people, to run them to earth and treat them as justice requires. In fact, we are considering a matter of urgency which is being properly handled by a responsible government. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Whilst many people have considerable sympathy for migrants and, particularly, refugees coming to Australia, such as those from Timor and Vietnam, they are becoming increasingly alarmed at the continuous flow of foreign boats landing at Darwin or on the northern coast and escaping the scrutiny of our immigration and quarantine officials until they are close to shore or have actually made a landfall. With this in mind, is it correct that yet another vessel has arrived in the Darwin area? Considering the number of vessels that have already landed since the end of the monsoon season, does the Government expect possibly even larger numbers to arrive in the next few months with the consequent possibility of introducing serious and contagious diseases to both humans and animals? As these people are now deliberately by-passing immigration officials based in South East Asia, will the Government consider setting up a quarantine area, say on an off-shore northern island, to carry out full investigations as to quarantine and their backgrounds in an effort to safeguard Australia for the reasons I have outlined? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. What action has the Government taken in relation to recommendations 17 to 23, and particularly recommendation 2 1 of the report on the Middle East of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence? Recommendation 2 1 states that Australia should increase mandatory stockholdings of crude oil and derived products so that a 90-day reserve is established by 198 1. Would this not be in line with the minimum target suggested to member countries by the International Energy Agency? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: What action has the Government taken on recommendation 25 of the report, tabled in June 1977, of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, on its Middle East reference, which urged the Government to avoid transferring foreign quarrels to Australia by taking more stringent steps to deny entry to people who had participated in, or had called for, acts of terrorism abroad? I ask further, in regard to recommendation 26 of the report, whether Australia has always given the most vigorous support in the appropriate world organisations to resolutions to curb international terrorism. 
I rise to support the Estate Duty Assessment Amendment Bill and the associated Bills - the Gift Duty Assessment Bill and Gift Duty Amendment Bill- which are before the Senate this afternoon. I want to be as brief as possible. As a prelude to the few remarks I want to make I shall refer to just a couple of the things that have been said by  Senator Wheeldon  and echoed in some way or other by  Senator Button.  In the first place I think it should be recognised that the abolition of estate duty and the gift duties surrounding it was one of the major platforms and one of the significant platforms in the last election campaign. Quite clearly, more than just the rich, the privileged or those who had inherited great things must have voted for this concept because a very large majority of Australians returned the Fraser-Anthony Government. Clearly, a very significant majority of Australians across the whole canvas of our community supported this proposal along with the many other propositions which were put and which are being carried out.  Senator Wheeldon  earlier in the piece spoke of estate duty as an inheritance tax. I suppose that from one point of view that is clearly what it is. But he spoke of it as an inheritance tax as if inheritance itself were some sort of foul, evil thing. I think Australians in general have gradually grown to recognise that that is not the case in a free society. Inheritance is part of a free society and a part that needs to be guarded so that that society can develop to its maximum. 
It is interesting to notice that  Senator Button  and  Senator Wheeldon,  although I thought both were totally against the abolition of estate duty, have more or less said: 'We do not oppose the abolition of estate duty as long as we can get rid of it and re-impose or introduce some form of capital gains tax in its place. In other words the Opposition is prepared to do away with one disincentive so long as the Government provides the opportunity to implement in its place another disincentive or anti-progressive element.  Mr Deputy President,  I ask you to remember when inheritance is being referred to as more or less an evil that those who have produced the inheritance, whatever it may be, have paid taxes directly and indirectly on its development throughout their lives. Those who receive the inheritance will continue to pay taxes directly and indirectly on it throughout their lives. So no inheritance is bereft of tax. It has been taxed throughout the entire time of its compilation. 

 Senator Wheeldon went on to say that he thought perhaps there was a good argument for the reduction of sales tax. Of course there is. I do not suppose there is anyone in this Government in either House who would not like to reduce sales tax, but it can and will be reduced only as the circumstances of the economy permit it to be, circumstances which must allow the Government to raise the funds that are necessary to carry out its commitments. It is a desirable circumstance to reduce sales tax but it has to be viewed in the light of the capacity of the Government to meet its many and varied responsibilities. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that in abolishing estate duty and the gift duty that surrounds it the Government is honouring yet another- I mark the words 'yet another'- of its election promotions or undertakings. Indeed, it has carried out a significant number of the undertakings that were given in 1975 and again in 1977.  Senator Button  implied that this was not the case. Without going through a whole list of achievements, honourable senators will recall that the inflation rate was reduced from something like 14 per cent to perhaps 6 or 7 per cent in two years. This is perhaps the most remarkable contribution that the Government has been able to achieve in honouring the undertakings it made when it came to office nearly three years ago. The abolition of estate duties, as we are aware, dates back to 2 1 November of last year. But more than that, there was an undertaking that there will be a total abolition from 1 July 1979. In addition, the Government has already moved in regard to benefits that may pass from grandparents to grandchildren. This is a significant benefit. 
In view of the earlier damaging references about inheritance being some form of evil I ask whether the Senate considers inheritance to be relevant to the concept of the family. The family unit is still the basic unit of this free society and we tend to guard it in that capacity. It is my view that inheritance, the family unit and the abolition of death duties are virtually one and the same concept; that one is significant and definitely referable to the others. I believe it is also worth observing that in the last year or two practically every State government in Australia has taken some sort of step towards the abolition of estate duty. I remind the Senate that the first and most significant- in fact the ultimate- step was taken by the Government of Queensland on 1 January, I think, 1977. 
Yes, it is significant because it has caused  Mr Wran  in New South Wales to talk of abolishing estate duty in that State. He is suggesting that he will do that purely and simply because massive amounts of capital investment and massive numbers of job opportunities are moving out of his State into a State where the opportunity to develop is considerably freer. I think that Australians should be aware of this. The Labor Government in New South Wales and the governments in other States are already foreshadowing the possibility of the abolition of estate duty. In all the other States there has been a definite undertaking that death duty will be abolished in the relatively near future and in some it has been abolished in part already. 
The size of the estate may well have little to do with the capacity of an estate to pay. The capacity to pay surely is largely relevant to the liquidity element in that estate. The tragedy of much of this duty over the years has been the destruction of estates- small, medium and large. I emphasise the area of the small and medium estates. Under the tax situation that exists in New South Wales today an estate of a mere $35,000 attracts a duty liability of something approaching $3,000. Had it not been for the abolition of federal estate duty in that area it would attract something in the vicinity of $4,500. 

 Senator Button referred to the need for tax reform. I put the attitude to the Senate that this abolition of estate duty and gift duty is a significant tax reform because it resolves that there should not be continuing and extra taxation on the dead. People pay tax totally and absolutely through their lives, often at an increasing rate. The concept of continuing that taxation on the product of those lives or livelihoods is a concept that a significant number of Australians have now thrown out the window. They want no more of it. In producing this legislation the Government is producing a measure of tax reform. The Government's history in this area is significant indeed. 
Already in the last Budget it has introduced the three-tier system of income tax which is probably the most dramatic change in principle of income taxation, the greatest incentive to an enormous range of wage and salary earners that has ever been introduced into an Australian Budget. Indeed, the Government has abolished the limit of $16,000 on income averaging. It has enabled people to move in and out of the averaging system. This means that nobody will pay more income tax on a specific income than anybody else. That has not always been the circumstance. In the lifetime of this Government it has introduced tax reform in clear areas- the family allowances system; the full indexation of income taxation, which was righting one of the rip-offs of the Whitlam era; the tax cuts of February 1977; and the total indexation of pensions to the full consumer price index. These reforms- I ask honourable senators to mark the word 'reforms'- in the taxation area have cost the Australian Government and saved the Australian people something like $2 billion in one full year. They are significant indeed. 
The Opposition this afternoon has highlighted the fact that the sort of abolition that we propose and which will be brought about when these Bills are passed is not found all around the world. This form of estate duty is still maintained in many countries in the developed world. The Opposition puts that fact forward as an argument against the abolition. Is Australia to continually tie herself to what is seen to be the circumstance necessary in other countries or can Australia, in the taxation field, prove herself to be an innovator? If Australia is one of the few developed countries that has seen fit to abolish this tax, she moves into the lead in that field of taxation and becomes an innovator. I believe we should be proud of the circumstance rather than continually decry it. 
Estate duty tax was introduced in this country in 1914 as a method of raising revenue in a wartime circumstance. That was one year before income tax itself was introduced. The tax was quickly grabbed by socialist theorists as a measure of equalising the wealth distribution. I suppose in the very early stages the tax may have had some significance partly because wealth was perhaps more dominantly in fewer hands than it is today where it is to be found across the whole canvass of the Australian socio-economic community. Today matters in that relation have changed considerably. This form of taxation has been seen as some sort of instrument to enact a socialist dream of equality and equalisation. But people have recognised that such a dream has no place for human nature. It is not capable of being arrived at. This legislation is a useful and proper way of combating that sort of disaster which, incidentally, lasted for some three years in this country. 
Ultimately I briefly look at what has been done over the years by the implementation of estate duty and the gift duties that accompany it. I suppose one could say without any shadow of doubt that it has brought about an extraordinarily lucrative area of operation for those professions of accountancy and law. Like a lot of socialist institutions, such as the socialisation of medicine, one of the ironies is that the practitioners are among the wealthiest, if not the wealthiest, in our country. This is one of the fascinating ironies of socialism. I think it is worth while that we should be aware of some of the things that this form of taxation has produced. In the form of revenue it has produced less than one per cent at great cost.  Senator Messner  indicated the cost of collection. It has produced, unquestionably, a large measure of human hardship across a wide field of people involved in the medium down to the small area of development. These are the people who very often have been forced to sell assets whether they be landed assets or assets of a rural estate or of an industrial nature. The forced sales were probably made at ridiculously low prices and so contributed nothing to the economy but disaster to those who had built up the assets. It has, in fact, destroyed in many cases economic units. It has caused a circumstance in which the capital and labour being expended are no longer being expended at a point anywhere near the optimum. 
The tax has been a disincentive to development and consequently a destroyer of job opportunities. It has caused great numbers in our community to concentrate as years go by on retaining a significant measure of liquidity in order that the beneficiaries of an estate may be able to receive a significant part of it. By forcing that sort of liquidity on the community, the community has been denied significant development opportunities and job opportunities. More serious than that I believe it has, in a number of industries particularly across the whole canvas of rural Australia, tended to drive generations of expertise and knowledge out of the industry. This is one of the areas which can seldom be replaced and certainly cannot be replaced in the short term. It has created a significant problem to productivity and to the societies and communities of rural Australia. 
A few moments ago I said that the tax was relatively insignificant as a raiser of revenue. Once it is abolished it is my belief that the revenue will suffer very little and certainly only in the short term because the eradication of the problems that are relevant to estate duty will be an incentive to initiative and development and will produce a greater national product and consequently a greater return in the income tax field. So the loss of revenue is probably a red herring which has been dragged across the road in this discussion. 
I do not want to talk at any further length. I merely close my remarks by saying that the abolition of this form of taxation carries out an undertaking of the Government. It will enable a greater measure of initiative and consequently greater productivity and job opportunities to come into this country. Productivity and job opportunities are essential today. Individuals will be able to use what they are able to make as they see fit and will deny perhaps a certain level of taxation in that area to a government on the grounds that an individual and groups of individuals have more right to spend what they can justifiably and legally make than the state. There is no reason to assume that the state is the great provider, the great source of all knowledge, the body that should be entrusted with the expenditure of masses of money made purely by the individual. The state can provide no more than it takes from the individual. The tragedy of this country has largely been the level of taxation. On that ground it is not surprising that the Opposition should be opposing this legislation for it is notoriously a party of high taxation. Any form of taxation being denied to the Treasury is anathema to it. 
It is fascinating when I reflect that  Senator Wheeldon  said it would be a good idea to reduce sales tax which, of course, is an indirect tax. Yet I seem to recall that in the last year of the Labor Government, when  Mr Hayden  was Treasurer, indirect taxation was increased by about $600m. So the Opposition's amendment results from a strange twist of the imagination to suit this afternoon 's debate. I have pleasure in supporting the legislation and opposing the amendment. 
-by leave- I have not had the opportunity to serve with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack for as great a time as previous speakers but it has been ample time for me to recognise his contribution as a great parliamentarian and as  Chairman  of a committee which, from time to time, achieves some important things. Very briefly I offer my congratulations to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack at the time of his concluding a distinguished parliamentary career. I particularly congratulate him on his performance as  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I am sure that he has performed his task equally as well as if not better than any of his predecessors and perhaps better than any of us who will follow him. It is clear to me, as I am sure it is to all members of this Parliament, that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has carried out his task in this area with dignity, with a great deal of capacity, with determination and impartiality, and, above all, with a sense of humour which solves any tight situations that may and, remarkably, do occur from time to time. I congratulate  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack on his contribution to that Committee and to the Parliament. I wish him good health and happiness in his retirement. 
I join the discussion in the Senate this afternoon from the Government benches concerning an allegation by the Opposition framed in the terms of a matter of public importance, which reads: 
The continuing harmful  effects  on the economy of stated Government intentions to further reduce government spending in the forthcoming Budget. 
If this discussion could contribute anything to the Australian economy and to the Australian community this afternoon, it would be only that people would analyse the circumstances that they find around them. If they do that, they will find that the matter under discussion is one which has in it no substance whatsoever. If they can divorce themselves from the passing piece of rhetoric and emotionalism, they will find that not only does this matter of public importance have no substance to it, but that in fact the Government which they have elected twice in the last  2lA  years with resounding majorities is in fact taking this country along a sound and tough course. It is a tough and unpleasant experience. Very often that is the circumstance that is the prelude to taking people out of a disastrous situation into the normal Australian circumstance of stability and productivity. 
It seems to me that the discussion we have had this afternoon from the Opposition benches has been totally in line with their normal attitude since they have been an Opposition in this Parliament. It is in line with their normal attitude because their proposition and the way they have put it seems to be directed to one course only, and that course is the confusion and distortion of the circumstances of the economy in which we live. There will be a recovery, but if there is one way of ensuring that it will be slow and tedious, it is by the adoption of that sort of attitude of confusion, of distortion, and of a determination to be totally destructive rather than to enter into a circumstance where they, like us, are members of a total Australian community. Unless we operate as an entity, we will not survive and develop the extraordinary potential that we do have. 
The problems that confront us have been clearly enunciated and I will not restate them this afternoon. But clearly, they are the legacy of three years of socialism and quite clearly, that circumstance has been overwhelmingly rejected by the Australian people twice in  216  years. It is a sad legacy because it is the legacy of a government which, when it came to power, seemed to be hell-bent on implementing a socialist philosophy, a socialist ideology. Had it not been hellbent on doing this at an enormous pace and regardless of the socio-economic consequences, then indeed we may not have sunk to the depths we did as a people, and we may not now be confronted with the sorts of problems that confront us today as we climb out of that ditch. 
What this country needs probably above all things is the reintroduction of a measure of confidence. That is the sort of thing against which discussions which are confusing will measure strongly. We are confronted continually by the Opposition in this Parliament with a prediction of doom. That is an excellent way in which to try to bring about a measure of doom. I suggest that members of the Opposition would be well advised from their own point of view, to say nothing of the point of view of the Australian economy and social circumstance, to get away from predicting doom, to get away from this attitude of disaster, this emotionalism, and concentrate on a constructive circumstance which can and must bring this country up from the depths to which it was driven. I believe it is imperative that we recognise the need to bring to the forefront once again that which we describe as an Australian pride and that which is just as inherent in the economic and social survival of this country as any other single factor. 
There is a psychological role in all economic affairs. The psychological problem that confronts us today is that Australians have to lift themselves out of this circumstance of assuming that they are on Disaster Street. They are not. An understanding of the nature of the problem would indicate that the Government, with the help of the people- all the people- is slowly and surely bringing the country towards the fantastic potential that it has. Australians used to be- and I believe that at heart they still are- proud of the potential of this country. It is a potential which is exciting for all Australians as individuals and, indeed, for the country as a whole, because it will allow the country to contribute in the international field virtually as it should contribute. 
The terms of the matter of public importance which confronts us and about which we are speaking this afternoon are, 1 believe- 1 hope 1 can show this in a few moments- totally in line with the destructive attitude, the distortion and the confusion which typify the Opposition which has raised the matter. The matter of public importance refers to the rate at which we are reducing public sector expenditure. It is merely the rate of reduction which is being attacked and not the total amount of public expenditure. That is the first area of confusion. We are attacking the public sector in some measure because we are convinced that it is necessary to transfer resources and effort into the private sector from which those things have been chased. It is necessary to do that because the private sector employs more than 70 per cent of the Australian work force. It is the private sector which produces virtually the entire export income of this country. 
I wish to look just for a moment at some of the initiatives which this Government has introduced in order to sustain the argument that in fact we are headed on the correct course and not on the course which the Opposition suggests. It was mentioned briefly that the chief objective of the Government when it came to power was to reduce the rate of inflation. The relationship between inflation and unemployment has been indicated many times. The fact is that the rate of inflation has been reduced; it has been more than halved in  2Vi  years. That is a remarkable performance, and it is one of the elements which should be starting to give to the Australian people a measure of confidence and a measure of recognition that they can return to the sort of successful prosecution to which they have been used. 
What else have we done in the course of  2lA  years? I do not intend to canvass all of the matters because time would not permit. However, I shall refer to a number of achievements. I refer, firstly, to the introduction of the three tier system of personal income taxation. Unquestionably that is the greatest measure of taxation reform that this country has seen. That reform has contributed tremendously to productivity and it will contribute in greater measure to a return to initiative in the future. We brought about- the Whitlam Government failed to do this- the full indexation of personal income tax. That in itself got rid of one of the worst rake-offs of the socialist era. We reintroduced the investment allowance. That has had a significant effect on activity in the manufacturing, the maintenance, the advertising and the sales fields. The investment allowance applies not only to primary industry but also across the board to secondary industry. 
The reintroduction of the superphosphate subsidy, the introduction of family allowances, the encouragement given to oil and mineral research and development are all matters which are contributing to the revival of the economy and the community. The abolition of estate and gift duties is providing a circumstance in which more investment capital will become available, thus providing job opportunities across a wide field. Indeed, it is worthy of note that amongst those things we have not done is to increase indirect taxation. That is an area in which the socialists seem to be particularly effective. 
There is no doubt that unemployment remains with us and that it is a major obstacle to overcome. Equally, there is no doubt that it can be overcome only by the establishment in the economy of a real measure of confidence and of an expansionary circumstance in which it pays to employ more and more people when there is profit in the enterprise. That is the whole object and direction of government activity. Probably more than anything else- indeed,  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Hayden  have agreed with this on a number of occasions- the extraordinary wage spiral was the basic factor which produced the unemployment which surrounds us in Australia today. The corollary of that wage spiral has been the introduction at a very much greater rate of sophisticated machinery- computerisation- in commerce and industry. That was going to happen in any case, but the sad thing is that it happened at an extraordinarily increased rate. 
I turn for a moment to some of the comments attributable to  Mr Wran.  It pleased me, and I think it pleased a great number of people, to see that the objectives and the performance of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  have been hailed by  Mr Wran  in New South Wales. He too would be glad about the advent of this circumstances because some of his efforts in recent times have not been so successful. He recently returned from America delighting at the market for coal he saw in that country. Yet, on his return, he found that he could not even handle the coal which would be available for export from his own State over the next 12 months, largely because the facilities which he and his Government could have built were not commenced; in fact, the plans were abandoned.  His  contribution to increasing confidence in the primary or rural industries in New South Wales in the future has been to increase the freight levy by some 1 5 per cent in 2 Vi years. 
There are signs that the economy is getting out of the trough. Therefore the terms of the matter of public importance are totally untrue. The fact that the situation in the stock exchanges is better, that the balance of payments, capital inflow and inflation situations are improving, that there is strength in the wool marketing situation as well as in the wheat situation, and that there is improvement in 101 other areas indicates that confidence is returning to the community and that the suggestions made in the terms of this matter of public importance that we are discussing this afternoon are totally untrue. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I support these six wool industry Bills. They are basically machinery Bills but give us a necessary opportunity to make a few reflections on this most important industry. I am sure we were all somewhat interested, in a manner of speaking, in what the previous  speaker, Senator Walsh,  had to say. I was somewhat surprised that his speech was not totally typical of him. It had the usual measure of spleen but it seemed to lack the emotional scream to which we have became accustomed. However, I wish to correct the inference in his comments that for 20 years or more the Liberal and National Country Parties had messed around with the wool industry and that it was not until the 1 973-74 period that a solution to the marketing problem was found by the Australian Labor Party. I want to put that claim a little straighter and a little clearer. 
The 1973-74 period marked the culmination of many years of strife and intelligent argument among the members of a great and independent industry. They took literally decades to come to a conclusion on marketing. In 1965, which is relatively recent in the terms of those discussions, the industry threw out a recommendation for a reserve price for wool. Mark my words, it was only in 1970, when disaster had finally overtaken the Australian wool industry, that the then LiberalCountry Party Government established the Australian Wool Commission, the forerunner of the Australian Wool Corporation. The Commission virtually put a base in the industry and established a guaranteed average price of 36c per lb. 
This proved to be basic to the ultimate decision of the Australian Wool Industry Conference to recommend the establishment of what became known as the Australian Wool Corporation. I think it is important that honourable senators and the community should be aware of what happened. I make a final reference to  Senator Walsh. His  usual condemnatory remarks about the National Country Party, which I represent in this coalition Government, are nothing more today than they have been for many years, that is, a compliment to us. It seems strange that  Senator Walsh  and his party should adopt the attitude they have adopted as the 'saviours' of rural industry, when the electorate sees fit to elect Labor candidates in only two or three of the 45 rural seats. 
Let me refer briefly to the Bills which I am glad to see are not opposed. I presumed they would not be. They seek to reintroduce for another 12 months, as happens every 12 months, the 5 per cent levy to finance the fund established to meet expenses incurred as a result of losses in the operation of the reserve price system, and the 3 per cent levy for research and promotion, a percentage which is matched by the Government. It is worthy of note that this country no longer can be said to ride on the sheep's back. It was true that for perhaps 1 50 years the country basically rode on the sheep's back. That has changed but not dramatically because this country still achieves in excess of $ 1 billion annually in export earnings from its wool industry. It is pertinent to point out that the sheep does not ride on the back of the taxpayer. Many Australians forget that significant fact. These Bills are evidence that this great and significant industry is in no way a load on the Australian taxpayer. It pays its way from these 5 per cent and 3 per cent levies and any money it needs for the operation of the reserve price system is borrowed and paid for at commercial rates of interest. It is important that Australians across this great country should recognise that this industry is significant to the extent of having been almost synonymous with Australia throughout our entire history. It is an industry which is not reliant on the taxpayer for its support, maintenance and development. 
The Australian Wool Corporation has succeeded in establishing a reserve price system, a base in the market place, which has been of enormous value to the grower because it has enabled him to budget with some measure of certainty. It has assisted the development of this massive industry. It has been of equal advantage to the user of wool, to those people who produce tops, yarn and cloth, to the retailer, and finally to the consumer. For the first time the reserve price system has succeeded in ironing out significantly the peaks and troughs which were an enormous problem not only to the producer but also to those people who use wool. Wool is a remarkable fibre. It possesses various characteristics which give it advantages and make it extremely difficult for products from the chemical and synthetic field to compete with it. It has a tensile nature and is non-flammable. It has an absorb.tive quality which to this time has not been achieved by any synthetic material. It has an amazing capacity for insulation and is used even in the building trade as well as in the furnishing trade. 
All Australians should be aware of the significance of research and promotion and the work of the International Wool Secretariat in this field. The research efforts of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and other bodies have enabled wool to retain a fast colour, to be washed in washing machines, to be crease-proof and to be, in every sense, a premier competitor in the textile field. This is basically the result of the 3 per cent levy plus the Government contribution being applied to research and promotion. It is high time that Australian producers and users recognised the value of the IWS contribution to research and promotion and ceased doing what  Senator Walsh  did in his characteristic way, that is casting aspersions on research and promotion as though they were unnecessary. 
I know that time presses so I draw my remarks to a close by saying that I support wholeheartedly the Bills that are before us. They are referable to the survival, maintenance and development of certainly the senior industry in Australia and one of the most significant industries in Australia. The amendment is hardly worth reference because the sort of negotiations that one would expect between a responsible government and responsible representatives of the industry are constantly under way. There is virtually no doubt that as soon as the Government and the industry- in particular the industryare convinced that a certain method is found of converting into a revolving fund the money that is constantly coming year after year into.the market support fund, it will be implemented. I commend the Bills to the Senate. 

 -Mr President and honourable senators, I would sincerely thank the Senate for having elected me to this high and responsible office of  Deputy President  and  Chairman  of Committees. In thanking the Senate and in starting my term in this office, I am aware of the performance, capacity and integrity of those who have served before me in this office. I hope that I can continue that sort of performance for the benefit of this chamber and that this chamber, with co-operation, will express itself to the Australian people for what it is- an important chamber in this Australian Parliament. I thank the Senate. 
I rise to speak briefly about the Budget, but before doing so I would at this late hour like to congratulate all those honourable senators who have made their maiden speech in this chamber in the course of these Budget discussions. To honourable senators on both sides of the chamber I say that we have enjoyed hearing their speeches and we look forward to their contributions to debates as time goes by. 
Tonight we heard the maiden speech of  Senator Puplick,  who is from my State of New South Wales. I take this opportunity to congratulate  Senator Puplick  on the statements that he made. They are clearly in my mind. I believe that his contribution tonight was a quite learned treatise in many fields. I just hope that as time goes by he can relate those gems of thought and expression of philosophers and poets of the past 2,000 years or so to human nature and the problems that confront us in a socio-economic situation today. Indeed, I am always concerned when I listen to the wisdon of such people as were quoted by  Senator Puplick  tonight lest we as a people become the subjects or the slaves of somewhat ivory towered conceptions. Whilst tremendous importance is placed publicly upon pure theory, in whatever field it may be, we as democrats and free people- regrettably there are relatively few free people thoughout the world today- have to beware lest we become the slaves of some ivory towered conceptions. It is a relatively simple matter to solve problems in the circumstances of an ivory tower where one is able to cut off those influences which one does not want to consider and consequently to come to conclusions which may appear to be almost infallible, but conclusions which have not taken into account the strength and force of human nature, conclusions and theories which when they are thrown out into the world in which they must prove themselves or not often prove to be relatively ineffective. 
I support these Budget Papers for a number of reasons but basically, and significantly I believe, because they are another expression of an economic and social line that has been promoted to the Australian people twice in less than three years, an economic and social line that was overwhelmingly endorsed by the Australian electorate in December of 1 975 and again as recently as December 1977. Not only have these propositions been endorsed by the Australian people twice in this time but in fact they are continually being endorsed by people within and without this country. Contrary to some suggestions that one hears from time to time in some sections of the media- and indeed from our political opponents, which is an area from which I would assume we would hear these sorts of suggestions- there is a general measure of acclaim for the Budget that has been brought down this year. I support the Budget basically on other grounds too. Not only is it a realistic assessment of the direction that this country, society and economy are travelling but it is also prepared to take, and in fact does take, a relatively hard line in certain areas. It is significant that in Australia today we have a government that is prepared to act in a manner which in the short term may cause a measure of discomfort but in the long term will prove to be able to continue the march of Australia out of the problems that were associated with a socialist experiment, with a morass into which we seemed to sink but a few years ago. It is a morass out of which it will take the efforts not only of government but also of every section of the community to lift this great society to get back on the road to this ultimate and exciting potential. It is on that ground also that I believe the Budget Papers are worthy of considerable credit. 
In some areas they involve actions which perhaps are not the sorts of actions that the Liberal and National Country parties from choice would want to take. I make the point that both parties in this coalition are basically parties of low taxation, relatively small government and parties that believe that the state is here to be the servant of the people and not the master of the people. Consequently, the hard line decisions in the Budget are put there for excellent reason but obviously with a measure of regret because in the short term they are causing a number of problems that are totally alien to the philosophy that we promote, and indeed in the longer term unquestionably will implement. Because the Government has taken hard decisions I believe that the intelligent community of Australia will recognise what has been done, recognise the responsibility that the Government is assuming, as indeed it should, and will generate from that recognition a measure of determination and pride which perhaps more than anythiny else ultimately can lift this country out of the problems into which it has sunk, and can start us back to achieve the sort of potential that we have for our citizens as individuals and indeed for our country as a nation, as a total entity, as a nation amongst nations. 
Over the period of some few days that this Budget discussion has been proceeding the statistical detail of the Budget has been spoken of and detailed over and over again. I shall return to discuss in brief some of the performances of this Government, often maligned, over the past three years. I shall do that not for the sake of saying 'I told you so' or 'Look at this'. I shall do it because it is important that Australians wherever they may be should recognise that in fact great things are being achieved, in some areas very slowly, in some areas far more quickly, almost dramatically. It is important that Australians are aware of the performance of their Government, a government in which they showed enormous confidence at the polling booths on two recent occasions. 
For the moment I turn to a more general discussion. One of the advantages of a Budget debate is that it gives us in this chamber an opportunity to examine a wide range of measures and concerns that together go to make up the total experience of a nation. It is in this sort of debate that we can divorce ourselves in some degree from the fine line of specific legislation and have a look at some of the basic principles which we seek to promote, some of the basic measures which we believe are relevant to the continuance and development of our type of society. It is indeed my conviction that most Australians believe in the system of free enterprise democracy which is based on the family unit, which admits the profit motive within the law as being satisfactory to the desires and the dictates of human nature, which admits equality of opportunity, which admits that freedom is a relatively meaningless concept unless it is experienced within a properly conceived and majority held and enforced discipline. That is the free enterprise democracy which I believe is one of the things basic to out society. We should be aware and proud of the socio-economic structure which we have developed through almost 200 years of history, a socio-economic structure which has been the product of a consistent conflict with a relatively inhospitable geographic circumstance and a changeable climate. 
Debate interrupted. 
When I was interrupted as I was speaking to the Budget Papers last week I was drawing attention to the nature of the free enterprise democratic system which I consider to be basic to the majority belief of Australians and I intended to draw attention to the importance of this belief to the Budget circumstances in which we find ourselves. Our way of life- I believe it is not going too far to call it 'the Australian way'- has resulted in the development of a socio-economic structure in this country of which the majority of Australians are proud. The development of this socio-economic structure has occurred in an almost frontier-like contest for some 200 years or so with a fairly harsh physiography and with a climate that is equally harsh and unpredictable. We have as Australians developed the view that we see the role of the state as being a social service based institution which is and must remain the servant and not the master of the people. 
Further than that, I believe that in the Australian circumstance we have developed in this country something of which we are proud and which is probably rated ahead of the situation in almost any other country. I believe that the Australian society is the most flexible society in the world. The Australian circumstance is one in which people move from one strata to another, horizontally or vertically, with comparative ease. I believe that that sort of flexibility is a real measure of the strength of this society. It is a circumstance and an attitude which we must seek to maintain, to mould and to develop. It is particularly important that we recognise the character of the society and the situation in which we live because it appears to me, and I am sure to many others in this country, that the theories of socialism and communism in the world today are slowly, and in some places not so slowly, on the retreat. They are seen to be failing to satisfy the dictates of human nature. Consequently our own system, adjusted and moulded from time to time as circumstance demands, is a system which we must understand and promote. One of the ways of promoting it surely is by the passage of legislation in the form of a Budget which is responsible and directed towards the maintenance of the community in which we live and which we have developed. 
I am aware- and I think all Australians should be aware- of the words of Lord Hailsham when he was in Australia not that many months ago. Among other things, he said that it was the complacency of its supporters rather than the rage of its enemies that was the greatest threat to democracy. I believe Australians would be well served to take heed of those words. I believe it is sad that because of the activities of extremists and because of the irresponsibility in some circumstances of at least sections of the media a situation has developed in which the philosophies of the major political entities in Australia have drifted too far apart for the sake of a solid democratic society. I think we would all benefit if we were made aware constantly of the fact that for various reasons we have allowed far too great a gap to develop between the varying political, economic and social groups within the Australian continent. 
Having said that, I go on to say that I believe we should be more careful as a people about our use of words. We live in a society in which words seem to be extraordinarily cheap and totally and absolutely innumerable. I think we should be careful about our use of words because very often they create false impressions. This is particularly so, I suppose, as descriptions become rife of Budgets, of specific pieces of legislation, of education itself, of the problem of unemployment and other matters of this type. The careless use of words very often promotes the wrong attitude and has a negative result for the Australian people as a whole. 
I can cite a number of examples of words which are in common usage and which I believe are from time to time abused. Even in the context of this debate I recall having heard intermittently over the last two or three weeks the words ' profit ' and 'conservatism' being used in a derogatory manner, which seems to me to be the normal circumstance in Australia. For instance, I think it is worth while examining the meaning of the word profit'. This word is very often promoted in the media and in some other fields as something of a dirty word, as though it is in some way a villain. Yet profit, provided it is arrived at within a proper legal constraint that has the recognition and backing of the majority of the people, is an absolutely essential ingredient not only to the Australian circumstance-- 
I mentioned legal restraint,  Senator Walsh.  I thought that the honourable senator would have gathered my meaning from the use of those words. Profit is just as essential to a totalitarian state as it is to a democracy. Therefore I believe it is unfortunate that it should always be promoted as something to be avoided. 
Conservatism' is another word that seems to be promoted as something which means the maintenance totally and absolutely of what happened in the past. In my view 'conservatism', properly defined, is the determination of people to examine what happened in the past and what is happening at present and to take from that history of experience those things that are likely to be valuable in moulding the future. If that is what conservatism means, it has a contribution to make to the total development of our society. As I said earlier, we live in a world of words. They are spoken, written and recorded. I suppose that they provide a medium of exchange and communication which has brought the world much closer together both from the point of view of different nations and the people and groups of people within our country. In the area with which I am perhaps more familiar than other honourable senators- that is, the nonmetropolitan area of Australia- we have seen an extraordinary measure of integration and recognition of interdependence in recent times basically through the improvement in communications. This has occurred mostly by the use of words which are so easily transmitted by the various communication systems. Basically, this sort of communication- this world of wordsshould enable us to look at problems and the solutions available and to come to compromise which enables us to consolidate the position and move into the future with a measure of confidence. 
Unfortunately, I believe that in many circumstances this avalanche of words to which the Australian community is subjected does little more than create confusion and distortion, halftruths, false impressions and emphases. These are the things that come from the myriad of words to which members of the community are exposed. This is one of the problems of a free society, one of the penalties and on occasions one of our great strengths. Naturally, I am not in any sense anti-bias. Nobody could assume that any member of society with the capacity to accumulate facts and to analyse them would not develop a measure of bias. But surely the important thing is that in arriving at that measure of bias or that attitude we are not subjected to the sometimes irresponsible zeal of journalists, politicians and other groups of people both inside and outside this country. I believe that words, as we use them in communication, should permit the amassing of a vast array of facts and should encourage a proper measure of analysis. If this is done, the strength of a democracy is ensured and confidence and pride will return to the Australian people. It is interesting and factual to note that only with the return of confidence and pride will we solve the basic problems that confront this community. 
In the course of this debate we have already heard mention of matters referable to the unemployment situation. For instance, we have heard about the load that penalty rates place on the community and on the employment situation. I believe that that is an area with which we should all be concerned. This Budget will be better for Australians if the words that are devoted to it contain a measure of constructiveness and not destructive criticism. Of course, the Budget has to be criticised and analysed but this has to be done responsibly and constructively. I am afraid that on the evidence of the past few weeks we have seen an examination of the Budget, which I believe to be a responsible document, that has proved to be virtually irresponsible. 
Basically, the Budget continues the policies and practice that were talked about in the 1975 and 1977 elections. It continues policies that for two and a half difficult years have been producing results of which Australians can be proud. Very briefly I want to run through just some of the circumstances that have occurred as a result of the practice and policy of the Government in the last two and a half years. For instance, I am reminded that the inflation rate has been halved in that period. Indeed, it is confidently expected in Australia and throughout the world that the inflation rate will be reduced to 5 per cent by the middle of next year. This will put Australia amongst the three countries with the lowest inflation rates in the world. That is a very significant contribution for every Australian. In fact, the Government has brought about the most dramatic tax reforms and tax cuts that have been implemented in many scores of years. Indeed, as was indicated earlier today, the relief granted to taxpayers in Australia as a result of full indexation of personal income tax already totals about $3 billion. In view of that fact, and in spite of a one and a half per cent increase in tax for 1 2 months only, the average couple in Australia in receipt of average earnings will be still $13 a week better off than they would have been in the circumstances that existed in 1975. 
The Government has abolished estate and gift duty. This has released and will continue to release a significant amount of short-term liquid capital into the long-term developmental capital area. In the longer term this will increase job opportunities. The Government has introduced income equalisation deposits. Also, we have reintroduced the superphosphate bounty and the investment allowance. We have seen in the federalist system the circumstance in which States are basically solvent institutions. Local government is in a stronger and more predictable position than it has ever been. Most people involved in local government are prepared to admit that this is the situation. Fuel equalisation has been reintroduced. The beef industry has received $100,000 and beef classification is under intensive study. A higher base price has been set for wool and a first payment scheme for wheat has been implemented. We are three years ahead of the scheduled program of the Schools Commission in primary and secondary education. So it is pretty ridiculous to assume that nothing has been done. 
I make these points because it is important that Australians recognise that the Government 's actions in the last two years, both in policy and in practice, have produced real and positive results for the Australian people. It has been recognised that what has occurred and what is occurring under this Budget, which continues the policy of controlling the deficit, is that the Australia of today is advancing with a measure of real confidence. It is accepted that these policies and practices have been approved by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, by industry and commerce inside and outside Australia, by member countries of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and by a whole host of organisations both inside and outside this country. The Government has had the strength and courage to take hard decisions in this Budget, lt is the correct Budget and it is up to the people to accept it and make it work. 
-Is it the wish of the Committee that the remaining four Bills be taken together as a whole? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and refers to the Minister's recent response to a question concerning water purification and the invention by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Sirotherm, which involved a reference to another process developed by the CSIRO known as Sirofloc. As we have heard little or nothing about Sirofloc, will the Minister explain its origin? What are the claims made for the new process? Finally, does the Minister know of any plans for the industrial use of Sirofloc? 
I  present the following petition from 8 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I agree that the subject we are debating is a matter of public importance. It is a matter of great importance as it concerns long term rural finance. Industry organisations generally and political parties across the board should be aware of the importance of long term finance to primary industry. The Government recognised this importance and prior to the 1975 and 1977 elections it gave various undertakings in respect of the construction and implementation of a Primary Industry Bank. For a significant period those undertakings have been an important and basic part of the policies of the Liberal and National Country parties. 
I agree that the provision of long term finance at the best interest rates possible is certainly a major concern of primary industry, but I do not agree with the wording of the matter of public importance raised by the Opposition, which reads: 
The Prime Minister's failure to honour his 1977 election promise to provide, through the Primary Industry Bank, long term credit at concessional rates of interest. 
That statement has already been quite successfully demolished by  Senator Carrick.  It is not terribly difficult to treat the statement in this manner because it does not appear to me to be in any sense true. Let us look for a moment at the wording of that statement. It refers to long term credit. The Primary Industry Bank has established just that. It is offering the longest term credit available in the whole banking system of this country. The statement then refers to the long term credit being offered at concessional rates of interest. There has been an enormous squeal from certain sections that that has not occurred, but in the sense of the term involved the rate of 10 per cent is indeed a concessional rate. It is probable that money borrowed in any other area for a term of 30 years would attract an interest rate of about 13 per cent. It is perfectly obvious that if money were available elsewhere over this sort of term at an interest rate of less than 10 per cent this banking organisation would have nowhere to go and nothing to do. There is no suggestion that people will not attempt to borrow from the Primary Industry Bank. There is no doubt that everyone would like a lower rate of interest to apply, but what is the rate of interest? The rate of interest is the price of money. If in this instance we were to lower the interest rate continually we could do so only by asking the taxpayer to make up the difference. In effect we would be asking him to subsidise the rate of interest. That would not be terribly popular with the community as a whole. 
There is constant reference these days in some areas of the Press and, significantly, by some members of the Opposition to the effect that the Government is continually breaking promises and failing to live up to undertakings. Are the 
Australian people to assume that every undertaking that is made at a specific time in the history of this country will remain a solid, factual and absolute undertaking regardless of time, circumstance and change? I do not believe that the average Australian would be so stupid. 1 believe that the average Australian is prepared to look at the circumstances. As I said, the Primary Industry Bank has created the availability of long term credit at concessional rates of interest so this matter of public importance is virtually meaningless and certainly incapable of being proved. 
It is more important, I think, to reflect on the fact that in bringing this matter to our attention this afternoon, the Opposition has contributed virtually nothing to the progress and development of Australian primary industry. The Opposition's only contribution, by way of reckless use of adjectives, has been to confuse and distort issues that are of enormous importance. So if the proposition put forward by the Opposition brings only a measure of confusion and distortion, then in the long term this can only jeopardise the success of the very industries at which we are looking. 
I remind the Senate very briefly that various undertakings of the Government parties referable to a primary industry bank have been fulfilled. Because it is important, I refer once again to the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 21 November 1977. He said: 
The new Australian Rural Bank for which legislation was passed in the last Parliament will be established without delay; 
The principal function will be to re-finance loans made by banks (including the Commonwealth Development Bank), other financial institutions and other lenders to rural producers and fishermen; 
It will provide, in conjunction with the banks and other lenders, long term credit to viable borrowers for up to 30 years at concessional rates of interest. The board of the Bank will include two rural representatives. 
Those undertakings have been carried out virtually to the letter of the law and so negate the whole of this proposition that the Opposition has put to us this afternoon. 
As has been mentioned on a number of occasions in a number of places, it is immensely important that primary industry has available to it long term money at the lowest possible interest rate. But above all, it is important that the money be made available long term because primary industry itself has a slow developmental process. It needs to be able to look forward not for five, six, seven or 10 years but more for 15, 20 or 30 years. It has a slow developmental process. Of course primary industry not only is subject to the short term vagaries of climate but also- and this is particularly so in Australia- depends from year to year and from decade to decade on fluctuations in overseas markets, fluctuations which sometimes virtually bring about price crises in the industry. 
Let me look very briefly at the Primary Industry Bank, on which basically this discussion revolves. The Primary Industry Bank was established to provide long term loans. Those loans, in the range of 10 to 30 years, clearly are just that and, from the point of view of the length of their term, they meet the requirements of the industry they are basically meant to serve. In spite of what has been said this afternoon by some members of the Opposition, there is very considerable support amongst producer organisations for the proposition implemented by this Government. Indeed, it is my view that the great mass of primary producers, as individuals, have come to realise that this is an important step in the right direction for long-term finance. No one would suggest that the establishment of the Primary Industry Bank was a perfect solution to the industry's problems. I do not think we can find a perfect solution. We cannot find an easy, cheap way of pricing money. To do that we would have to take toll of the taxpayer very significantly, and that ultimately would not be to the advantage of the primary producer or anyone else in the community. 
It is sometimes said that it is a bad thing that the Bank is not a bank totally of itself; that it is not in a sense an entity of itself, totally divorced from the existing banking system. There are a number of ways of looking at that proposition. Of course the Government discussed it at great length with industry, with its own members and with those in the policy forming areas. The fact that this Bank will operate through the existing trading bank system is in many senses an advantage. It gives the borrower an advantage because it enables him to be in closer contact with people he knows and with people who basically know his circumstances. It avoids that remoteness that is so often the weakness found in many organisations. So from that point of view it is an advantage that the Bank will operate within the existing system. In so doing it avoids the establishment of yet another massive bureaucracy, with an entity of its own, working by itself and operating outside the competitive area of the trading bank system. Such a bureacracy would involve a vast establishment of employees and bureaucrats. 
Mention has already been made of the fact that the board of the Bank will include two primary producer representatives, whose capacity to advise the board of the real needs of the industries they represent is deemed to be extremely important by the people they represent. After all, we are not always concerned purely with the statistical element; we are concerned with quality and the capacity to do a job. The two primary producer representatives have a very responsible job to do and in the view of their organisations, their supporters, their industry operators, they are people with the capacity to represent them properly on that board. There is a 50-50 representation of the trading banks on the board. 
The advent, through Government action, of $30m worth of income equalisation deposits has enabled the interest rate to be kept at a minimum. I think it is important that we should recognise this fact. I recall reading the report of an Estimates committee debate in which  Senator Walsh  suggested that significant profits would be made. Of course the margin is 1.5 per cent, and even if a measurable and significant profit is made, is this to be condemned? Do we want a financial organisation backing Australian rural industry- a massive industry- to operate on a shoe string; to be semi-broke or in danger of becoming insolvent? Of course we do not. It is important that its financial strength be commensurate with the responsibility that it has to take. 
I conclude by saying that I recall among the adjectival phrases used by  Senator Walsh  the suggestion that the Primary Industry Bank is ' an expensive political gimmick'. That may be the view of  Senator Walsh;  it is not the view of the great mass of primary producers in this country. It is not the view of the Government. We believe the establishment of the Bank to be a responsible step in the right direction. 
-That concludes consideration of the departments examined by Estimates Committee A. We now move on to consider the group of departments examined by Estimates Committee B. Is it the wish of the Committee to take the votes in group B together? 
-Is it the wish of the Committee that we return to consider the matters raised by  Senator Martin?  There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
Department of Primary Industry 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 09,256,000. 
-I think the honourable senator is on the wrong Bill. Is division 827 Appropriation Bill (No. 2)? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations noted a report in yesterday's Press of a call by the Secretary of the Western Australian Electrical Trades Union,  Mr Gilbert,  for 'a radical restructuring of the working week'?  Mr Gilbert  emphasised the need to discuss the elimination of weekend penalty rates, a general re-thinking of the five-day week concept and an examination of voluntary or early retirement schemes. The restructuring also may include, he suggests, the removal of the one-day sickie by giving people time off to go to the bank or the doctor or to buy a car. As this appears to me to be a basic contribution to increasing employment and productivity across the board, in particular in tourist, service, educational and research areas, and is, I believe, in line with Government thinking, I ask: Will the Minister undertake that the Government will follow up this encouraging trade union attitude? Further, even though many penalty rates were consent awards, would the Minister not agree that the demands of the current technological revolution make their contribution to productivity and employment a negative one? 
-Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Consideration resumed. 
Is the Minister for Science aware of a report in today's  Canberra Times  which refers to a newly-released book,  Man and the Murray,  by  Dr P.  S. Davis of the Adelaide Medical School? This book likens to a biological time bomb the possible proliferation of aquatic weeds and, in particular, Venezuelan water hyacinth. These weeds can cause a change in the character of a waterway, the collapse of bridges, blockages in irrigation channels and pumps and make navigation difficult. The book states that the infestation threat comes from the Gwydir River on the Gingham watercourse in the flat plains country west of Moree and that it is poised to break into the waters of the Murray and Darling Rivers. Will the Minister make an assessment of this report and advise the Senate what steps the Government, through the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, is taking to control the threat? 
I support the two Bills dealing with amendments to the Trade Practices Act which have been introduced by the Government. I listened with interest to the wide-ranging discussion this afternoon. It ranged from a sensible discussion of principle to a discussion and exposition of the finer points of the law. When we are debating these aspects we are always concerned with an area that is up to challenge. I do not believe this legislation is sinister. I do not believe that it is legislation that leads to significant concern in the community and to talk of confrontation and bloodshed. I believe, quite on the contrary, that this legislation is in some real measure due to the recommendations of organisations such as the Swanson Committee, a Senate select committee and the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I; is well based on unbiased recommendations. 
The legislation is the result of a continuing and proper process of examination and adjustment of a specific law which dates back to the Whitlam era of 1974. The amendments represent proper adjustment and development according to circumstances as they change in the life and operation of any community. I think that this community is prone to believe that an undertaking or a circumstance that applies in a specific year must apply forever; if it does not somebody has broken a promise or let somebody down. 
Only several years ago the Opposition suggested for instance- I say this in the context of genuine discussion- that uranium in this country should be mined and exported. Today the Opposition contends that that is not its view. I would be the first to agree that the Opposition has a right to change its view in that sort of circumstance. Similarly I believe that most, if not all, of the laws under which we live are of a nature that we, if truly free and democratic people, have a duty and obligation to change, mould and fit to the changing circumstances of the society and the economy. 
What the Government has done in the amendments to the Trade Practices Act is, I believe, a responsible exhibition of that sort of changing and moulding.  Senator Button,  with almost the first words he used earlier today, said that much of the legislation has not been used. I believe he made that statement in the form of criticism. I think it is wrong to criticise the legislation on that basis. If it is not necessary to use the legislation, one would assume that commonsense is occurring in the first place. The fact that the legislation is not being used does not necessarily mean that it is bad legislation. I believe that there would be no need to use the legislation if, as  Senator Elstob  said, there is better understanding, there are long term contracts and there is responsibility. If we are now moving towards that state of affairs, against the background of the legislation that we have and that we change from time to time, we are on the right track. 
The Trade Practices Amendment Bill applies itself to three main matters. It extends the present exception from the prohibition in section 45a of price fixing for joint ventures relating to services to correspond to those relating to goods. That is a reasonable and proper exercise. The Bill also extends the specific prohibition of false or misleading advertisements from being applicable only to agencies to being applicable to individual employers. I believe that is a proper circumstance. Finally, it deals with manufacturers warranties. It is proposed that the same responsibilities will apply to manufacturers as already apply to retailers and importers. That, too, is a proper responsibility. 
As to the Trade Practices Amendment Bill (No. 2), the Government takes the view that in simple and round terms the national interest must surely be dominant at all times in considering relationships between capital and labour and employer and employee and relationships in the community in which we live. This country is a great trading nation. We have sufficient problems in respect of the vagaries of climate and the vagaries of international markets not to confront ourselves in any way with unnecessary industrial unrest. I hope that the amendment to section 45d will serve purely and simply to contain problems in the industrial field so that reason and commonsense will be given a fair and proper opportunity to survive and so that this country can progress to the point to which it should progress. 
I rise to take part in this debate with a measure of regret. I would agree with  Senator Grimes  in relatively few areas but I agree with his view that pensions and pensioners should not be treated as political footballs. Therefore I think it is unfortunate that this afternoon, at the behest of the Opposition, we are discussing a matter which on all grounds is an emotional issue. I believe that in one sense it is almost an insult to refer to those extremely valuable members of our community- there are nearly 2 million pensioners- as political footballs. They certainly would not regard themselves as political footballs. They certainly recognise, as we recognise, that they have made a great contribution to the development and maintenance of this country. If at times such as this we suggest in any way that this issue is a political football I think we do a great disservice to the pensioners of this country who, over the period of their lives, have contributed so much to Australia's development. 
I suppose that pensions, like every other area of government involvement, in the last resort must be included in a consideration of priorities. In the current financial year the Liberal-National Country Party Government is committed to spending in the social services area something like  21Vi  per cent or 28 per cent of its total revenue. If we are talking about priorities, who could say that we do not hold the interests of the pensioner group in the community at a very high level of priority when in fact we are devoting almost 30 per cent of our total revenue to the social services area? When one looks at other areas of involvement, such as education, health, defence and communications, one can see that the Government's program is quite immense. I believe that the proportion of funds allocated to the social services area is evidence of the very high priority that we place on the circumstances of pensioners in our community. 
In a sense I think it is a shame that we should spend some hours discussing this matter this afternoon because it seems to me- and I have spoken with and continue to speak from time to time with great numbers of pensioners- that the majority of pensioners have decided that what was judged to be correct by the Government for last year's Budget was in fact a responsible judgment. Of course, when the interval of payment is extended, the first reaction by those who are directly affected will be that that is a bad thing. That was the first reaction. A great many pensioners have examined all the circumstances of this decision and I believe that very largely they are prepared to admit that the capacity of the economy to pay and the direction of the economy- to control inflation above all thingshave been such that what was selected as Government policy for 1978-79 was after all, a reasonably responsible move. 
I turn to the motion which refers in part to: 
The restoration by the Government of twice yearly indexation for all pensions and benefits under the Social Security and Repatriation systems. 
We are in a moving society. Because a certain circumstance exists as a result of the 1978-79 Budget it does not mean that adjustments and changes will not be made at the appropriate time and in the circumstances as they arise. Changes and adjustments will continually be made in this area, just as they will be made in areas such as defence and education. They will be made right across the board of human activity in Australia. That is why I somewhat abhor the constant references to broken promises and broken undertakings, of failing to live up to undertakings. 
I think we should examine the words of the motion with a greater measure of reality. People in every walk of life are constantly making promises and giving undertakings. Indeed,  Senator Guilfoyle,  who spoke earlier this evening, indicated that even some of the undertakings and promises of  Mr Whitlam  were not accomplished. People are always making promises and there needs to be genuine concern to accomplish any undertaking. But I believe that people have an equal responsibility to understand that an undertaking cannot always be something of an iron-like or steel-like nature. It cannot be totally and absolutely inflexible. If it were one would have to assume that circumstances never change and that one would not need to consider what is constantly happening around us. Circumstances, emphasis and attitudes change within a month, within a year or within a number of years and Government has a responsibility to recognise this fact. 
At long last the Government is reaching a successful point in the battle with inflation and this is of extreme importance to the pensioner section of our community, as it is to the whole community. During a period of three years we have seen the level of inflation drop from something like 17 1/2 per cent to 7.8 per cent last year- a reduction of more than half. This reduction is probably of more significance to the pensioners of Australia than to any other section of our community. This Government gave a basic undertaking at the last two elections that it would reduce the inflation rate. The Government is being successful in this respect. This fact is recognised around the world. Whether all of us like it or not, industry and commerce inside and outside this country are recognising that economic activity is turning upwards. This point has been emphasised by member nations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. It has also been recognised and promoted by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. There is a commonly held view that this economy is moving in an upward direction. 
The reduction in the rate of inflation is the most significant contribution that this Government or any government can make for the welfare of all the people- pensioners and all others alike- in the context of our economy and our society. I suggest that no government in a social service based state, such as the one in which we live, would want to make matters more difficult for pensioners. There is no earthly reason why that would be an objective of any government. What a responsible government must do is to see that pensioners enjoy the best possible circumstances within the capacity of the economy. That is what a responsible government must do and that is what this Government has been trying to do and, I believe, has been succeeding in doing. From the best information I can obtain the pensioner group in Australia enjoys a standard of living which is equal to and probably better then the standard in any other country round the world. That is something of which we should be proud and which we should seek to maintain. 
It is mighty hard in a debate like this one not to repeat some of the things that have been said before but again I draw attention to the words expressed earlier by  Senator Guilfoyle  when she explained that if an inflation rate is halved there is a good argument for extending the period between changes in pension rates; that is a 10 per cent inflation rate is reduced to 5 per cent, an annual change to pensions would be roughly as effective as biannual change in the former circumstance. Government action in regard to pensions was taken in the 1 978 Budget. I think that it is important to recall why the action was taken and to observe as time goes by whether it remains the most appropriate action or whether changes must in fact occur. Action was taken because the rate of inflation had fallen significantly- from 17.5 per cent to 7.8 per cent in three years. It was projected at that time that that inflation rate may be as low as 5 per cent by the middle of this year. That may or may not be true but that was the projection of the time and that was one of the basic reasons for the Government's action. 
The other point we should remember is that the adjustment of pensions has been maintained as being exactly referable- 100 per cent referable- to moves in the consumer price index. Of course, that is not so in the circumstance of wage adjustments in this country. The cost of biannual adjustment has been referred to before. There was a saving to the Treasury of something approaching $30m in the first case and between $60m and $70m in the case of a full year. I do not think that the extent of the cost to the community of adjustments in pensions is fully and clearly understood. An adjustment of $1 a week over a full year costs the revenue of this country- the taxpayer- something like $116m. To raise the level of pensions by 6 per cent to 30 per cent would cost $ 1.5 billion in a year. I am certain that the circumstances of the pensioners will remain a prime objective of this Government but I am equally sure that the pensioners themselves will recognise in the last resort that their income is related to the total efficiency of the economy. What they receive has to be referable to the capacity to pay of the total Australian community. I close by saying merely that to vote for the motion that is before us this afternoon, regardless of all pertinent circumstances, would have to be an irresponsible act. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Development aware of a report in a recent producers' journal which says, inter alia, that because of the availability of oil from China and Mexico, Australia need not be unduly concerned about potential shortfalls in oil supplies from Iran? Can the Minister advise the Senate of the state of development and potential of these sources, with particular reference to Australia's needs? 
-Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The  Chairman having reported accordingly- 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the Drug Intelligence Reporting Centre set up late last year with a reverse charge telephone service provided to encourage the public to report spontaneously and quickly to the Federal Bureau of Narcotics any suspicious activity which might be indicative of drug smuggling or trafficking. How successful has been the public's response to this initiative? 
-The Committee is considering clause 8 of the Customs Amendment Bill 1979.  Senator Button  has moved amendment No. 1 as shown in the circulated list of proposed amendments. 
I rise to support the 1979-80 Budget which I believe and which industry and commerce inside and outside of this country believe is a blueprint, a responsible document that will take this country along the course to recovery on which it has been set for some years and on which it will proceed in the years ahead. I follow in this debate  Senator Primmer,  who has spoken for the Labor Opposition. In many respects I have a very high regard for the honourable senator, but today he fell into the mistake of adopting the usual attitude of the party to which he belongs, one which seems to be concerned above all else with launching abusive and destructive attacks upon, in particular, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I do not know why the Australian Labor Party and its socialist supporters do not learn that that sort of constant abuse and attack does not really pay dividends. I know that it is quite to the contrary. I stand here in this chamber as a member of a relatively small, numerically, party in this Government coalition. 
As my colleague has said, we have the quality. We have been a significant party in this country for some 60 years and over that period we have been constantly the butt of socialist abuse. My point is that that kind of socialist abuse has never been anything other than a strength to us. In fact, it has virtually served as a commendation of us. That is why I express surprise that  Senator Primmer,  of all people, should have spent a significant amount of time in abusing Malcolm Fraser and saying that he was not a suitable subject for television. I believe that, more and more, Australians recognise in Malcolm Fraser the sort of leader that they really want, the sort of leader that, incidentally, they have elected twice in three years with the highest majorities that this country has ever afforded to any leader.  Mr Fraser  is proving, somewhat sadly for the Opposition and the socialists, to be one who is determined to keep to a straight and constant line. As this Budget will demonstrate, he is the leader of a government which has adopted the socio-economic measures that are necessary to lead us out of the problems into which a relatively short socialist era led us. 
I wish to say in the beginning that I am somewhat sad to see that, in some significant parts of the media, on the Opposition benches and in the minds of a number of commentators and pseudo-academics it has been considered appropriate- as always- to engage in a constant tirade of abuse about and constant and savage opposition to the Budget. Translated into the political circumstances of Australia, it represents a sad situation and does nothing more than slow down economic recovery and our chances of reaching our potential as individuals, as groups and as a nation. It drives further apart the two basic political entities in this country, and the wider that gap becomes the less chance there is for the survival of that free democracy which is the Australian system, the system of which I believe we are all so proud. It is sad reflection that when the Government brings down a document that is, in the main, a responsible and sensible answer to our socio-economic situation, one finds from the other side of the chamber a reaction that is totally abusive, totally negative. In such circumstances no Australian really benefits. I believe that all of us, if we are honest with each other, will know that that is so. 
A budget- this Budget is no exception- is an important document, an important design for all of the people of a nation, in this case Australia. This Budget is an important document for Australia itself. More than that, it is important to people and nations round the world. Prosperity, like depression, is a cumulative circumstance. If this country is able to rise along an economic and social course which takes it somewhere close to the maximum of its capacity it becomes a successful economy, a nation which not only benefits its own people but also is able to contribute to greater prosperity all round the world. It can do that because as communication becomes faster and more sophisticated as the decades roll by, not only the people within our own country but also people around the world are more closely interdependent than ever in the history of the world in which we live. In the working of an economy and the society, it is absolutely important that there is a proper and real measure of confidence. It is the purpose of this Budget, when properly understood, to establish that sort of confidence. It is my hope and objective that the Budget will be received in that manner. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Some 10 days ago when addressing myself to the Budget Papers I was talking of the significance of the wide ranging effects of the 1979 Budget on the Australian people as individuals and groups, on Australia and, beyond that, on nations outside our country. I was doing so because prosperity and depression are cumulative circumstances and are certainly related to the programs that are drawn up by countries around the world, in their various economic Budgets. This one is no exception. I was saying how important it is that a Budget should be made to work by confidence and by the effort of the people. A Budget, no matter who brings it down, can be a document, a mechanism and a plan, but whether it reaches its real potential is in the last resort up to the people themselves. They need to have confidence, and I believe that the path proposed by this Budget is a proven and correct path. Throughout history it has often been the case that the prophets of doom are the perpetrators of doom. It certainly is not the intention ofthe Australian people at this stage, as they are rising out of many social and economic problems, to return to a situation of doom. 
It is patently pathetic to think that a government- certainly this coalition Government- would have any interest by way of the socio-economic measures that are contained in this Budget in destroying the freedom, productivity and development of this great land. We could not possibly follow that course unless it was our determination to destroy the system. The system is the Australian way. It is a system which is the evolution of tradition and circumstance over many decades, indeed now over two centuries. It is a tradition, an evolution, of which most Australians- I would like to think all Australians- are basically proud. If that is the case they will have the determination and the confidence to make this Budget work in the way that it should work and has the capacity to work. 
I believe it is important from time to time to cast a thought on the issue of nationalism. It is generally accepted historically that nationalism belonged to the 19th century, at least in terms of the Western world. But today in the late 20th century we are surrounded by an emerging nationalism. If we are to play our proper part in the development of the world and of internationalism it is imperative that we should become aware once again of our national responsibilities and our national image. The only way that nationalism can be a disadvantage to the development of internationalism is if it involves itself in exploitation. Internationalism by exploitation, of course, is something to be avoided. But given that fact, the existence of nationalism in this country and around the world is important to the final development of internationalism. 
I said earlier that to be successful a Budget must have a real measure of confidence behind it. In a free society confidence can be gained by the determination and capacity of people to amass facts and to analyse them. I believe that beyond the obvious aims of education, which are to provide a facility, a capacity, among young people-  (Quorum formed).  I was saying that it is imperative for a free society if it is to survive, to develop at the end of the tunnel of education young citizens who are determined and able to analyse the circumstances that they find around them. This alone can counter the damage that can be done by confusion, distortion and half truths, whether they be relevant to the fact of the matter or to the objectives that guide a government. It is absolutely essential that we recognise the problems that arise from distortions, whether they come from political critics or from the media across the whole general range of issues. Distortion is the one thing that leads to confusion and inefficiency in a socio-economic system. I propose, because of this distortion and confusion, which in many areas, has become the legacy of recent times, to restate, without repetitious detail, just a few of the major emphases of this 1979-80 Budget. 
A Budget cannot be looked upon in isolation. It is part of a continuing circumstance and has to be referable to what has gone before. It must look forward with a view to achieving the policies and objectives of the government that introduces it. Thus, it is important that we recognise that a budget cannot and must not be looked at in isolation. It is something that operates in changing circumstances, both inside and outside of the country in which it is presented. No government, and ours is no exception to the rule, can be, or would expect to be, totally satisfied with the socio-economic circumstances that from time to time are to be found in its economy. Because it is not totally and absolutely satisfied, it must from time to time see the necessity to mould and change its approach as circumstances themselves change- often totally and absolutely unpredictably. 
That brings me to comment on what I recognise as a broken-promise phobia that has been running around this country for some time but, which, I believe, is starting to run very slowly indeed, if it has not already stopped. A broken promise has to be looked at in the circumstances of the country in which it is alleged to have been broken. In the course of the development of a socio-economic system, from time to time changes, both internal and external, occur. These must of course, be met by a responsible government. They are a challenge to government and, as it seeks to develop certain policy objectives it must be prepared, if it is responsible to adjust to circumstances which will change whether we like it or not. 1 recall, as I look around, that many of the socalled problems that confront this country today, such as an over-supply of cash in the community, are in fact, when analysed, seen to be the problems of recovery and should present a measure of challenge to the Australian people. That attitude should be basic to the sort of confidence that can get Australia out of the problems that have confronted it for some years now. Our job, and this Budget is one of the tools in performing that job, is not to scrap the system, not to scrap the evolutionary product of 200 years of effort, but to amend it, to adjust it and to mould it. That is what a Budget is all about and that should be the responsible direction in which a government should move. 
I wish to refer briefly to one or two of the major moves made in this Budget, if only to remind the Senate of what it has done and what it proposes to do. In the first place, it continues its emphasis on running down inflation, which has become rampant in this country. It seeks to do that in a great number of ways. I shall not concentrate on them all, but I remind the Senate that the Budget seeks to reduce the deficit by $1.3 billion and the domestic deficit by $ 1.4 billion, to the lowest point in more than six years. This is a real and proper contribution to the control of inflation, for no matter how or in what manner one may argue it, there can be no doubt that the funding of a deficit is inflationary. A deficit can be funded by borrowing money, by printing money or by way of taxation. All three, in varying measure, are inflationary. I refer now to the tax reduction which begins to operate on 1 December. This is an area about which there perhaps has been more confusion, distortion, half truths and smart reflections made than has been the case in respect of any other section of the Budget. The fact, and I do not want to embellish it, is that on 1 December the amount of tax paid in each dollar earned will be less than it was before that date. 
And the average rate over the 1979-80 period will be less than the average rate of the previous financial year. 
I rise this evening to support the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1979. I must say that I have enjoyed the reasonable and relatively quiet approach of the two Opposition speakers to this point,  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Tate.  It does disturb me to hear  Senator Tate  describing this legislation as legislation which sets out to denigrate the trade union movement, to provoke and to antagonise. I want to make a few general remarks at the beginning about industrial relations. I do regret that in the circumstances that we have tonight we find ourselves taking the view, or having the view promoted from the Opposition side of this chamber, that this industrial legislation seeks only to antagonise, oppose and alienate the trade union movement. I want to make the point that no matter what legislation it is, whether it is industrial relations legislation or that which is referable to any of a host of other areas of importance, unless the Australian community is prepared to give it a trial, to get behind and promote the legislation, whatever government may be in power, that legislation has less and less opportunity of proving successful. 
If all that this debate does in this Senate chamber tonight and perhaps tomorrow is to create a fantastic antipathy between one side and the other, it puts this legislation well and truly behind scratch. The result is a disaster for the whole of the Australian people- trade unionists, employers and the whole cross-section of the Australian community. And so it is with a great deal of regret that I see our developing this discussion about this legislation which seeks to improve the industrial laws of this country. It is with a great deal of distress that I see a circumstance arising in which all we are going to achieve is to promote a view from one side that all trade unionists and all trade unionism are bad things. From our side comes a view that that is not so. Indeed, we believe that it is not so. We are going a long way down the track towards destroying the opportunity of an improvement in industrial relations having any real chance of working. 
I do not believe that there is anybody in Australia today who would deny that the trade union movement over the decades has contributed a great deal to the development of the total Australian community. There is no suggestion that that is not a fact. The problem that confronts every Australian- I mark every Australian because that includes millions of trade unionists- is the abuse of power, whether by organisations in a significant measure or by individuals within those organisations. This type of legislation is an attempt to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to the extent that it will be more effective in solving the problems that confront us in the industrial area and in curtailing the abuse of power which from time to time creeps into a free society. There are not many people around the world who live by the rule of law. It is in that area of trying to direct itself to the control of the abuse of power in the industrial relations area, whether it be abuse from a trade union area or from an employer area. To stop that abuse is the area to which this legislation directs itself. This Bill in the main seeks to strengthen and to make more flexible the solution capacity of the conciliation and arbitration system. That is an objective that must surely have the support of every Australian across the whole canvas of this country. 
The conciliation and arbitration system in Australia has been and still is regarded with considerable envy by many nations around the world. It is a system of industrial settlement which stands many tests. It is a system that has been built up in this Australian community and has basically produced a successful result. It would be far from responsible of any government in this country not to observe the operations of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, not to observe the shortcomings that appear from time to time and, even worse, to fail to try to resolve the problems that may be seen within the conciliation and arbitration system. That is the pure and simple objective of this piece of legislation. If we merely seek to promote it as something that sets out to destroy the Australian trade union movement, of course we are determined to take the course that will give the legislation the least chance of being effective. It hardly needs to be said that nobody gains from industrial unrest, whether a trade union member or an employer. No matter who he is, no one gains. Indeed, the loss is to productivity. The loss is to job opportunities in this country. I am aware that most significantly the loss is also to the market opportunities of this country at a time when our potential is so great that it is exciting. 
Recently I had the honour of leading a delegation from this Parliament to South East Asia and South Korea. In South Korea, when we were observing the quite fantastic development of industry and commerce, particularly of heavy industry in that country, we were pleased to find that South Korea bought from Australia, traded with Australia in a very large measure; that its industries were reliant on Australian iron ore to an extent of something like 35 per cent and reliant on Australian coal to about 61 per cent. The point I want to make is that it was disturbing to find that these people, who have a great measure of friendship for Australians and whose friendship I know is reciprocated, are saying to us that we must look-  (Quorum formed.)  Mr President,  I apologise for my inability to retain an audience but I shall continue now that it has increased under duress, from the point which I had reached. I was talking about South Korea. The point I want to make is that it disturbed me, and I believe it disturbed every member of that Australian parliamentary delegation, to find that the Koreans were indicating quite clearly to us that they saw Australia as becoming an unstable market and a somewhat insecure supplier. That is a desperate circumstance. 
I make the point as an indication of the great danger to all people- to Australian trade unionists, to employers and to the whole cross section of our community- of failing to recognise the enormous responsibility we have not only to ourselves but also to the people who are our neighbours to the near north and, indeed, further north. Anybody who fails to recognise that this sort of thing is destructive of the capacity of this country is interested only in the destruction of the conciliation and arbitration system. I do not believe that the great mass of Australians are interested in destroying the conciliation and arbitration system. They are interested in maintaining, developing and moulding it and in making it work for the great community in which it operates. That is the objective of the legislation that is before the Senate. It is not the sort of legislation that should raise emotions; it is the sort of legislation that should make people sit down, think about it and ask themselves whether it has the capacity to achieve the sorts of things that it sets out to achieve. 
This Bill proposes amendments to speed up and make more flexible the whole operation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I wish to state briefly the basic changes that it seeks to implement. They are relatively simple and most thinking people will admit that they are responsible efforts to control the abuse of power in industrial relations. The amendments will require a commissioner to consult with his  deputy president  before making or varying an award relating to wages and conditions. The amendments will prohibit the Commission from ordering, recommending or sanctioning in any way an employer paying wages to an employee for time when the employee is engaged in industrial action. They will provide for the expeditious hearing of stand-down applications before either a single member of the Commission or a Full Bench. The amendments will provide that the question of whether an industrial dispute exists may be the subject of a reference to a Full Bench. They will enable an industrial dispute or part of an industrial dispute to be referred to a Full Bench at the conciliation stage and they will reinforce the powers of the  President  of the Commission by enabling him to withdraw a matter from another member of the Commission and either deal with it himself or refer the matter to a Full Bench. Finally, they provide increased protection for the community by creating an alternative path to the deregistration of organisations and thereby remove delays in the deregistration process in cases where the safety, health or welfare- in other words, I believe, the public interest- of the community are put at risk by industrial action. 
I wish to expand a little on those objectives. The consultation that is required between a commissioner and his  deputy president  is a matter that has come under a measure of dispute and excited discussion in this chamber tonight, yet it is not a terribly unreal or unreasonable situation. It already exists and in most cases it has in fact occurred. All this legislation does is make it formal that that sort of consultation should occur. I believe that if it does it will create a greater consistency in the operation of the conciliation and arbitration system. Far from being, as is sometimes intimated, insulting to the individual commissioner that he should be required to talk over a matter with a  deputy president-  not to change his view but to talk things over- it is merely giving him a wider breadth of involvement. Indeed, it is releasing him from some of the extreme pressure which individual commissioners must feel themselves to be under when they determine that they have to come to a conclusion more or less in isolation. 1 do not think that the necessity for a commissioner to consult with his  deputy president  is a great impost at all. It will, it must and it should create a measure of consistency in the application of industrial law in this country. It will broaden the area of responsibility but it will take away a great deal of the stress that applies to the individual commissioner in the present circumstance. 
-You said that,  Senator. I  do not know what the 25 commissioners have said. 
-No, but I have to listen. That is the unfortunate part about it. The amendment that makes it outside the power of the Commission to award pay retrospectively to people on strike is a reasonable and proper amendment. Goodness me, if an injustice has been done there is always the capacity to appeal. There is no reason on earth why the Commission should be empowered to award strike pay retrospectively. The third amendment makes it much easier and quicker for stand-down applications to be considered and approved, and that too is of great significance. It is totally unreasonable that people should not be performing work for certain reasons outside the control of the employer and yet be paid. That is only a simple and quick way of bankrupting Australian industry or commerce, whatever area may be involved, and the bankrupting of Australian industry and commerce is certainly not in the interests of anybody in this country. The stand-down application is a sensible approach to a problem. In the past it has been far too difficult and has taken far too long for that sort of relief to be provided. Indeed, it is probably better from the employees' position that they should be stood down than that they should be in the sort of tough financial circumstances that will quickly arise if they are sacked. There is a great deal to substantiate that particular amendment. 
The capacity to get a reference to a Full Bench has been hampered by procedural difficulties, and these amendments seek to get rid of those difficulties. The fact that a matter can be taken straight to the Full Bench has been criticised in some quarters. It has been said, I believe rather ridiculously, that this denies people the right of appeal. To what would they be appealing? They would be appealing to the Full Bench, and if the Full Bench considers the matter from the beginning of the problem then the matter of appeal loses whatever significance it undoubtedly may have had. 
-The work load is a problem that has been considered, of course. Generally speaking, the deputy presidents and the panels dealing with the various areas of industry are extremely well informed and the work load would not be increased significantly by the propositions in these amendments. 
The cancellation of registration is the final amendment proposed. That is being heralded as a disaster in some areas, and yet it is something that is being greatly overstated. The deregistration procedure and the whole range of alternatives which can be used and which are lesser than deregistration are matters that will be implemented only in extreme circumstances. There is no shadow of doubt that this sort of severe penalty would be applied only in the most severe circumstances, which under this legislation are a threat to health, to welfare and to safety. The definition of those things remains the province of the Commission. The Minister can ask that a matter be considered by the Full Bench of the Commission as it is a threat to the safety, health or welfare of the community- in other words, a threat to the public interest. The Commission will decide whether, in its view, such a circumstance does exist. If it makes a declaration that there is such a threat, of course that is a very serious situation to the whole community. Then the Governor-General, naturally on the advice of his Ministers in the Executive Council, can make a determination within six months whether to cancel the registration of a union or whether to do any of a number of lesser things; that is, whether to restrict some of the privileges or to control some of the funds. In other words, there is a significant range of alternative penalties which the GovernorGeneral, on that advice, can implement. The mere fact that those penalties are there will probably hasten the solution of problems in the industrial field. 
If they are constitutionally valid, and I do not claim to be a constitutional lawyer or, indeed, a lawyer. Naturally, that would be pertinent to the matter. There is no doubt that this sort of legislation will bring a real and sincere measure of moderation in the trade union movement and in the employer movement. It becomes patently clear under this sort of amended legislation that there can be a real retribution for abuse of power- I emphasise the words 'abuse of power'- because that is the only area with which this sort of legislation involves itself. 

 Mr President, as my time has nearly passed, I want to comment on one or two of the matters that have been raised tonight during this discussion or debate, define it as we will.  Senator Bishop  mentioned, in his quiet and reasoned contribution, the need for consultation. Indeed, he had almost a consultation phobia. Yet there is every opportunity for consultation. One of the sad things about this Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill is that the National Labour Consultative Council meeting was not attended by the union representatives. They were invited-- 
The honourable senator may well know much more than I do, but as I understand it an invitation was extended, as it should be, to the union representatives and they were not present at the meeting on 6 August. They failed to be party to the discussion in spite of early advice that the meeting of the Council would take place on that particular day, 6 August. It is a shame to suggest that there has not been consultation when quite obviously the capacity to consult and the knowledge that consultation would take place were well known to all parties. The meeting of the conciliation and arbitration commissioners in Sydney this afternoon was raised, I think, in the early part of  Senator Bishop's  speech. The suggestion was that we should postpone this debate because the commissioners were meeting in Sydney. Surely the commissioners can meet whenever they choose, discuss what they like in whatever method, and come to whatever conclusions they may. The Government, whether this Government or another one, is here to legislate; the commissioners are there to implement the law. The commissioners may meet whenever they choose, discuss what they will and come to conclusions, as they undoubtedly will. I do not intend to follow this matter any further. I merely hope that in the remarks I have made tonight I have indicated that the amendments proposed in this legislation seek responsibly to stop the abuse of power in industrial relations in this community. I support them. 


 - Mr President, as  Chairman  I have to report that during the proceedings of the Committee  Senator Walsh  committed an offence in that he wilfully disregarded the ruling of the Chair. 
This matter has been partly tested in the Senate before, I think towards the end of the last sitting. At that time I requested that the matter receive the attention of the Standing Orders Committee so as to clarify whether there was any constraint, special protection or restriction on the comments that may be made about members of the judiciary, including the Chief Justice. That has not been done, although there has been almost a full session in which to do it. So I submit that there is nothing in the Standing Orders of the Senate which provides any special privilege or protection for the Chief Justice or which says that he or any other justice should be treated in any way different from any other citizen. 

 -Mr President, I have to report that the Committee has considered the Bill and agreed to the following: 
That the Bill be reported without requests. 
That the Committee, having considered the reports of the Estimates committee recommends- 
that the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce: 
Australia's financial contribution to, and participation in, international trade organisations; 
that the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations: 
Expenditure by departments and authorities on their own libraries; 
that- (i) the Government be again requested to allocate West Block to Parliament for its use, pending building of the New and Permanent Parliament House; 
if the request is granted, refurbishing and restoration of the building be undertaken without delay, after consultation with Parliamentary departments; and 
the Government be requested to advise the Senate, during the first sitting week in 1980, of its attitude to the occupancy of West Block by the Parliament. 
Motion ( by  Senator Carrick)  agreed to: 
That the report be adopted. 
Third  Reading 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Carrick)  read a third time. 
-by leave- I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Indonesia, the Philippines, the Republic of Korea and Thailand from 10 July to 31 July 1979. I seek leave to move a motion to take note of the report. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I will address myself to this report on this occasion as briefly as I can. This delegation which visited the countries I have mentioned, plus, for two days only, Hong Kong, was I believe made up of an excellent cross-section of the Australian Parliament. It comprised  Mr Cotter  and  Mr James  from the House of Representatives and from this chamber  Senator the Hon.  Reg Bishop and  Senator David  Hamer. To those members of the delegation I express my appreciation for their co-operation, good humour, and, indeed, their responsibility on this tour. I also want to express my appreciation and the delegation's appreciation for the great help and diligence of  Mr Tom  Wharton of the Senate staff, who accompanied us as secretary to the delegation. It is a satisfying experience, on delegations such as this, to find that a group of members from the Australian Parliament can be seen to be an Australian entity and can reach, in most areas, a consensus of opinion. I believe this is of great value to this country internally and externally. 
In spite of the sophistication and speed of modern communication, there is no doubt that there is no real alternative to the value of personal contact when it comes to understanding the problems of the people who live relatively close to us or elsewhere and indeed to understanding the people themselves. This sort of delegation is a pleasant and informative experience, but it is also an experience of great responsibility to understand, and perhaps even more importantly to be understood by, our friends and neighbours wherever they may be. There is no time to refer in detail to the events and the facts that were found individually in these countries on this occasion. Suffice it to say that the extreme seniority of rank of the hosts whom we met and the hospitality of those countries were in every sense an exhibition of the regard in which those countries hold Australia and, I believe, Australians. 
It was clear that in this area there is recognition of a large measure of interdependence on trade, development and security. The countries of our northern neighbours have vast populations and the exciting potential of developing lands. Their great need, as indeed for the rest of the world, is for a long and significant period of peace and stability for they are an evolving social and economic entity at a moment of technological explosion. This must be seen to be an advantage on the one hand and certainly a challenge on the other. It is an advantage because technology has the capacity to increase the productivity and raise the standards of living across the whole canvass of society in those countries. It is a challenge as technology is a challenge to the rest of the world. It is a challenge to their capacity to adjust and develop their education systems to cope with the problems of technology, employment, or indeed, in many cases, unemployment with which they are so significantly involved. 
In very brief terms I reflect on one or two areas of interest generally in the countries we visited. We were, I believe to a man, impressed on several grounds with the value and nature of Australian developmental aid through the area. The fact that that aid is untied and unconditional is appreciated in a very real sense by these neighbours and friends of ours. More significant also is the very nature of the aid because it is involved largely in the development of land, communication, roads and bridges, irrigation and research into animal and plant breeding which is of great significance to these peoples. Perhaps the most significant part of that sort of aid is that it is closely related to the natural history and development of those societies. Some 70 per cent of the people in those societies are in the peasant farming category. The aid that we are delivering in communication and research enables them to improve their standards of living along their traditional and evolutionary lines. I believe it is well recognised that this is the circumstance and the objective of Australian aid in those areas. There is a very great need for us to pay attention to the social and political evolution of proud people who live mainly to our north and to understand their traditions, disciplines and cultures. It is only in the final resort that by understanding the traditions, cultures and evolutionary circumstances of our friends and neighbours we will be able to solve the mutual problems we have. 
Technology is bringing about a great change in the occupations and productivity of these lands. It is of great significance across the whole range of the countries we visited. We saw the result of technology in the Republic of Korea where to the nth degree there has been an industrial explosion in shipbuilding, textiles, the motor industry and steel mills. It is an exciting and extraordinarily big enterprise. That Republic, as a trader with Australia, receives from us something like 35 per cent of its iron ore and some 60 per cent of its coal. It has a tremendous future, but it has a great poverty of resources. Its concern lies, amongst other things, in the stability and reliability of the source of supply of these raw materials. 
I refer to another area which is of great concern to the delegation and which we had an opportunity to observe at first hand on a number of occasions, that is, the circumstance of refugees in the area. We were able to see refugees in a staging camp at Jakarta in Indonesia, many of whom were in fact coming to Australia. In Thailand we saw a different group of refugeesmany thousands on the Kampuchean bordersome of whom have been in camps for three or four years and all of whom were refugees by land as distinct from the boat people. We saw many thousands of boat people in Hong Kong and their circumstances could only be deplored and their courage admired. We were impressed with the efforts of the United Nations, the Hong Kong authorities, the Indonesians and, indeed, the Thais looking after these people, who live in desperate circumstances. It was our view that Australia contributed and will continue to contribute to a very great degree to this enormous problem. I think it was of value that we were able  to expose more clearly circumstances that were sometimes somewhat misunderstood as to Australia's effort in the refugee field. It was our endeavour to make clear what we had done in respect of the intake of refugees into this country and aid that we had given in the form of finance and food. It was our opinion that these points, after discussions, were much better appreciated. It was also our view, as it seemed to be the view of the Geneva conference in July, that the source of the refugee was the area to which the world must pay the greatest attention. 
I do not want to take any more time of the Senate. I make those few reflections on behalf of this delegation. I close by expressing my appreciation as leader of the delegation and the appreciation of its members, of the hospitality we received from the host countries, from Australian personnel in the diplomatic field, their staff, and Australians involved in the various aid development operations, who were held in extremely high regard by the people in the lands in which they served. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
