 I support the motion for the Address in-Reply so ably moved by  Senator Rae  and seconded by  Senator Maunsell.  I congratulate them on their speeches and on the amount of work that they put into them before delivering them.  Senator Rae  talked largely on the problems confronting Australia in relation to defence and referred in particular to the defence needs of South East Asia, including Vietnam.  Senator Maunsell  talked largely on the problems associated with Australia's primary industries. I congratulate also  His Excellency  the Governor-General on the Speech which he was kind enough to deliver in this chamber. In the course of his Speech he touched on 60 or 70 subjects. For the first time for many years we are able to envisage, from what we have been told and from the number of Bills which have been introduced in another place and which will be ready shortly for debate in this chamber - Bills of vital importance for the development of this country - that we will be able to honour the promises given by the Government prior to the election last year. 
We have heard comment in the past about the Government making promises in order to be re-elected but then immediately forgetting its promises. There have been accusations of this in the past in one or two policy speeches delivered by the Opposition. My mind goes back to the policy speech delivered in 1966 by the late Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt, in which he made 13 or 14 different promises to the electors relating to various subjects. By the end of 1967 or the early part of 1968, 95% of those promises had been honoured. I can tell the Senate that all promises made by our present Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his last policy speech will be honoured during the life of this Parliament. If this is achieved we will go down in history as being members of political parties which have honoured all their promises. 
 I am not joking. I ask the honourable senator when replying to enumerate any promise that was made by the late Prime Minister or by any other Liberal Prime Minister which has not been honoured. In passing I remind honourable senators that when they go to the electors of Australia and make  promises  it is important that they honour those promises. I do not doubt that the Labor Party would have honoured its promises within the life of the Parliament if it had been elected. However, had it done so, the Treasury purse would have been empty and the taxpayers would have been taxed at such a high rate that they would have lost the incentive to support the Labor Party as a government. We have seen the tremendous development that has taken place in Australia. The achievement of this development has been helped by the rapid inflow of overseas capital. 1 was interested to note that  Senator Cameron,  whom I congratulate as the newly elected senator for South Australia, stipulated in the last few words of his speech that he believed that legislation should be introduced by the Government to restrict the inflow of overseas capital. So that I do not misquote the honourable senator I shall read his words as they appear in Hansard. He said: 
To ensure lhat we do not relinquish any more of our heritage and to safeguard our national independence, legislative restrictions should be imposed on the inflow of overseas investment before it is too late. 
Those are the sentiments expressed by  Senator Cameron  and supported by many members of the Opposition. 
No, you do not all agree with them but many of you do. I think you do. I believe, that if it had not been for the advent of large amounts of overseas capital into Australia we would not have had the large scale development which has taken place, and if we had not had the targe scale development which has taken place we would not have had established the great secondary industries and the mining industries which already have been established. 
The honourable senator has asked quite rightly about primary industries. I point out to him that the forsight of this Government over the past 15 or 20 years has been such that encouragement has been given to the inflow of capital for secondary industries, for mining investment and for the search for oil, if you like. It has also helped in the development of our economy which has been able to sustain a downturn in the earning capacity of our primary industries. In answer to the honourable senator's question about our primary industries I say that if we had not had this large scale development in Australia we would be relying primarily on our primary industries for our overseas income and at this very moment we would be in a state of recession, if not of depression as occurred between 1928 and 1931 when overseas prices for our primary industries fell. We have been able to sustain full employment despite the fact that, according to  Sir William  Gunn, the price of wool at this time is lower than it has been since the end of World War II. Therefore I say to the honourable senator that the inflow of overseas capital is of great significance to the development of Australia. 
Just because money comes in from overseas does not mean that all the profits made from that money are exported out of the country without the Commonwealth and the State governments concerned getting their share. Let me indicate how this occurs. If an overseas company invests $100m in an iron ore project in Australia and has an export income of $50m a year when the project gets going and makes a net profit of $10m a year, that profit is subject to company tax at a rate of about 45%. In other words to make it quite clear, about 45% of the $10m profit goes to Commonwealth revenue. Then on top of that, before net income is arrived at, a royalty ranging from 50c to $1 a ton is paid to the State Government concerned. After all this money has been received by the Commonwealth and the State, further moneys by way of payroll tax, which benefits Australia, are taken from the company. In the light of those circumstances the honourable senator claims that a profit of $10m from an investment of $100m is a bad thing for Australia. That claim has been repeated by many speakers on the Opposition side on numerous occasions. 
I say to the honourable senator that without overseas investment we would not have our present population or the great prosperity which is running through our country at this time because, as a result of the low prices that we are receiving for our major overseas income earners, such as wool, we would be in a state of recession. 
1 do not know about farmers marching but I say to the honourable senator that farmers in certain sections of Australia, irrespective of whether they are suffering from drought, are certainly suffering because of the low prices they are receiving for their products overseas. 1 refer particularly to farmers who are producing wool. At the last wool sales towards the end of 1969 farmers were able to obtain only about 39.94c a pound for their wool. When we compare that price with the 61.34c a pound that they received in the 5 years from 1951-52 to 1955-56 we see that there has been a fall of 40%, notwithstanding the fact that the minimum weekly male rate for a full weeks work, excluding overtime, has risen from $20.18 in 1950 to $49.14 today. 
I am not doubting that at all. lt costs an employee more to live today. That is another reason why there is a difference of practically 243% between what he is getting now and what he received in 1950. I remind the honourable senator that the wool growers of Australia have to meet all of those increased costs. 
The honourable senator says that the Government has failed, but I disagree. The wool growers are at this moment receiving less, than 39c per lb for wool, but the wage earner for a full week's work not including overtime is receiving 243% more today than he received in 1950. 

 Senator Milliner says that, the Government has failed to look after the wool grower. The Government endeavoured on two occasions to bring in a reserve price plan for wool, once in 1951 and again a few years ago on the recommendation of the wool industry itself. It is the policy of the Government that when the majority of growers in any industry want a plan to look after their industry the Government will support that plan. We have never yet had a majority of wool growers wanting a reserve price plan in Australia. Whether or not it would be right I cannot say. All I can tell the Senate is that if the wool growers of Australia do not receive increased prices for their wool and the cost of producing wool continues to rise as it has risen in the last 10 years, there will be very few sheep left in Australia in a very few years. 
That is the desperate position that the wool growers are in at the present time. I do not believe that it is all the fault of the wool growers. I believe that when secondary industries are established and are protected by way of tariff the cost of production is automatically increased in primary industry, which has to sell its product for what it can get on a competitive and open world market. We are advised that at this very moment the wool industry and the Government are considering the problems associated with the industry. I sincerely hope that the wool industry can put forward proposals that, firstly, are in the interests of the industry, and secondly, receive the support of a majority of the industry's own growers. That is the problem today. Sections of the industry have on two occasions come forward to the Government with proposals and the Government has said: 'Is this the wish of a majority of your growers or do you think it is? If so, we will have a referendum.' The Government has twice had a referendum, and the majority of the wool growers on each occasion did not accept the recommendations which had been put to the Government by certain organisations of that industry. If we look closely at the wool industry we find that, despite what the proponents of an improved free auction system believe, there has been on two occasions a need to sell wool which has been accumulated in large numbers of bales during periods of war. 
When World War I started the British Government undertook to purchase the Australian clip at the flat rate of 15 id per lb greasy. This undertaking did not expire until one full year after the end of the war on 30th June 1920. Wool stocks owned by the British Government at the end of World War I under the Imperial Wool Purchase Agreement amounted to a total of 1,773,825 bales. Those bales were purchased by the British Government from Australia, New Zealand, the Falkland Islands and South Africa. The BritishAustralian Wool Realisation Association Ltd, of which Australian wool growers were the shareholders, acquired 50% of the Australian carry-over wool on account of the Australian growers. Wool owned by BAWRA on 1st January 1921 totalled 918,002 bales. The Australian Government did not own any of the stocks of wool at the end of the 1914-18 war. BAWRA was responsible only for the disposal of wool carried over from the Imperial Wool Purchase Scheme. It did not handle the current clip for any of the 3i years in which it operated. The function of BAWRA was to dispose of the carry-over wool to the best advantage and as promptly as market conditions would permit, while at the same time contributing to stabilise the wool market which had become demoralised on the return to free wool sales. 
It is interesting to note that at the end of the war Australia returned to the free auction system of selling and that system broke down completely in March 1921. Just after that time BAWRA was set up. The free auction system of selling broke down because only about half of the wool that was submitted for auction could be sold, and then it was sold at prices far less than the cost of production. When BAWRA was set up it fixed a minimum reserve price of 8d per lb. The first sale after the fixing of that price was held in March 1921 and was attended by buyers who, competing for wool, would not pay the reserve price and the sales had to be cancelled. The buyers came back a month or so later then paid the reserve price and no wool was sold at a price lower than the average reserve price. 
Yes. From 1921 to about 1926 BAWRA sold over and above the wool coming to hand an amount of over 900,000 bales from the war period. BAWRA sold the wool at prices that were profitable to the growers. In about 1925-26 the Australian wool growers held an election to determine whether to continue with this so-called reserve price system or go back to the free auction system without a reserve price. The wool growers decided against going on with BAWRA and went back to the free auction system. Within 2 or 3 years we had the world-wide depression. A severe depression hit the Australian wool industry in 1929-31. 
I say that the wool growers had the opportunity of going on with the reserve price scheme but did not. What J have said is factual. With the exception of 1 or 2 years, the price of wool dropped further and further until 1939, when the Second World War broke out. Again the British Government purchased the Australian clip at a guaranteed price of 10.5d, I think, in round figures. 
The price was 10.5d sterling, which is 13.416d Australian. In 1942 or 1943 the price rose to over 15d a lb. It is very interesting to note that following World War 11 the wool held over amounted to more than 10 million bales. If the number of bales purchased but which did not bring the reserve price is taken into account, the number amounted to more than 15 million. An organisation known as the Joint Organisation was set up to handle the excess wool held by Australia, New Zealand and South Africa and to dispose of it without interfering with the wool industry. It was feared that the 10 million bales to go on the market from 1946 to 1949 would ruin the wool market under the free auction system. Again  a  reserve price scheme was brought in, this time under JO, and again Australia was able to sell all its accumulated wool, in fact, the Joint Organisation handled 15,180,590 bales during its years of operation from 1st August 1945 to 22nd January 1952. The value of the wool handled was $249m. The 15,180,590 bales were made up of stocks acquired by the Joint Organisation from the United Kingdom Government totalling 10,470,000 bales plus new clips taken over in 1945-46 amounting to 4,544,000 bales and purchases made by the Joint Organisation under reserve price arrangements amounting to 229,590 bales. After the Joint Organisation finished in 1951-52, the then price under the free auction system was about 61c a lb. Under the free auction system, the price has dropped from 61c a lb to the present price, 5 years after JO, of less than 39c a lb. The growers' costs have increased by 200%. 
In this chamber I always have spoken about the need for the industry to have some kind of scheme by which it does not need to sell at the price on offer. I have spoken of that need, which I believe is right. That is one of the methods of handling the present low prices - -call it a reserve price, if you like. I have said this before and I say it now: Every time that we go back to the free auction system the price collapses. Yet every time there is a referendum the growers, knowing of the previous price collapses, still vote for the free auction system. In 1.951 1 spoke in favour of a reserve price plan. Prior to the last: election I supported such a plan and I still support a reserve price plan. Evidently the growers do not want it. I do not see how a government could introduce a reserve price pia I unless the majority of the growers required it. 1 am an advocate for a reserve price scheme. There is no- clear evidence that there are such things as pies operating within the auction system or that nations are not bidding one against the other. 
There is no statistical evidence which shows that there has been a real collapse in the wool auction system. However, certain influences deserve examination since they could be operative in causing a collapse in the system. These influences were examined by the Wool Marketing Committee of Inquiry which was set up in January 1961 under the chairmanship of  Sir Roslyn  Philp, K.C.M.G. The terms of reference of the Committee were: 
To inquire into the present systems of marketing and of promoting the sale of the Australian wool clip and matters relating thereto, and to report upon the efficiency of these systems; to report upon the merits of any other systems or of modifications of the present systems which may be advocated to the committee of inquiry or which the  committee  itself considers would be of long-term benefit to the woolgrowing industry and in the best interests of the nation. 
The Committee considered a number of influences in the auction system which were claimed to affect competition and prices. They were: Private treaty selling; operations of wool buyers, forward selling, number of buyers, pies, aggregation of buying strength, etcetra; concentration among consumers; and wool futures. The Committee came down with the conclusion that there was still a wide spread of buying strength and the aggregation of buying strength in a few hands had not been a significant influence towards a reduction of competition in recent years. This was in 1961. I do not know that there is any clear evidence of any justification for reasoning that pies are operating in Australia. 
The wool industry is one industry that is suffering because of the low prices received. I believe that the wool industry always will be able to sell the whole of its production. I believe this industry is quite different to the Australian wheat industry. As far as wheat is concerned, the nation has done its best. Because of a continuing increase in the production of wheat by some countries which have been net importers of wheat the stage is, unfortunately, rapidly being reached where those countries will be net exporters of wheal. I read recently where Pakistan is exporting wheat and India will be in a position to do so in the next couple of years. Therefore, we have to protect our wheat growers by having a guaranteed price for a certain number of bushels. The Government has provided large amounts of money to meet the first advance on wheat. In fact, this year provision is to be made by way of legislation for an extra S200m or $300m to be made available to the Australian Wheat Board for distribution to the growers. I think this will place the total sum provided at somewhere in the vicinity of S600m. 
I do not think it enters into the matter at all. A man's suit which can be purchased for $60 to $80 has only 2 lb of wool in it. So the price of a suit would not be affected very much if the price of wool went up another 5c or 6c a lb. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is making new discoveries in regard to the treatment of woollen garments and new techniques are being developed for the manufacture of wool. The world's population is increasing rapidly, particularly in some of the colder countries. At the moment there is no fibre which can equal wool. Because of all these factors I believe that there will be always a ready market for the wool produced in Australia, particularly the finer types of wool. If one closely examines the market one will find that the price obtained in the last month or so for the finer types of wool - the 70s in count - has gone up 2c a lb. 
I do not think so, but we can discuss that later. I think the price obtained is 2c higher. I had a look at this aspect,  Senator Sim,  and I think I am correct. However, I do believe that fine wool is readily saleable throughout the world. Unfortunately, the same thing cannot be said for wheat. I hope that the wool and wheat industries will get together with the Government and work out a scheme whereby some of those people who are now growing wheat will be able to go into other forms of primary industry, such as growing fine wool, which I believe is readily saleable. 
I notice that Western Australia received quite a deal of mention in the GovernorGeneral's Speech.  His Excellency  said that the acquisition of the fighting equipment which was announced in the last Budget is proceeding. He said also that investigation into the construction of a causeway to the naval facilities to be built in Western Australia had begun and that construction on the development of Learmonth airfield would start shortly. In regard to defence personnel the Governor-General said that the strength of Australia's permanent forces, which was 83,794 at the end of 1969, was expected to increase to 86,500 by June of this year. He went on to say that legislation would be introduced to provide a uniform code of discipline for the three Services. This brings us back to the question of defence. When one looks at the question of defence one has to take into consideration national service training. There have been two forms of national service training. Under the first system youths had to register and do their training over a period of 6 months, but this was found by the defence chiefs to be insufficient time to train personnel adequately. As a result it was decided to do away with that system and rely on the volunteer system - a matter which is being discussed at considerable length throughout Australia at present by various sections of the community. It is interesting to note that after doing away with the first national service training scheme the Government found that it could not get sufficient volunteers to join the armed forces. 
 Senator Devitt  says that the Government could have done so. The fact remains that it was an impossibility. The Government has endeavoured to get volunteers to join the Army, but- 
At rates of pay which are 30% higher than any other country is prepared to pay. In an affluent society such as we have in Australia today, with virtually no unemployment, one will not get many volunteers to join the Army. It does not matter what type of advertisement is placed in the newspapers or what form of payment is offered one will not get many volunteers. The Government endeavoured to increase the number of volunteers by considerably increasing the rates of pay. I believe the rates of pay are about 30% higher than those paid in other armies throughout the world. The Government also endeavoured to increase the number of volunteers by advertising but it did not get the desired results. The Governor-General said that by June there will be 86,500 men in our permanent forces as against the figure of 83,794 at present. This will be an increase of almost 3,000 in 6 months. Could the Australian Labor Party guarantee such an increase if it were in office and had to rely on volunteers? If the Labor Party were in office it would not get the volunteers it thinks it would get. Certainly it would not gel them in such a period of time. 
I was about to mention this fact. I left it as the last shot to fire. I have no doubt that if a Labor government adopted a policy of restricting overseas investment in Australia it might be able to get sufficient volunteers because the moment overseas investment in Australia is reduced a situation of mass unemployment will occur. No doubt the unemployed would have to take the jobs available, and those jobs could be in the Army. I have very great pleasure in supporting the motion. 
The Minister for National Development has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Royalties payable by Amax Bauxite Corporation to the Western Australian Government under the Alumina Refinery (Mitchell Plateau) Agreement Act (No. 22) of 1969) will be: 
for the first 21 years. on bauxite shipped - 12.5 cents per ton; on bauxite used in the refinery - 7.5 cents per ton; on special grade bauxite produced for refractory or special purposes (other than for processing into alumina) and shipped to points within the Commonwealth - 25 cents per ton; on special grade bauxite produced for refractory or special purposes (other than for processing into alumina) and shipped to points outside the Commonwealth 40 cents per ton. 
The royalty payable will increase or decrease proportionately to the increase or decrease in the mean quarterly world selling price of aluminium above or below $A500 per ton (the mean quarterly world selling price of aluminium is the average expressed in $A's of the four prices first listed in the London Metal Bulletin in respect of Canadian primary aluminium 99.5% purity f.o.b. Toronto in each of the four quarters immediately preceding the quarter in respect of which the royalty return is required). 
the rate of royalty will be reviewed by the Stale prior to the commencement of year 22 and prior to the commencement of each seven yearly period thereafter. 
in relation to clay and other minerals (other than bauxite) mined by the company from the mineral lease, royalties will be payable under the relevant provisions of the Western Australian Mining Act. 
The Western Australian authorities have informed me as follows: 
Amax Bauxite Corporation currently holds a number of temporary reserves in Western Australia for the purpose of extracting bauxite. None of these are being mined at the present moment. When these reserves are converted to a mineral lease under the provisions of the Alumina Refinery (Mitchell Plateau) Agreement Act 1969, there will be no encroachment on any Aboriginal reserves. Royalties when collected from the company will be paid into the State Consolidated Revenue Fund'. 
The main part of my question concerned whether the Aboriginals who have tribal title to the Cape Bougainville area in Western Australia which is being mined will receive any portion of the royalty and, if so, what percentage. I shall read one section of the Minister's reply. He said: 
The Western Australian authorities have informed me as follows: 'Amax Bauxite Corporation currently holds a number of temporary reserves in Western Australia for the purpose of extracting bauxite. None of these are being mined at the present moment. When these reserves arc converted to a mineral lease under the provisions of the Alumina Refinery (Mitchell Plateau) Agreement Act 1969, there will be no encroachment on any Aboriginal reserves. Royalties when collected from the company will be paid into the State Consolidated Revenue Fund'. 
I have since received a letter from  Mr Stan  Davey, who is a field research officer with the Aborigines Advancement League of Victoria. He has been in Western Australia for a considerable period of time.  His  letter, which is dated 18th March 1970, states: 
Wondering if you are aware that the WA authorities appear to have provided you with incorrect or incomplete information in answer to your questions on Amax royalties, September 23rd. 
On 16.7.69 the 'Western Australian' reported: The Amax Bauxite Corporation last week applied for 80 mining tenements totalling 271 square miles at Cape Bougainville. All the claims are in the Kimberley native reserve which covers the whole of the 275,000 acre cape north of Admiralty Gulf. . . . Native Welfare Minister Lewis- 
Who is, of course, the Western Australian minister -  said: 'We decided a more practical way would be to excise the area needed by Amax, lt will be treated as if it were a reserve and royalties will therefore be applicable.' 
On 13.8.69 when the excisions were recommended for approval the 'West Australian' reported, page 31, 'Native Welfare Commissioner F. E. Gare said that in cases such as this the Department did not protest because a proportion of any royalties would be paid into a special fund'. 

 Mr Davey went on to say: 
The reply to your question staled categorically: There will be no encroachment on any Aboriginal reserves. Royalties when collected from the company will be paid into the State consolidated revenue fund'. 
On the basis of this reply I circulated a statement that the WA Government was not arranging for Amax to pay royalties into a special fund from its mining operations at Cape Bougainville. 
The Minister took the trouble to have the 'West' publish a letter, 25th December 1969, rebutting the circular. He claimed: 'The fact is that it was an integral part of the arrangement governing this excision that the total amount of the normal royalties payable by Amax in respect of minerals mined in the excised area are to be paid into a special trust fund to be used for Aboriginal advancement.' 
As far us I am able to ascertain there is still no set royally declared for mining on Aboriginal reserves in WA and no cash in this 'special fund' allegedly established in 1966. 

 Mr Davey then wrote the following letter to the West Australian', which was published:  lt is pleasing to be assured by Native Welfare Minister Lewis that 'it was an integral part of the arrangement governing this excision (from Admiralty Gulf Aboriginal Reserve) that the total amount of the normal royalties payable by Amax Bauxite Corporation in respect of mineral mined in ihe excised area is to be paid into a special fund for Aboriginal advancement'. 

 Mr Davey then goes on the include in his letter a quotation of the reply which I received from  Senator Scott  on 23rd September 1969. He then asks: 
Why no mention of the 'special trust fund'? Amax's application for 27 square miles of the reserve was recommended by the Wyndham Mine Warden's Court on August 12 and was unopposed by the Native Welfare Department because  'a  proportion of any royalties would be paid into  a  special fund'. 
He asked finally: 
Has the Senate been incompletely informed? 
In all sincerity I ask whether the Minister will get to the basis of this information which has now been supplied and find out what happened in the first place. Was the then Minister misinformed, did the Western Australian Government decide to give him false information, or did it even get lost somewhere along the line? In my view when so much money is involved, when tribal land is involved, and a very large proportion of Western Australia is involved the information ought to be accurate. This could quite easily happen in any other Stale. I seek this information. 1 am afraid that if it cannot be found out in a reasonable time this will have to be carried very much further because, if false information has been given at either a Federal or State level this verges on a scandal. 
 Mr President, Mr Leader,  Leader of the Opposition,  Senator DrakeBrockman, Senator Byrne  and other honourable senators who have spoken to say farewell to the 12 retiring senators who are departing from this chamber as from 30th June this year: I should like personally to thank you all for the very nice words you have spoken. One thing which is sure when one comes into the Senate is that there will be an end to it at some time. That end has come on this occasion for 12 of us. Many of us have been able to survive in this place for periods of up to 22 years. In the time that I have been here it has been very heartening to see the growth that has taken place in Australia and the improvement of conditions for all people who live in this country. I wish those who take our places in this chamber every success. I believe that a foundation has been laid for the Senate which will enable it, despite the feelings, of some people a few years ago that it would be better out of existence altogether, to continue for a very long time. I think it will continue for as long as » we have a democratic Parliament in Australia, and I hope that will be forever. 
I thank the Leader : of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  for his reference to the hard times that I had as Minister for Customs and Exercise. When one comes into this place one does what one believes is right. I have always done that, although there was one occasion' when some people thought that what I did might not have been right. At that time. I was rather hurt when someone in this place accused me of certain things. When I- spoke to that person later and explained the situation to him he was. very sorry for what he had said. I thank you for what you have said,  Senator Murphy. 
You  Mr President,  have spoken about the good fellowship between the parties ^ which occupy places in this chamber. I agree that we should endeavour to achieve that good fellowship because it is very important. You,  Sir, have  been very kind to us during your term as  President  of the Senate. You have looked after all of us. There have been occasions in this place when things have been said by me and others which probably would have been better left unsaid, but while we are in it we have to be prepared to take it as well as to give it. I have always endeavoured to do this and I have always admired you,  Mr President,  for the. way that you have controlled proceedings. 
I go out of this chamber knowing that the Senate has improved tremendously since we became senators 20 years ago. I look forward to coming back here with my good wife on future occasions to renew friendships. I look forward to those occasions when I can meet you and discuss with you the problems of this nation, as we have discussed" them on so many occasions while I have been a senator in this place. 
