In the life of each Parliament since I have been here I have listened quite attentively to the many insulting remarks levelled at members of the Opposition by way of innuendo by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  I have a little story about the Minister. I think it is always worth while repeating. It is about his collaboration with the Communists. Just let me read a few little excerpts from speeches. In substantiation of the claim that he is insulting, I shall cite an editorial which appeared in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph', which is selfstyled as a paper you can trust and which is recognised by all as the mouthpiece of the Liberal Party. I quote the following passage: 

 Mr Wentworth, well meaning but unbalanced, is a persistent thora who can embarrass the Government as much with his uncontrolled vehemence against the Labor Party as with his criticism of his own Party. 
It is interesting to note that not once did the Minister for Social Services criticise his former colleague and friend, ex-Senator McCallum, a Liberal Party senator from 1955 to 1956, whose daughter,  Mrs Curthoys,  was and still is one of the leading Communists in New South Wales, having contested the Senate elections as a candidate on two occasions for that Party. Conversely, one could well imagine the tirade of smearing abuse by the Minister if she bad been a Labor parliamentarian's daughter involved in similar circumstances. 
Let us examine some of the exploits and statements of the Minister for Social Services. During the course of an interview on the 'Meet the Press' programme conducted by TCN Channel 9 in Sydney, in answer to a panel member, he stated that there were one or two Communists employed by the Department of External Affairs. The Department viewed this charge so seriously that it sought and was supplied with a recorded tape of the interview. This unwarranted statement was made without one iota of evidence in substantiation. The implication was that there was a spy or spies in the Department supplying a foreign power with information. This means, of course, that the officers of the Department would appear in the eyes of the public to be under a cloud of suspicion. 
The honourable member for Mackellar was at one time consultant to  Sir Bertram  Stevens, an ex-Premier of New South Wales, better known as the 'Budget Faker'. Stevens was responsible for nearly sending New South Wales bankrupt. In consequence, he was sacked as Premier by his own party. In 1938 at a United Australia Party congress held in Sydney the  Hon.  L. O. Martin, Minister for Justice in the United Australia Party Government, called the police to silence or eject the honourable member for Mackellar. Judge Ambsberg, the Royal Commissioner in the Doyle case, rebuked the honourable member for having approached witnesses during an adjournment of the court, and the judge informed him that he had acted in bad taste. In 1960 the honourable member for Mackellar was an alternate delegate to the United Nations. The leader of the Australian delegation banned him from appearing on television in the United States. The Sydney 'Daily Mirror', commenting on the honourable member's visit to the United Nations, said: 
He has made as much impact on the United Nations as would a prisoner trying to get out of Alcatraz with a nail file. 
Now I come to the daddy of them all. Years ago, before he was elected to this Parliament, the honourable member for Mackellar operated a newspaper in the Wollongong-Port Kembla area called the Illawarra Star'. During the famous pig iron dispute he was very critical of the trade unions. As a result the unions placed a black ban on his newspaper. As honourable members would be aware, at that time in an industrial and strong union area such as Wollongong-Port Kembla a black ban carried on for any length of time could spell ruin to a newspaper. What did the Minister do? He made a donation of £10 to the strike fund as a softening up process. In addition, he donated a trophy, which he called the Illawarra Cup, for presentation to the best marching unit in the May Day procession. The judges awarded the prize to the Port Kembla branch of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia, controlled by the Communist Party, and the Minister had the honour of presenting the cup to  Mr Roach. 
In conclusion, I would like to say that it is well known that the Minister looks under his bed every night to see if a Communist is there, and by a strange coincidence that is where  Mr Roach  kept the Illawarra Cup. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar- Minister for Social Services) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Opposition members--Oh 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Prospect. I remind the House that this is a maiden speech. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Immigration. Is it a fact that the Government has initiated a campaign to step up the migrant intake from Yugoslavia, which is a Communist country? 
Is the amendment seconded? 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
What is the total number of migrants resident in Australia who are eligible for naturalisation but as yet have not applied tor it? 
What is the number of each nationality included in the total figure? 
Like married life. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I submit that these are still yesterday's proceedings and that the introduction of new business after 1 1 o'clock last night is completely out of order. 
today becauses you are trading with China. In addition to that, as honourable members would be aware, the Labour Party has always advocated trading with any country irrespective of its politics because although one trades with a country one does not necessarily accept its ideology. But the fact is that this Government would have been bankrupt in overseas credit if it had not been for trade with Red China. The fact is that this Government - the anticommunist government - has been selling wheat to Red China on a time payment basis on terms better than those available to our sister nation in the Commonwealth of Nations, India. Yet. this is supposed to be an anti-Communist Government. 
Let us look at a few other matters. The Prime Minister spoke of the Communist being on the floor, not on the platform, and speaking from the floor, lt is the same thing. The Prime Minister had a colleague in the Senate,  Senator McCallum.  I have mentioned this matter before to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth!. One of the Prime Minister's good friends in the Senate was Senator McCallum. He knew that Senator McCallum's daughte was a Communist Party candidate. But that did not make any difference to his friendship with Senator McCallum. Just imagine what would have been said in this House if it had been the daughter of a Labor senator who was a Communist Party candidate. 1 will leave that to the imagination of all fair thinking people. 
On the subject of guilt by association, I point out that when the late Harold Holt was Minister for Labour and National Service he had to meet on many occasions with the Secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation at that time,  Mr Jim  Healy. As honourable members know, the late  Mr Healy  was a leading Australian Communist.  Mr Harold  Holt used to take him to dinner and to supper. If I had taken  Mr Healy  to supper, I would have been described as a Communist. When  Sir Hubert  Opperman was Minister for Shipping and Transport he used to take  Mr Elliot  Elliott for a meal. Is  Sir Hubert  Opperman a Communist because he associated with that man over a cup of tea or lunch? Of course he is not. Yet, this Government says that it is democratic. 
I remember when, during the 1966 elections, the Liberal Party, authorised by its Federal Secretary,  Mr Carrick,  issued a scurrilous leaflet to the effect that the people of Australia should be afraid of China. That leaflet showed red arrows pointing down from China to Australia to illustrate the aggression that we were to expect. At the same time Australia was trading with China. I asked the then Minister for External Affairs,  Mr Hasluck  as he then was, whether China was an enemy of Australia. If it was, I said that he must introduce legislation relating to trading with the enemy. The Prime Minister knows that that must be done. The fact is that the then Minister for External Affairs said that China was not an enemy of Australia. But the propaganda of the Liberal Party said that it was. The Liberal Party did this to get votes. This is the way the Liberal Party works its dirty, scurrilous propaganda at election time. It puts a fear complex into the people. If it was not for the Communist bogey, the Liberal Party would not get a vote. That is the position. It has built up this fear complex in the people. That is what the Australian Labor Party has been putting up with all these years. 
Not one member of the Australian Country Party has ever complained about trade with Communist China. I will say one thing for the Deputy Prime Minister, the 
Minister for Tarde and Industry  (Mr McEwen).  Not once since I have been a member of this House has he ever used the Communist bogey. He has stated publicly from the election platform that he does not believe that there are any Communists in the Australian Labor Party. At least he is fair. He does not use the Communist bogey. 
The Prime Minister has used it. The Prime Minister said tonight that a Communist speaking from the floor of a meeting was the same as a Communist speaking from a platform at a meeting. What a ridiculous assumption to make. Of course that is not true. Why, I was a trade union official myself before coming to this place and I know that association with Communists in this field is inescapable. In the trade union movement, a man cannot dissociate himself from Communist officials when it comes to speaking on various occasions. 
I mention  Mr Shortell,  an extreme right winger, who was appointed by this Government as a member of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. I have seen  Mr Shortell  several times on the same platform as Communists. This was because he was  President  of the Trades and Labour Council. But does that make  Mr Shortell  a Communist? Of course it does not. The policy of this Government is to use these snide methods to try to create a fear complex in the minds of the people of Australia. What shoddy methods it uses. I know that the Minister for Social Services intends to follow me in this debate. If he does, let him explain this situation. I remind him that I spoke about this matter a few weeks ago. When I referred to the Illawarra Cup he said, and it is recorded in Hansard, that he did not know what the Communist Party was up to. Does anybody believe that for one minute? That is the only answer he had to offer to what I had said, and it is recorded in Hansard. 
I desire to ask the Prime Minister who is Acting Treasurer a question. The right honourable gentleman would probably be aware that a well known American entertainer recently was paid $200,000 plus expenses for a 2 weeks contract in Australia. How much, if any, taxation on these amounts will this entertainer be obliged to pay to Commonwealth revenue? 
He still is. Let us examine the relationship of the Labor Party with the trade union movement. It is well known that but for the Labor Party the Communist Party would control almost every trade union in Australia. This cannot be denied. I wonder how many honourable members opposite have had trade union experience. Perhaps one member of the Country Party has had such experience but I venture to suggest that few others on the Government side have had any such experience. In the 21 years since the Liberal-Country Party coalition came to power we have heard a lot about the Communist Party but not one case of Communist Party subversion has been brought to trial in those 21 years. If there has been any Communist subversion in that time obviously the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has fallen down on the job. Not one person has been charged with subversive activities since this Government was elected in 1949 but  Dr Evatt,  who was Attorney-General in the Chifley Government, prosecuted the Communists and. raided their headquarters in George Street, Sydney. 
If the honourable member knows of a case of Communist subversion let him submit it to the proper authorities so that charges may be laid. I. have here a photostat copy of a propaganda sheet issued by the Liberal Party for the 1966 elections. For some reason China was not coloured red on that propaganda sheet. The caption reads: 'Just where do you draw the line against Communist aggression?' The implication is that China is our enemy. If this is so Government supporters are guilty of treason. They cannot have it both ways for you cannot trade with an enemy. As soon as the Second World War broke out the Menzies Government had to introduce legislation to prohibit trading with the enemy. If China is an enemy of Australia the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  is guilty of treason because he and his colleagues in the Country Party are trading with China. Some of the wheat has been diverted to feed the army of North Vietnam. Honourable members opposite know this. Is the sale of that wheat to China an act of treason? Government supporters cannot have it both ways. They cannot condemn China on the one hand and on the other hand accept China's gold. If Government supporters want to make allegations about the Labor Party and Communists they must be fair dinkum. 
The honourable member for Curtin said that the Communist Party's policy is similar to that of the Labor Party. It is also similar to that of the Government. Otherwise, honourable members in subsidy corner over here, or 'Gunn's Gully' as we call it, would not have any subsidies. They would not have any subsidies if it were not for policies similar to those of the Labor Party and the Communist Party. But that is inescapable. Of course some parts of our policy must be like that of the Communist Party just as is the Government's policy in regard to social services, repatriation and the like. That is a ridiculous argument to put up. I suggest that before honourable members opposite refer to the trade union movement they should have a little bit of experience within the movement so that they will know what they are talking about. 
Before honourable members opposite utter innuendos against people with the malicious gutter type tactics that were used against  Mr Chifley  they should put specific cases, name the people and name the instances to which they refer. Otherwise, of course, they are just using the old Com. bogy stuff that we have been listening to ever since I came into this Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.42 a.m. (Thursday). 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, Grievance Day is one of those rare occasions when back bench members are allowed to say anything in this House. But the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  took up 10 minutes of the time allotted to the Grievance debate to read a statment that could have been made at any time of the day. 1 enter an emphatic protest against these procedures which take up the time set aside for the Grievance debate. I invited the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  to come into the House but he informed me he had a meeting of Cabinet this morning. I want to raise a matter that concerns the Department of Social Services. As honourable members are aware the rules relating to the period for questions without notice each sitting day do not permit the asking of any questions relating to Government policy. As a consequence it is my intention to refer to a matter within the jurisdiction of the Minister for Social Services that may well have been put as a question. 
I refer to the supplementary allowance of $2 per week and its payment to retarded invalid pensioners gainfully employed in sheltered workshops. I submit to the Minister that either these pensioners should be exempted from the means test applicable to the supplementary allowance or the means test should be liberalised in certain cases. To illustrate my point I refer to a case on which I made representations to the Department of Social Services. The young lady in question is unfortunately retarded and is in receipt of an invalid pension. She is employed by the Eastern Suburbs and Central Aid Retarded Persons industries at a sheltered workshop in Redfern which was officially opened by the Minister last year. I had the honour to attend the function. This person is employed and receives $2.50 per week. Because she receives this sum she is entitled only to 50c a week supplementary allowance due to the means test which provides a maximum of $3 a week, including income and allowance. This means that she is actually working for 50c a week because if she was not employed by ESCARP she would receive the full allowance of $2. If the means test was liberalised or waived in respect of retarded persons the cost to Consolidated Revenue would be microscopic. The ESCARP organisation is doing a magnificent job in providing the necessary facilities for the employment of these persons. The organisation is largely dependent on donations and money raised from other sources to carry on its good work and I wish it every success in the future. 
I wish to speak for only about 2 minutes more because some of my colleagues also want to speak during this limited period. I draw the attention of the House to one aspect of the . last Federal election. The writs were issued on Monday, 29th September, and the election was held on 25th October, just 23 days later. The officers of the Electoral Office in New South Wales are in a very difficult position and I am not blaming them for what happened. As honourable members are aware the issue of writs means the closing of rolls for the supplementary rolls. As a consequence I received my rolls less than 2 days before the day of the election. In the electorate of Phillip, a very important electorate which was won by the  Speaker,  only on the donkey vote, we received the supplementary rolls only on the day before the election. This means we could not help the many people who came to both the Liberal and Labor Party campaign rooms to see if they were on the roll. It this right? Should supplementary rolls be issued only the day before the election? It seems to me to be stupid. 
I got in touch with the Chief Electoral Officer in New South Wales on 3 occasions about this matter and he informed me that it was not the fault of his officers and that they were being held up by the printer. He said there was a priority to the country areas and the supplementary rolls to those areas were being printed and sent out first. I do not see why country electorates should get priority over the city electorates in this matter. They are already getting everything in their favour now, especially in regard to numbers of electors on the roll. Honourable members in country electorates want everything. I believe writs should be issued at least 6 weeks before an election to give the printers a chance to get the supplementary electoral rolls out so that those people working not only in the Labor Party campaign rooms but also in Liberal and Country Party campaign rooms can help any persons who come in to ascertain whether they are on the roll. 
I ask the Minister for Immigration a question which relates to an answer that I received recently to a question placed on the notice paper. What is the total number of migrants resident in Australia who are eligible for naturalisation but who as yet have not applied for naturalisation? Why do eligible migrants not apply for citizenship? What steps are being taken to encourage aliens to seek Australian citizenship? Finally, what disabilities does an alien face in Australia and what benefits does naturalisation confer? 
My question to the Prime Minister is apropros the question asked earlier by the honourable member for Robertson. Would the right honourable gentleman agree that politicians could make a worthwhile contribution to the elimination of air pollution by limiting their speeches to 5 minutes? 
Order! The House will come to order. 
The latest example of this attitude- 
This is the attitude of pork barrel politics. That is not my phrase but it was the phrase used by the writer, who said: 
The latest example of this attitude is the decision of the Government to gram $12.8m to Queensland for irrigation works in the Bundaberg region. The Government ignored an unfavourable report on the Queensland Government's submission for funds by an interdepartmental committee of experts from National Development, the Treasury, Primary Industry and the Prime Minister's Department. Other blatant examples have been the Commonwealth's grant to the Emerald Dam and the Ord. 
Then the criticism goes on to say: 
As the Bundaberg quota shortfalls - 
This is referring to sugar production. The article says: 
As the Bundaberg quota shortfalls are easily offset by the ability of other regions to exceed their peaks the net benefit of the first stage for the nation is virtually nil. If there is a need for assisting an established area like Bundaberg then the case may rest on social service provisions. 
What an extraordinary criticism in 1970 of a national development. Here you have an export industry; here you have an industry which has been encouraged by the national Government and by the State Government as the subject of considerable investment, by the farmers themselves and by the local people at a secondary level. Then when there is an obvious need to make it effective and efficient, and you do this by irrigation, surely no-one will cavil or quarrel with efficiency and effectiveness in primary production. When this comes about someone says: 'You should not do it. The benefit1' are virtually nil. In any case we do not wan! the production. Social services are the answer'. What a shocking approach to national development that is. Where money is needed to support a group of people who have followed a national and State lead and contributed mightily to export income for a long time, the answer to a request for supporting expenditure is: 'No, we should not do this. We should give them social services'. What an absurd approach! They condemn people to inefficiency until they strangle themselves. 
What is the purpose of this? lt is for the sake of the small sum of money which is in fact provided for in this piece of legislation. lt is a relatively small sum of money, if there is a condemnation to be made of the growing of sugar in Queensland, or the growing of any crop in any part of the nation, the condemnation lies in the lack of guidelines which should have originated in this Parliament or in the State concerned. But the people in that area have responded, as have the people in my area, to the challenges that have been posed to them by the Government that has presided over the destiny of this nation for 20 years. These people have responded very well. In fact, as was indicated in the figures which I gave earlier, they have carried the burden o! earning export income to buy the raw material that keeps the factories going and in fact makes the whole of the economy tick. This is the economics of it. If it isaid that the primary sphere is expendable. I would again invite any of the honourable members who feel that they have the dat.i to explain in a little detail how this gap which would be left if we lost our rural earnings is to be filled. The Prime Minister assessed it at 50%, and we do not always necessarily agree with him. I would like the information to be precise. If honourable members opposite say: 'We will accept what our Prime Minister has said', then surely to goodness let us approve of any measure which comes before us which is designed to improve efficiency or effectiveness of what is relied upon. 
Of course, there is a thought that we have been concerned about. The honourable member for Dawson, who has led the Opposition on this occasion, summed it up particularly well when he moved the amendment which says that we should add the following words:  the technical evaluation and any cost benefit analyses carried out by the Commonwealth for the project near Bundaberg be made available to this House. 
I think this is a most desirable thing to do. 
Of course, the decision will not be made on the economic reports alone. Those reports are simply the raw material of decisions. Decisions must be made in courage by the Ministers and the Government concerned, because they are arbitrary decisions at best. There is no magic formula that can be applied. In fact, we have to get the best raw materials of decision. We examine them and say: 'This is our decision based on an analysis of these reports'. This is the common sense approach and this is the approach which is in fact embodied in the motion here. It is a very mild motion. I am taking it a little further because I think in projects such as this we should have examined all the data. There is no need to run away from it. There is no need to suppress it. If the Minister has the courage of his convictions he should say: I have had these 4 reports. I will publish them. I have made the decision.' I will tell the House right now that the reports will not often agree. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I ask that all interjections cease and that the honourable member for Riverina stop provoking the Country Party. 
Parliament. If the honourable members in the corner are unable to understand the figures which I have quoted then I commend them to Hansard. I say very sincerely that from now until the year 2000  -  I will not undertake projections beyond that date - our rural exports will be half our national export income. To make them viable - or, to use a popular term, economic - means that we have to base them on irrigation as far as possible. Water will be the limiting factor in national development. To use it properly national planning is needed. If we proceed further from this point without national water planning, without national legislation, and if the cost benefit of a vote is to be the only guiding factor, then we are not going to make the progress as a nation that we should make if we are to hand it on in a reasonable condition to the children who will follow us. 
The implications of this measure go far beyond the people of Bundaberg. I hope that the debate tonight and the amendment, modest as it is, will mark a turning point in our approach to water conservation. We do not have to apologise for it. We have to deal with it in a rational and integrated way. We are not doing that at the moment. Our failure to do so does a grave disservice to the nation, to projects such as this and to industries for which we have a responsibility at this time. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

 Mr TURNER (Bradfield) (9.52]- This debate seems to revolve around the exclamation: 'Water be dammed!' I seem to have been mentioned in the course of the debate on several occasions and that is the reason and the only reason why I am speaking tonight. T find myself once again in the role of the devil's advocate. The devil has no friends here except me. It is right that in a debate of this kind the other side should at least be put. I find myself once again in that lonely role. May I say at once that I am not unaccustomed to loneliness. I was the only member of this House on either side who voted against the Ord River scheme. I believe that my judgment has been amply and absolutely justified, as anybody who has studied the economics of that scheme and its history will know. On the other hand, my colleagues on this side of the House are all on the side of the angels and, like angels, they have taken to their wings and most of them have departed. Nevertheless the Country Party is here and I shall have a word or two to say about its attitude in due course. 
The former Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  made some sneering references to me. It is this that has brought me to my feet tonight. He said that the only two people who took the view that I am taking tonight are  Dr B.  R. Davidson and myself. T find myself in exceedingly good company, despite the futile and unsuccessful attempt by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  to refute  Dr Davidson.  I find myself in the best of company with him. The honourable member for Farrer thought fit to sneer at niland talk about my support for spending money on the Eastern Suburbs Railway and the Sydney Opera House. Let us look at this for a moment. I suggest that the Opera House will give as much pleasure and more to far more people than a water supply at Bundaberg, if we are thinking about the quality of life. My friends of the Country Party laugh. Their feet are firmly in the dung of the farmyard; they are really right on the ground. If one is looking at the quality of life and the pleasure that can be given to many people then the Opera House may well stand with a water supply in Bundaberg. But let that pass. 
My friend the honourable member for Farrer referred to the Eastern Suburbs Railway. Let me draw a distinction between that particular public work and, say, the Bundaberg irrigation scheme or any irrigation scheme in Australia. The Eastern Suburbs Railway will have many passengers who will pay fares. It will be an economic proposition. It will pay interest on the capital expenditure. Let us be quite clear that this is a paying capital work. I ask: What happens in regard to irrigation schemes? We all know that the head works of irrigation schemes are provided free of charge to the farmers who benefit from them. They are provided free of charge by hundreds of thousands of taxpayers in Australia. That is a fairly clear distinction between the Eastern Suburbs Railway, an economic proposition, and the Bundaberg or other schemes where the taxpayers provide the head works free of charge for the farmers who benefit from them. 
J will not go beyond that except to say that the honourable member for Farrer has convinced me from his speech tonight and his sneers at me that his resignation from the portfolio of National Development was an excellent thing for this country. The Bundaberg scheme which concerns us tonight was promised in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton). 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry: Is the total cotton crop in Australia likely to show a marked increase in the next few years? If so, will he take action to ensure that there is no surplus of cotton in Australia by providing adequate protection to manufacturers in Australia against cotton goods from low wage countries? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. The honourable gentleman is aware that there are over 200,000 migrants eligible for naturalisation who have not applied for same. Some of these people are willing to become naturalised but will not take an oath of allegiance to  Her  Majesty the Queen simply because they do not believe in monarchies. Would the honourable gentleman give permission to allow such migrants to take an oath of allegiance to the Commonwealth of Australia as a voluntary alternative? 
Apparently every honourable member is speaking to this proposal in regard to how it affects him individually. Speaking as the member for Sydney, I indicate that I intend to oppose any alteration in the sitting hours. I do so because of the fact that in my electorate of Sydney I interview my constituents on Mondays - as I did for 15 years in my former electorate of Watson - with an occasional break when I have to come to Canberra, say once in 3 months or 4 months, to attend a meeting of the Joint Committee on Public Accounts. According to the latest redistribution figures, my electorate has the largest population of any New South Wales electorate. Let us not forget that politicians have a responsibility not only to the Party which they represent but also to their constituents. For the purpose of interviewing people in my electorate, I travel to several points. This is for the simple reason that quite a number of age and invalid pensioners come to see me. They cannot afford the money to travel into the city to my office there. 
Do not talk rot, Fred. You are asking the impossible. I have advertised already the points at which I will be conducting interviews in my electorate. People do come to see me on Mondays at those points. Naturally, every honourable member is speaking from his own point of view as to the way in which this proposal will affect him. In addition to these interviews, I have 28 Labor branches in my electorate. This, I believe, is the largest number of branches in any electorate in Australia. They need quite a lot of attention. 1 hear a few interjections from members representing electorates in States other than New South Wales, lt is strange to hear those interjections coming from members from States where those members are appointed by their Executives. I would remind those honourable members, now that they have brought this matter up, that it is only in New South Wales that a democratic method of electing members is followed. 
Let me say also that 1 am a member of an organisation in my electorate called South Sydney Community Aid. It meets on a Monday night. I attend it as often as I can. This organisation does a very good job for migrants. My friend, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  addressed it last Monday. He knows that what I am saying is true. 
 lt does an excellent job. Also, I am president of the Redfern Lonely Hearts Club which meets once a week on Monday nights. Naturally. I would prefer to have my Mondays off so that, in the day time, I may interview my constituents, particularly pensioners, and so that at night I may attend my Labor branches and the other organisations which I have mentioned. 
I ask the Minister for Immigration a question. Has there been an increase in the 1970-71 appropriation for the repatriation of migrants? What is the extent of that increase over the appropriation for the previous year? What is the number of persons repatriated in 1969-70? What are the reasons for these repatriations? Does the Minister consider those reasons to be justified? Has the honourable gentleman made a decision in the case of  Mr  SemoTordjman  who has sought repatriation? If a decision has been made, what is the decision and what are the  reasons  for that decision? If a decision has not been made, when will it be made? 
It is obvious from listening to the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  that he has a general tendency to link everything which is wrong in the community with the Australian Labor Party. That was the meaning behind his remarks. The fact is, of course, that there are many in the community today who believe in the freedom of assembly irrespective of the people who assemble. We do not say that people are Communists because they assemble with Communists. To illustrate my point, 1 shall quote from an article in the 'Canberra Times' of 27th August last year concerning an invitation by the Woden Valley branch of the Liberal Party of Ausatralia to a Russian diplomat to address it. Before doing so, I should like to make it perfectly clear that I am not saying that the members of the Woden Valley Branch of the Liberal Party are Communists. The article states: 
We cannot expect that it would be possible to do anything in a few days or months. H will take time to consider and discuss', the third secretary of the Soviet Embassy in Canberra,  Mr Alexander  Ekimenko, said last night. 

 Mr Ekimenko was addressing a Liberal Party meeting on Australia's attitude to Soviet proposals for collective security arrangements in Asia. 
Speaking at a meeting of the Woden Valley branch of the party, he said: 'Let us live in peace and try to do what we can do to present the nest war and live, if not as good friends, as good neighbours'. 

 Mr Ekimenko arrived from Moscow 3 days ago to take up his new post in Canberra. He has had connections wilh the Australian Embassy in Moscow. . . . 
While speaking  Mr Ekimenko  wore a badge carrying the words 'Liberal Party - Maher for MHR' . . . 
I suggest that it is most unethical for any foreign diplomat to support a political party in Australia; but that was done without any inhibitions whatsoever. As I said before, I do not suggest that the members of the Woden Valley branch of the Liberal Party are Communists or that the  President  of the Branch, who invited  Mr Ekimenko  to address the meeting, is a Communist. But very many honourable members on the other side of the House say that if we on this side associate with Communists we must be Communists. Imagine what would happen if a Communist addressed a Labor Party branch. We would have all the Red baiters on the other side of the House up on their feet talking about it for weeks. 
The malicious methods that were used to character assassinate  Mr Ben  Chifley are well known, although possibly not to many of the younger members of this Parliament. This revered member of the Australian Labor Party was actually accused, by the use of these innuendoes, of being a fellow traveller. I would say that many of those who accused him by these methods at that time were not fit to clean his shoes. He was one of the greatest men Australia ever produced. With the immortal John Curtin, he was responsible for guiding Australia through World- War II. He had to come into office when our defences were absolutely nothing. We had Wirraway aeroplanes to fight the modern Japanese Zeros. We were short of artillery and short of rifles. 
Wooden rifles were issued to people on sentry duty at camps. Let me tell the House of one incident. A fellow, who was on duty in the middle of the night with his wooden rifle, heard footsteps approaching. He said: Stop! Who goes there?' He received no answer. He repeated: 'Stop! Who goes there?' Again he received no answer. So he said: 'Stop, or I will fill you with white ants'. That incident happened at one of the camps. 
It is said that subversion is active in Australia today. If that is so, the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  should sack the Aus tralian Security Intelligence Organisation and every man in it. Not one person has been prosecuted for subversion since  Dr Evatt  launched a prosecution for subversion when he was the Attorney-General in the Chifley Government. Yet we hear this cry of subversion, particularly by the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay).  What is ASIO doing about it? What are its officers being paid for if there is subversion in Australia? The honourable member insults the Labor Party and after doing so sits back in his seat with a smile on his face like a deep sea mullet suffering from indigestion. 
It is quite obvious that the LiberalCountry Party coalition is endeavouring to fight the Senate election and possibly a House of Representatives election by kicking the Communist can again. The Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  was returned in 1961 on Communist Party preferences. He had to wait a fortnight for the result. The election made headlines in the newspapers every day. The headlines said: 'Who is going to win?' or 'Labor could win'. The suspense was kill in'. When he was returned to this House the Menzies Government was returned to office and  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, said: 'Killen, you are magnificent'. Of course, the fact is that this gentleman was elected on Communist Party preferences and his return meant the return of the Liberal-Country Party Government. Imagine what would have been said if the reverse had been the position. What would the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  have said about the Australian Labor Party if its candidate had been returned on Communist Party preferences? It is quite obvious, as I have mentioned here before and as 1 will mention here again- 
Of course I do. The last time you shouted me supper I said that I would return the compliment. The fact is that a certain gentleman was once a Liberal Party senator. I have repeated this before and I will keep on repeating it. I think he retired about 1958. He was a great friend of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  This former  Senator had  a daughter who was a Communist Party candidate on 2 occasions. She was one of the leading Communist Party candidates in New South Wales. I do not complain about this because members of families are entitled to differ in their politics. But could you imagine what the Liberal Party would have said about a Labor Party  Senator whose  daughter stood as a candidate on behalf of the Communist Party. Can you imagine what would have been said by the Minister for Social Services, by the Minister for the Navy, by the honourable members for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  or La Trobe  (Mr Jess)?  Why, they would have kept talking about it all their lives. We of the Labor Party did not talk about it although we knew of the case. The fact is that we say that family members are entitled to hold their own political views. The time has come when the people of Australia must wake up to the fact that if Communism is to be destroyed then the introduction of Fascism and McCarthyism is not the means of doing it. 
Yes.  Mr Askin  said he would run over someone. Members of the Liberal Party opposite often say that there is a lot of intrigue and dissension in the Opposition Party. 1 want to refer to an excerpt from a newspaper. It refers to a statement by the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Dudley Erwin)  about the Prime Minister's  (Mr Gorton's)  mushroom club. He said that its members were kept in the dark and fed on bull. The word bull' is an abbreviation for an unparliamentary word which I certainly will not use. This statement said that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  was a member, the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  was a member, the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  was a member, and the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  was a member and that they called the Prime Minister the chief spore. This caused a lot of dissension within the Liberal Party. Tt is strange now that every member of the mushroom club has been appointed to the cabinet. This proves that many a good deal is clinched over a good meal. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I agree with the points raised by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess),  the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  and the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  in regard to the restriction on many members in this place who wish to speak. I was one of those who wanted to take part in the Budget debate but because of the large number of members now on the Opposition side, compared with the number in past years, I could not get in. I want to take part in the debate on the Estimates. I would be willing to support the recommendations that have been brought down by the Committee except those relating to the debate on the Estimates. I do not believe that the time allotted to members should be reduced by 5 minutes. I understand that the proposal will not apply to the Estimates for this year but that it will apply to the Estimates for next year. In that case I should like an assurance that the time will not be reduced from15 minutes to 10 minutes. If the amendment now before the House is carried - I shall support it - I should like this matter to be reviewed before we deal with the Estimates in 1971. 
I do not think that anyone, including my own Whip, could complain about what I have tried to do to assist my colleagues. 1 have often reduced the time that I have been allotted to allow someone else to speak, even on Grievance Day, but it has not always happened in my case that some of my colleagues have stood down or reduced their time to allow me to get into a debate. I want to make it clear that any honourable member who thinks that he will be able to speak twice on the Estimates is only dreaming because he will be allowed to speak only once. It is of no use pulling your own leg and believing that you will be allowed to speak twice. 
Sometimes, but not very often having regard to the state of the parties at present. I emphasise the point that a lot of members who could not take part in the Budget debate may want to speak in the debate on the Estimates. In my opinion they would be entitled to speak for 15 minutes. I again ask for an assurance that if the Committee's recommendations are accepted in relation to the Estimates debate - I think that they should be - this matter will be reviewed before the Estimates for1971 are presented to us. 
I ask the Attorney-General: How many persons have been prosecuted for subversive activities considered to be detrimental to the security and national interest since the Liberal-Country Party Government assumed office in 1949? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Is the development and maintenance of manufacturing industries of vital importance to the Australian economy. 
Have requests been received from organisations and individuals representing manufacturing industries for the establishment of a separate and senior ministry of manufacturing industries. 
If so, why has the Government not acceded to the requests. 
The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  in quoting remarks made by  Mr Chifley  completely neglected to say that the last Budget brought down by  Mr Chifley's  Government in 1949 provided for a total expenditure of about $ 1,000m. Any comparison with a Budget which provides for an expenditure of $8,000m - a sevenfold increase - is absolutely ridiculous. The population and the number of taxpayers also have doubled since those days, lt seems quite obvious that every honourable member who speaks on the Government side has been instructed by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  to refer to what  Mr Chifley  did in 1949 as a means of diverting attention from the real issue at stake today - the paltry increase of 50c for pensioners. Only about 6 members of the Opposition were here in the days of  Mr Chifley.  How ridiculous it is to compare what was done 20 years ago with what is being done today. I am not a bit concerned with what was paid to pensioners by the Bruce-Page Government, nor am I concerned with what was paid by the Scullin Government, the Lyons Government, the Curtin Government or the Chifley Government. Such comparisons are specious and do not assist in securing justice for the pensioners. 
I am interested in obtaining answers to 2 questions: Firstly, is the pension sufficient for a person to live in dignity and in keeping wilh our standards of living? Secondly, can the economy afford a better pension? The answer to the first question is a definite no. I believe an overwhelming majority of the populace would agree with that. The answer to the second question is a definite yes. I do not believe in a policy of guns before butter. Let me cite the 2-word comment of the Sydney 'Sun' on the pension: 
It's disgusting. 
The Sydney 'Daily Mirror' had this to say when referring to the Budget: 
It makes few richer and the pensioners poorer. 
These are not Labor journals; they are pro-Government journals. Now I turn to some of the statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  that self professed emancipist of the underprivileged section of the community. A few days prior  to the  ballot for the Liberal Party leadership following the tragic death of Harold  Holt  the Prime Minister said: 
If I was able to frame the nation's future policies, I would aim at  a  society which would remove burdens and fear from the shoulders of those in dire need. 
Later, on 12th March 1968 the GovernorGeneral delivered a speech outlining Government policy. During that speech he stated: 
My Government will review the field of social welfare, with the object of assisting those in dire need while at the same time not discouraging thrift, self help and self reliance. To this end my Government will set up  a  standing Cabinet committee, including the Ministers for Health, Social Services, Repatriation and Housing, and that Committee will direct its attention to coordinating the approaches and proposals qf the various departments concerned with social welfare. 
The Prime Minister has failed miserably in bringing to fruition his glittering, grandiose but pretentious thoughts. So far as the standing Cabinet committee is concerned, it simply has lain down on the job. I suggest that every Government supporter, including yourself,  Mr Speaker,  is embarrassed and ashamed because of the paltry increase of 50c a week granted under this legislation. If this is not true then T challenge any Government supporter to say that the 50c is adequate. 
Let us contrast this Government's inglorious neglect of the pensioners with Labor policy as enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  prior to the 1969 House of Representatives general election. This policy provides for the pension rate to be 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, which means in effect that the pension is automatically adjusted in the Budget brought down each year. While wage and salary earners have access to machinery to obtain wage justice, the pensioner is at the complete mercy of the Government in securing a just deal. This iniquitous method of fixing pensions should be scrapped and in its stead there should be substituted a system which conforms to Labor policy. It has been said over and over again that we are living in an affluent society. I for one do not subscribe to that description when approximately 80 per cent of age and invalid pensioners have no income exclusive of the pension. Naturally they are subjected to a much inferior standard of living compared with other sections of the community. These forgotten people are not part of the so-called affluent society. It is true that a very minor portion of this 80 per cent receives the supplementary allowance of $2 a week, but since the Ask in Liberal Government amended the Landlord and Tenant Act in New South Wales, making rent control ineffective, rentals have skyrocketed, much to the detriment of pensioners. 
In the district of Redfern in which I live many pensioners are paying from $6 to $10 a week for a room. I cite the case of a married couple whose sole income is the pension. This couple approached me to inquire whether I could find them accommodation at a rental within their means. They had been living in a little dilapidated cottage at a low rental. The owner increased the rent to $12.50 a week. The matter was taken to court and the court ordered a reduction to $10.25, which of course was beyond their capacity to pay. Subsequently they were forced to move in with a married daughter with a family and reside in a home which had inadequate space for them. This is only one of many cases in which pensioners have approached me with rent problems. All that I can do is refer them to my State parliamentary colleagues so that the persons concerned may have their names listed for a pensioner housing unit. However, there is a minimum waiting period of 5 years for these units. 
It is important when dealing with pensions to bear in mind at all times that pensioners pay the same price over the counter for meat, bread, milk, groceries, fruit, vegetables, clothing, shoes, etc., as does any other member of the community. They receive no price concessions. We must also remember that the pensioners of today were the pioneers of yesterday. They had to raise their families the hard way and they did this without grumbling so that their sons and daughters would not experience similar hardships. 
I now refer to the pensioner wife's allowance which is paid to the wife of an invalid pensioner, the wife of an age pensioner on reaching the age of 70, or the wife of a person in receipt of an age pension who is unable to work. The allowance is $7 a week. I think everyone will agree that that is totally inadequate. I shall illustrate the point clearly. The wife, not of pensionable age, of an invalid, incapacitated or age pensioner of 70 years or more qualifies for the allowance. If the husband is paying rent he will qualify for the supplementary allowance of $2 a week, making a total of $24.50 a week combined pension. Yet a married pensioner couple will receive $27.50 a week, or $3 a week more. Should the invalid pensioner own a home, it will be $5 a week more. This indeed exemplifies the imbalance. It is weighted very heavily against the pensioner whose wife receives only the allowance. This injustice should be rectified. 
I turn now to the B class widows pension. Recipients of this pension total about 40,000. The rate will be $13.75 a week. In referring to this section of social services, I shall point to one of the Government's many inconsistencies. Several years ago the age and invalid pension was fixed at a base rate. It applied to every pensioner, whether single or married. This system was abolished and the combined pension of a married couple was reduced. This step was taken on the basis that two can live more cheaply than one. That reasoning is completely shattered when account is taken of the fact that a widow on a B class pension, who naturally is a single pensioner, is obliged to meet the same living costs as a single age or invalid pensioner. Yet she will receive an amount equivalent to that paid to each of a pensioner couple or, to put it another way, $1.75 less than the pension for a single age or invalid pensioner. Put simply, it just does not make sense to argue that two can live cheaper than one. 
Let me refer now to child endowment and the maternity allowance. For 20 years there has been no increase in the rate of endowment paid for the first child despite spiralling inflation in that time. It is interesting to note that before his elevation to the Ministry the Minister for Social Services expressed in this House and in newspaper articles alarm at the declining birth rate. Is it any wonder that the birth rate has been declining. The Government does little or nothing adequately to encourage families in the lower income bracket to bring children into the world. If economic circumstances were better, thousands of parents would be keen to increase the size of their families. I wonder whether the Minister is aware that it costs about $4 a week to provide the special foods and care recommended for babies by baby health centres. Yet this Government pays an insignificant 50c a week towards the cost of rearing the first child. As a child gets older the cost of keeping it increases, particularly the cost of clothing, footwear and education. 
As for the maternity allowance, except for a minor adjustment in 1947 it has remained unaltered for 27 years, notwithstanding that pre-natal and hospital costs have increased 5-fold over the period. Surely irrefutable evidence such as this must convince the Government that the initial step in seeking to improve the birth rate is to increase child endowment and the maternity allowance. The great migration programme introduced by the Labor Government in the post-war years and administered by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  and carried on by successive Liberal-Country Party governments has been a remarkable success. However, we must be ever mindful of the fact that a baby born in Australia is just as important as a migrant brought here from overseas. 
Let us examine the pensioner funeral benefit. This scheme was introduced in 1943 and provided for the payment of $20 towards the cost of a funeral of a pensioner. The amount has remained unaltered for 27 years except in the case of one of a married pensioner couple. In that case the surviving partner would receive a benefit of $40. That alteration in the benefit became operative only a few years ago. If the Minister would care to make inquiries he would find that $20 would meet only 50 per cent of the cost of a coffin. The cost of a funeral has increased more than 500 per cent since 1943 yet, except for the case of a married pensioner couple to which I have referred, the Government has done nothing to rectify the grave injustices that exist. 
I have consistently protested in this . House about an anomaly in the administration of the Department of Social Services which often penalises pensioners financially. This anomaly arises out of the fact that successful applications for pension become operative from the first pension day after the receipt of the application. Let me illustrate how the anomaly operates. Social service pensions are paid fortnightly. For instance, next Thursday 24th September is pension day. If an application for a pension is received between now and 24th September the pension, if approved, will be payable from 24th September. But if the application is received on Friday 25th September the pension will not be payable until 8th October - almost a fortnight. Because of a delay of one day in lodging an application a single pensioner could be $31 out of pocket - 2 weeks pension - and a married pensioner couple $55 out of pocket. Such sums could be of great help to the majority of pensioners. I realise that in dealing with applications for pension a time limit has to be fixed but surely it could be fixed at each Thursday and not each second Thursday. With the availability of electronic data processing equipment in the Department, the change that I suggest would not present any major problems. The adoption of my proposal could mean that a single pensioner would be $15.50 better off and a pensioner couple $27.50 better off. 
This legislation shows no stimulating approach to the plight of those in want and ignores completely the poverty level to which many thousands of Australians have been subjected due to the Government's failure  to  stem spiralling inflation which has resulted in exorbitant prices being charged for vital necessities essential to sustain life. Where is the promised review so eloquently announced by the Prime 
Minister? This Government's policy is to give as little as possible and to defer as long as possible the granting of any worthwhile benefit to the vast majority of pensioners. Prior to the elections of 1969 the Prime Minister loudly praised in a television interview the tapered means test. In support of his argument he shrewdly selected the maximum permissible combined pension and income of S40 a week for a single person and $70 a week for a married couple. As a vote catcher his argument sounded very attractive. What he overlooked telling the viewing audience, whether inadvertently or by design, was the way in which the means test was applied. For example, a single person in receipt of income, such as superannuation, of $39 a week would qualify for a pension only if he had assets amounting to less than $419. He would then receive a pension of $1 a week. A married couple receiving a superannuation income of $69 a week would qualify for a pension of 50c each a week provided their combined assets did not exceed $839. How many single persons of pensionable age with an income of $39 a week would have assets of less than $419? How many married couples with an income of $69 a week would have assets of less than $839? I. venture to say that not 1,000 people in the whole of Australia would qualify for the permissible combined pension and income of $40 in the case of single persons and $70 in the case of married couples. How ridiculous to select one case that appears attractive and not to tell the people how the means test would be applied. Such action just prior to an election was misleading and taken with a view to winning votes. 
I summarise my remarks by emphasising that the Government stands condemned for its callous disregard for the welfare of the pensioners and for its insulting and disgusting increase of 50c a week in pensions. It stands condemned for its failure to increase child endowment, for its failure to classify the class B widow in the same category as the single age or invalid pensioner, for its failure to increase the maternity allowance and for its failure to adjust pensioner funeral benefits. I am honoured to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden). 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I will admit that, this morning I did beat the gun in regard to asking you to accept an amendment. The correct procedure would have been for me to wait until the Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  moved his motion that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  be suspended from the services of the House. Now,  Mr Speaker,  you do not suspend anyone from the House. This is done by resolution of the House. There is nothing to stop me from moving such an amendment proposing that somebody else be suspended instead of another honourable member - in this case, the honourable member for Dawson. 
You made a ruling in regard to this matter in a previous case where a censure motion was moved and the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  moved what I considered to be a negative amendment But the Parliament considered that it was in order according to our Standing Orders. Under these circumstances, I submit that you must accept an amendment moved to the motion moved by the Leader of the House in regard to the suspension of an honourable member who has been named. No doubt, you will quote from some standing order. But I say this: To be consistent with your ruling in the previous case as to what is a negative, you must accept what I think is a negative amendment also in this case, that is, in the naming of a person and in the suspension of that person. I claim that, having regard to your previous ruling, if you wish to be consistent, you must accept when in future the Leader of the House moves that a person be suspended from the services, of the House, an amendment to that motion. You must do that to be consistent with your previous rulings because that amendment would be relevant to the matter before the House. 
In speaking to the estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department, 1 shall confine my remarks to the television industry, in which actors, actresses, writers and technicians are seeking a better deal for Australian television shows, and quite rightly so, because at present overseas programmes are swamping the local screens. We have reached a stage when a showdown is necessary to protect this important industry from extinction. Australian television stations spend huge sums purchasing American and British programmes, while the local industry is not encouraged to expand. Conversely it is being slowly strangled by the failure of the Government to take positive steps to nurture this Australian industry. The existing quota system which is supposed to give Australian shows sufficient time on television, is a complete farce. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board, the guardian of our television screens, has done nothing adequate to enforce a policy designed to encourage and protect our local industry. When a United States or a British television film or entertainment show is produced, there is a ready market available. As a consequence production costs are soon cleared and the show can then be sold in Australia very cheaply. This practice can be truly labelled as unfair competition to the Australian industry. 
The distribution of Australian productions is very limited because the United States and the United Kingdom both rigidly enforce a policy to protect their own television industries. For example, 86 per cent of television shows in the United Kingdom and nearly 100 per cent in the United States must be locally produced. Naturally it is extremely difficult for Australiato break into either of these 2 markets; yet unlimited imports are allowed into Australia because tariff protection is minimal and riddled with loopholes. For instance, a tariff of 5c a foot is charged on imported American film and 1c a foot on British film. As a result some American material is processed in Britain and enters Australia as a product of that country at lc a foot. This is only a fraction of the tariff protection afforded to other Australian industries against overseas competition. Some Australian producers have new shows planned but are unable to commence production because of financial circumstances. One producer has been asked for 26 additional episodes of a well known and popular children's series of films which he had mads last year. This request came from an American television network. However, the Australian producer is compelled to wait until he receives back money from the previous series before commencing production. By then it could be too late. 
Like other honourable members and honourable senators my commitments in attending social functions, Party and other organisation meetings are very extensive but despite this I do on occasions have a night at home and relax by watching television. I enjoy watching such films as 'Homicide', 'Division 4' and 'Bellbird' and good entertainment in the Barry Crocker, Rex Mossop, Joe Martin, Bob Rogers and, until recently, the Bobby Limb shows. In addition, I believe that 'Showcase' and New Faces' are excellent entertainment. There is also the Bob Dyer BP show and the Roland Strong Coles show, both of which are quiz shows and which are far superior to any imported ones in their various categories of entertainment. However, we desperately need far greater encouragement and incentive to produce more drama to retain our artists and writers in Australia. We have the talent;let us use it. Let me mention some Australians who made good overseas. The late Errol Flynn, until his death, was one of the world's most popular actors. Rod Taylor is in big demand by all film producers. Then there are John McCallum, Merle Oberon, Peter Finch, Michael Pate, Victoria Shaw, Diane Cilento, Cecil Kellaway, Zoe Caldwell, Dame Judith Anderson, Patsy Ann Noble, Chips Rafferty, and, in other fields of entertainment, Joan Sutherland, June 
Bronhill, Frank Ifield, Rolf Harris, Frank Thring, John Serge, Lana Cantrell, The Seekers, the Bee Gees, Cathie Goreham, who is a world leading ballet dancer; and writers such as Morris West, famous for the book 'Shoes of the Fisherman', Ralph Smart of the 'Danger Man* series, John Cleary, John O'Grady, Eric Taylor, Chris Beard, Patrick White and Ray Lawler. 
Now let us examine the quota system which is controlled by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. It requires a paltry half an bour a week per channel between the hours of 7 p.m. and 9.30 p.m., which is about 3 per cent of this peak viewing time for local productions. The Board does nothing about the glut of American dramas that saturate our screens. Some of them are up to 30 years old and some are showing for the third and fourth time. Some of the American films shown after 10.30 p.m.. particularly horror and space films, are junk, and I submit this is a most fitting description. I was incensed when Mick Jagger was brought out to Australia to play the role of Ned Kelly. This was ridiculous when the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  would have fitted the part admirably. 
In concluding my remarks I should like to point out that Australian actors and actresses proved themselves during World War II and the post war period when American radio dramas were unprocurable and the local radio industry had to expand or die. For many years, and until television became more popular than radio, the Australian actor proved his technical and artistic ability, and against telling odds he has proved his worth on television. I believe the Australian people are being Americanised by television. What we need is more drama and entertainment depicting the Australian way of life. The Australian Broadcasting Control Board requires an overall 50 per cent Australian content. This figure is false in practice. This 50 per cent is mainly composed of cheap day time programmes, football games, news broadcasts, boxing and wrestling matches, game and quiz shows, amateur talent quests, and so on. Worse still, Australian drama and children's programmes are counted as twice their length in calculating the 50 per cent content. English programmes are also quoted as Australian content. Repeated Australian programmes are also counted. 
These are often hidden late at night but arc still used in eking out the local television content. Some of these shows are 10 years old and are repeated without any additional payment to actors, writers or production houses. Naturally they keep out new local productions. 
Another important factor in encouraging and expanding our local industry is the drain on our overseas credit balance by the huge annual bill for the purchase of American and British films and shows. Finally, I should like to emphasise that this is a young nation possessing excellent television talent. Let us encourage it in the future and let us enforce a true figure of 50 per cent of local content. 

Order! The time allotted for consideration of the proposed expenditure has expired. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. f ' " ' 
Defence Services 
Total Proposed expenditure, $1,024,480,300. 
Department of Defence 
Proposed expenditure, $23,724,000. 
Department  of  the Navy . 
Proposed expenditure, $216,888,000. 
Department  of  the Army 
Proposed expenditure, $402,512,000. 
Department  of  Air' 
Proposed expenditure. $272,998,500. 
Department  of  Supply 
Proposed expenditure, $104,600,500. 
General Services 
Proposed expenditure, $3,757,300. 
I preface my question, which I direct to the Treasurer, by stating that the United States Ambassador, in giving an address to the Perth Chamber of Commerce on 23rd September last, stated, inter alia, that over the past 10 years the proportion of foreign ownership of Australian company assets has not increased. I ask the honourable gentleman whether he is aware that the figures as issued by the Commonwealth Statistician indicate an increase of foreign ownership of Austraiian industrial assets exceeding 10 per cent in the last 10 years. Will he inform the United States Ambassador that his statement is incorrect? 
I will not detain the House for more than two or three minutes, but as the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  is present in the House I should like to mention a case which I have previously brought to his notice. I wish to re-emphasise what I believe to be an unfair attitude in regard to social services legislation. I refer to employees in retarded workshops. There is in my electorate a young lady, possibly about 30 years of age, who is working in a retarded workshop in Redfern which the Minister had the honour to open not so long ago. She receives a wage of $2.50 a week.  Her  employment is actually for the purpose of rehabilitating her. This organisation is doing yeoman service in this field. 
However, the fact is that because she receives $2.50 a week she can receive only 50c a week supplementary allowance, so she is really penalised to the extent of $1.50 a week by working in this retarded workshop. I believe that in circumstances such as this the means test on the supplementary allowance should be waived. 1 do not think that anybody would object if the means test were waived in instances of this kind. I do not believe that even other people in receipt of the invalid pension who were normal people would object if the means test were abolished in these circumstances. I ask the Minister to give this matter his earnest consideration. I know that it is a matter of policy but when this matter is brought up at a later date I would ask him to go right into the question of these unfortunate people working in retarded workshops to see whether they can be exempted from the means test on the supplementary allowance of $2 a week. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Has the Minister for Immigration seen recent suggestions in the Press that some form of home visit insurance should be provided for migrants to cover them against the heavy cost of a return visit to their homelands in cases of emergency? Will the honourable gentleman advise the House whether such a proposal is under consideration by his Department and, in the short term, what action is intended to be taken? 
I remind the honourable member that that is an unparliamentary remark. 
It is true that Australia has ridden on the sheep's back. She rides to some extent on its sagging back today, and let no-one think that this country can do without the export earnings of the wool industry. There are far too many knockers of the wool industry and of wool. We hear people saying that wool is finished, that it represents only 7 per cent of the world's apparel fibres and that synthetics have licked wool. We hear these slogans. I believe they are nonsense. The industry is in trouble but I believe that the tide of fashion will turn and that the smart women, the fashionable men such as the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and even the honourable member for Riverina, will see the light and wear woollen suits. Wool is a prestige product. I am confident that wool will ride out the present crisis with the assistance of this Government. 
We hear that millers overseas are going out of business, and we hear about the great difficulty under which the overseas mills are labouring. We hear that some of them have gone broke. This may be true. But I refer to the reports from some British companies. The first one is from Aire Wool Corporation Ltd for the year ended 30th July 1969. This was before the price fall in wool. This company, which has a capital of £Stg868,334, had a profit of £St&amp;179,774. The profit as a percentage of capital after tax was 20.8 per cent. The director's fees were Stg36,973. The dividends in that year increased by 10 per cent. Let us look at the report of Allied Textile Co. Ltd for the year ended 30th September 1969. This company has a capital of £Stg1,598,824. The profit after tax was £Stg519,895, and the company had a 33 per cent return on capital after tax. The  chairman  of that company said that the achievement of these results was a sufficient indication of the likely progress of the group to justify the directors' recommendation to increase the ordinary dividend. 
I could go on to show that there are numerous companies that are doing jolly well out of the fibre of wool. My colleague, the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett),  gave some of the figures for the Japanese mills. It would be foolish for us to think that there is not a ceiling in price set by alternative fibres. Whilst we may expect prices to rise as a result of getting some firm foundation for a rise, I think the wool industry will have to live with the competitiveness of other fibres, and accordingly a ceiling will be placed somewhere - I hope, above where it exists today. I am pleased to see that the Minister and the Government have recognised the need to act quickly to establish this floor. Clause 2 in Part 1 of the Bill states: 
This Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent. 
This, of course, meets the requirements of the New South Wales Graziers Association, whose council met during the week. They requested that the Federal Government be asked to take the action necessary to enable a reserve price to be extended over the whole of the Australian wool clip with the aim of preventing prices falling below the current levels and restoring the confidence of the wool trade; such a reserve to be maintained until the objectives are achieved or the true demand picture for wool has been restored. I believe that the Commission will provide a new confidence for the wool industry, not only for the growers but for the buyers, for the trade and for the bankers and Australia generally. This is one of Australia's most important industries. I am delighted that in this short time the Government and the Minister, in particular, have worked so patiently and well for the industry to achieve this objective. 
Is the motion seconded? 
I have been a member of this Parliament since a byelection in May 1955 and during tha*, period I, like other members of the Opposition who have been here over the years, have appreciated the great ability of Jack McEwen. I endorse the remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  Speaking about your personality, Jack, we are sorry to see you go, but as politician we are bloody glad. But if you, as a private citizen, ever lead a delegation to the next Minister for Primary Industry, that is the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  on behalf of the primary producers I am sure that your views will be respected and given every consideration. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  accused the Opposition of using this topic of social services as a political football. I should like to remind him that every State branch of the Original Old Age and Invalid Pensioners' Association of Australia resolved unanimously that a supplementary budget should be introduced this session for the purpose of giving pensioners justice. I believe the Opposition would be failing in its duty if it did not put the case for the various branches of the Original Old Age and Invalid Pensioners' Association of Australia. We know full well that this body is non-political because its members usually come to Canberra on Budget day seeking to put their case to the Minister for Social Services, the Treasurer and others on the Government side and to members of the Opposition. I believe this non-political organisation should have a voice in this Parliament through the Labor Party, if no other party is willing to take up the cudgels on its behalf. lt is interesting to note that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has again adopted the old hackneyed argument of comparing the rate of pension paid by the Chifley Government more than 21 years ago with that paid today. Such a comparison is utterly absurd. The Budget brought down by  Mr Chifley  in 1949 provided for a total expenditure of a little in excess of SI, 000m. The Budget brought down by the Gorton Government last August provided for expenditure approaching $8,000m - nearly an eight-fold increase. I do not believe the average person, particularly the pensioner, is concerned one iota with the rate of pension paid by the Bruce-Page, the Scullin, the Lyons, the Menzies-Fadden, the Curtin or the Chifley governments. Such trite comparisons are used in an endeavour to divert attention from the Gorton Government's miserly increase of 50c in the last Budget and its failure to introduce a supplementary budget this session in order to increase the pension and thus catch up with spiralling price rises which have occurred since October last year and provide for further rises which will occur before the next Budget is brought down in August of this year. 
As a matter of interest, I shall cite the comments of two non-Labor Sydney newspapers on the 50c increase announced in the August 1970 Budget. The Sydney 'Sun' did not waste words with a lengthy comment. It simply said: 
It's disgusting. 
The Sydney 'Daily Mirror' said:  lt makes few richer  and  the pensioners poorer. 
I now turn to some of the statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  - that self-professed emancipist of the underprivileged section of the community. A few days prior to the ballot for the Liberal Party leadership, following the tragic death of  Mr Harold  Holt, the Prime Minister made a pre-selection speech. He said: 
If I was able to frame the nation's future policies, I would aim at a society which would remove burdens and fear from the shoulders of those in dire need. 
Later, on 12th March 1968, His Excellency the Governor-General delivered a speech in another place outlining Government policy. During that speech he stated: 
My Government will review the field of social welfare with the object of assisting those in dire need, while at the same time not discouraging thrift, self-help and self-reliance. 
The Prime Minister has completely and miserably failed to bring to fruition his glittering, grandiose but pretentious thoughts. Let us now examine the value of the age and invalid pension in terms of purchasing power. The single pension rate is $15.50 and the married couple rate is $27.50. The point must be stressed that approximately 78 per cent of aged and invalid pensioners have no income other than the pension. It is true that a very minor portion of this 78 per cent receives a $2 supplementary allowance which is payable only to single pensioners or the pensioner whose wife receives only the wife's allowance. This allowance is paid provided they are paying rent, board or lodging and is subject to a rigid means test. 
But since the Askin-Cutler LiberalCountry Part)' Government in New South Wales amended the Landlord and Tenant Act and made rent control almost ineffective, rentals have skyrocketed, much to the detriment of pensioners. For example, in the district of Redfern in which I live many pensioners are paying up to $10 a week for a room. I shall cite the case of a married pensioner couple whose sole income is the pension. This couple approached me to inquire whether I could find them accommodation at a rental within their means. They had been living in a little cottage at a low rental. The owner increased the rent to $12.50 a week. The matter was taken to court and the court ordered a reduction in the rental to $10.25 a week which, of course, wa« beyond their capacity to pay. Subsequently they were forced to move in with a married daughter and her family and reside in a home which had inadequate living space for them. 
This is only one of many cases in which pensioners have approached me seeking accommodation. Unfortunately, all 1 can do is refer them to my State parliamentary colleagues so that the persons concerned may have their names listed for a pensioner housing unit. However, there is a minimum waiting period of approximately 5 years for these units, ind the outlook for these unfortunate and forgotten people is not very bright. There ;s no need for me to cite the exorbitant cost of meat, groceries, bread, butter, fruit and vegetables, footwear and clothing. Any honourable member's wife can provide full information on these matters. But it is of the utmost importance to bear in mind at all times that pensioners pay the same prices over the counter for everyday essentials as does any other member of the community. Pensioners receive no price concessions. It has been said that we are living in an affluent society. 1 do not subscribe to that description when there are so many pensioners living in dire poverty. 
I shall now refer to the pensioner wife's allowance which is paid to the wife of an invalid pensioner or an age pensioner of 70 years or more. I shall illustrate the point clearly. A wife who is not of pensionable age receives an allowance of $7 a week. If the pensioner husband is paying rent and subject to the means test he would qualify for the S2 supplementary allowance. His pension would then be $17.50, and with his wife's allowance of $7 the couple would receive a total of $24.50 a week. This is $3 less than the combined married pension rate of $27.50. Should the pensioner own his home the amount would be $5 less per week. This exemplifies an unjustifiable imbalance. It is weighted very heavily against the pensioner whose wife receives only the $7 allowance. I do not think any honourable member would object to this injustice being rectified, particularly in view of the fact that the cost would be microscopic. 1 summarise my remarks by emphasising that the Government stands condemned because it shows no stimulating approach to the plight of those in want and ignores completely the poverty level to which many thousands of pensioners have been subjected, due to the Government's failure to stem spiralling inflation which has resulted in exorbitant prices being charged for vital necessities which are essential to sustain life. The Government must stand condemned also for its failure to introduce a supplementary budget to increase the pension to alleviate the hardship and distress being suffered by pensioners, the pioneers of this country. 
Last year the Minister for Immigration announced that the Commonwealth Government would move towards more air travel for migrants instead of sea travel. Can the Minister indicate to the House whether this policy has been found to be successful, whether any actual difficulties have been encountered, what percentage of migrants are presently travelling by air and what is the position concerning the baggage of migrants who come by air? 
I have been a member of the Public Accounts Committee for well nigh  15  years and both the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and the shadow Treasurer are ex-members of that Committee. There has been quite a lot of controversy each year in regard to the Advances to the Treasurer. I am a firm advocate of the use of this term at the very utmost for certain purposes particularly where we hear the Auditor-General criticising various departments because of under-expenditure year after year. If I may illustrate the point, there may be some item on which a department estimated an expenditure of Sim for each of the last  3  years but on which it has spent only  60  per cent of that money, in other words.  $600,000,  in each of those  3  years. I believe that unless there are special circumstances departments should estimate for a particular year according to the amount spent in the preceding year. We would then be able to estimate taxation at Budget time more accurately than we do now. I think it would be wise on all occasions for departments - unless a special occasion arises or there is a Cabinet direction in regard to what expenditure will be for the next financial year - to gauge their estimates according to what was spent in the previous year. If by some chance extra money should be needed by a department for a particular item it should come under the Advance to the Treasurer. I believe we would acquit ourselves much better in forming our estimates. I am sure if there was an estimates committee functioning within the House of Representatives as there is in the British Parliament we would have much better estimates presented at Budget time than we have now and departments would be brought into line in respect of more accurate estimating on each occasion. 
ls the Prime Minister aware that a recent gal I tip poll indicated that 2 out of every 3 people, in. Australia would favour Commonwealth control of prices? Would the Prime Minister be prepared to submit to the people iti a referendum a request for constitutional power to control prices? 

Order! 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  who has just resumed his seat, mentioned the S2 for $1 grant for housing for aged people, but what the honourable ment be i did not say was that under the Chifley housing agreement which expired in 1956 there was provision for a certain amount of the money available for housing to be spent for the purpose of housing pensioners. But in 1956 that provision was excluded from the Menzies housing agreement. In other words, the Menzies Government gave no thought to housing the pensioners. That situation continued for many years until the $2 for Si grant was introduced, and during that time the Commonwealth did absolutely nothing about housing for pensioners. 
I propose to deal with several other  aspects of  social services. We have heard much specious argument about what the Australian Labor Party did under Chifley. What does it matter what pension was paid under the Bruce-Page Government, under Menzies, Scullin or anyone else? The point is: Is $16 a week sufficient for a pensioner and can the economy afford to pay more? Will the Government supporter stand up and be counted as saying that $16 a week is sufficient? I doubt it. We hear much argument from the other side of the chamber, mainly at Budget time but also on occasions like this, that something better should be done, but what do they do about it? Absolutely nothing. Let us consider what the additional 50c will buy. 
Perhaps it is enough for 2 loaves of bread and possibly a specked orange. We must bear in mind the purchasing power of the pension today. 1 agree with the remarks made by the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  last week when he referred to the rapacious landlords of Brisbane exploiting age pensioners. This is happening also in Sydney. Half of their pension is being paid out as rent for rooms in my electorate. 
Pensioners are paying as much as $10 for a room. Admittedly those pensioners are entitled to the $2 supplementary allowance, but is it right that they should pay $10 a week rent for a room? If the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  does not believe what I say he can come to my electorate and I will show him that this is so. fs this the way to treat pensioners? 
Why talk about what Labor paid as « pension? How does that help the pensioners? These are merely specious arguments used for the purpose of trying to direct attention away from the miserable increase of 50c. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  mentioned the wife's allowance of $7 a week, but 1 remind honourable members that that applies mainly to the wives of invalid pensioners who in most cases would have to stay at home to attend to the needs of their invalid pensioner husbands. As a result the pensioner husband would receive $2 a week supplementary allowance, making his total pension $18 a week.  His  wife would receive the $7. So the total income for the pensioner couple would be $25, which is $3.50 below the standard rate pension paid to a married couple. Is this just? Is this fair? Is this just? Of course it is not. Much of what the honourable member said is correct, but age pensioners must be 70 years of age before their wives can qualify for the $7 allowance. The Minister knows this. Let us be factual about these matters. Why be hypocritical about them? The Opposition asks: Is the 50c increase enough? I know that the hour is late and that the Minister for Social Services is anxious to make his reply, but if honourable members opposite think that $16 a week is sufficient let them stand up and be counted. Of course they will not do this. 
I desire to address a question to the Minister for National Development in his capacity as Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I preface my question by stating that prior to the last House of Representatives election a Russian Embassy official broke ali precedents and protocol in addressing a Liberal Party branch meeting in Canberra while wearing a badge to vote No. 1 for the official Liberal Party candidate, a  Mr Maher.  I ask: Will the honourable gentleman make it known to all Embassy officials that it is most unethical to take part in another country's political elections? 

Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 financial measures? There being no Objection, I will allow this course to be followed. 
I call the honourable member for Chifley. 
Deputy Speaker, may I make a- 
-! take this opportunity to congratulate heartily the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  for the concise way in which he put forward Labor policy on this matter. As he said, over the years the Government has repeatedly given us ambiguous policies in regard to tariffs. Like other honourable members, including the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  have done, I refer to the textile industry in relation to low wage countries and imports from these countries. It would be impossible for our textile industry to compete with the low wage countries, particularly Taiwan, Hong Kong and South Korea. We have many industrial amenities in Australia which it is our duty to protect. I refer to long service leave, compulsory annual leave, adequate sick leave and workers compensation. If we want to protect those benefits we have to protect jobs and we can only do this by tariff protection. 
But I would like to point this out. We can have a situation where through the abolition of tariffs we can abolish an Australian industry and import similar products. Say, for example, we import a shirt from South Korea for  $1  and sell it for  $3,  less than the price of an Australian shirt of similar quality. If we knocked the Australian shirt off the market completely let us not think for one moment that the imported shirt from South Korea would remain at the same price. The price would be increased. With the devaluation of sterling a few years ago, what benefit was passed on to Australian consumers by the importers? Does any honourable member know of any benefits that were passed on? Of course not. The benefits were kept by the importers. As far as we in Australia are concerned it is our duty at all times to protect the jobs of Australian workmen. Nobody on the Government side has explained to us yet how the Government intends to maintain our immigration intake if it abolishes the tariff system, which some honourable members opposite, particularly the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  want. What the honourable member has not explained is where the migrants would find jobs.. They can find jobs only in secondary and. ancillary industries. They cannot find them in the primary industries. In fact, there are fewer people working on the land today than there were during the Second World War. The migrants depend absolutely on work in secondary industries for their survival. If there are no jobs for them it means there is no migrant intake in Australia. What we should press for at all times, in conformity with the very good policy of the Australian Labor Party, is tariff protection in order to protect the jobs of Australian workers. 
Is a division required? 
Question resolved in the negative. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
ls the amendment seconded? . 
Will the Prime Minister consider making a statement explaining the attitude of the Government in matters relating to the international monetary crisis? 
I support the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee and oppose the amendment. I agree entirely with the first part of the speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  but after 16 years in this House I should not like the news to leak into my electorate that I did agree with him - for the first time. However, his final remarks did not, in my opinion, touch on either the motion or the amendment. I am not reflecting on your opinion,  Mr Speaker,  because there may have been some relevance in those remarks. The Minister claimed that the Opposition was being obstructive. Most of the obstruction was retaliation. Honourable members will recall that in the last week of the last period 19 bills were foisted onto the House which was allowed only 21 hours of debating time. The gag was applied to important measures. Yet apparently the Opposition is supposed to sit here day after day and have its nose rubbed in the dirt without taking remedial measures. T do not think we would be worthy of an Opposition if we did not take measures. 
I will outline the reasons why 1 oppose the amendment which provides for a 10.30 start on Tuesday mornings. The mover of the amendment has not been a member for very long and he would not understand that there are many parliamentary committees which meet every Tuesday morning, some meetings being public inquiries. One such committee is the Public Accounts Committee. Other committees include the Foreign Affairs Committee. 
YOU have had your say; surely I can have my say. 
The honourable member said that members can be here at 10.30 a.m. on Tuesdays. This is not so of all members. Some members also would have a dickens of a job getting home on Thursdays. There can be transport difficulties particularly with aircraft. They would find it difficult to be here by 10.30 of a Tuesday morning. It has been said that most members from remote electorates come here of a Monday night. That may be so in some cases, but not in every case. I know that a lot of Queensland members come to Canberra on Tuesday mornings. They would lose the Monday nights in their homes or their electorates. 
-This applies to South Australia as well. I have no complaint about the views put forward by the honourable member. I am only expressing the view which I think everyone has agreed with over the years. In my opinion the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee that we should revert to a 3-day week is acceptable to the majority of  members. 

 - Mr Speaker, I desire to raise a matter of privilege. I refer to an article which appeared in the Sydney Daily Telegraph' of Friday, 27th August 1971. This newspaper is published by Australian Consolidated Press Ltd. An extract from the article reads: 
A group of ALP Parliamentarians walked out of the Chamber when the quorum was called, well knowing that their action could cause the collapse of the House of Representatives. 
This is a deliberate untruth and it is a reflection on the Chair which, at the time in question, was occupied by  Mr Lucock,  as  Deputy Speaker.  I travelled to Sydney on the morning of Friday, 27th August, and  Mr Lucock  was on the same plane. During the wait for our luggage I showed him the article in the 'Daily Telegraph' and he stated that the extract that I have read could not be true because he always keeps a close eye on the members of the House to see that no member leaves the chamber when a quorum is called. 
As you know,  Mr Speaker,  this procedure is covered by standing order 47 and is strictly carried out at all times by yourself, the  Chairman  and the  Deputy Chairman.  I realise that freedom of the Press is a fundamental principle of democracy and in addition, I know that journalists have to earn a living and that sometimes their reports are exaggerated or misleading in their endeavours to get a story across, but I believe that this House could never condone a deliberate untruth in a matter of this nature. Therefore I move: 
That the matter of the article in the 'Daily Telegraph' of Friday 27 August 1971, be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, firstly I should like to comment upon the remarks made by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  who has just resumed his seat. He stated that under the tapered means test a person could earn $41 a week and still receive a full pension, but what he did not tell the House was that that person could not have assets worth more than $419. I presume that there would not be 1,000 people in Australia who would qualify in the way suggested by the honourable member. Of course, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  says that the pension value is being eroded by the efforts of Bob Hawke and by the trade union movement. But I remind him that the Government has been in office for 22 years. During that time we have seen inflation spiral year after year. I am sure that if the honourable member for Hume stopped to think once in a while it would be an exhilarating experience for him. 
The Social Services Bill (No. 2) which is now before the House provides for increases in age, invalid and widows pensions, in certain allowances and in child endowment. However, the Bill completely ignores the urgent need to improve other aspects of social services which I shall refer to later. Let us examine age and invalid pensions. The increase of $1.25 announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the Budget was one of the greatest confidence tricks ever perpetrated on the 
Australian community. Practically all single pensioners imagined that they would receive an increase of $1.25, and married couples imagined that they would receive a combined increase of $2. It will be a terrific shock to a section of recipients when they find that they miss out altogether. For example, a single pensioner now receiving $13.75 a week or less, and a married pensioner couple receiving a combined pension of $24.50c or less, will receive absolutely nothing. They will not receive one cent. Of course, those to whom the tapered means test applies are completely overlooked. It is interesting to note that the Minister for Social Services, as a backbencher in many of his contributions to social welfare debates, was a fervent advocate for the abolition of the means test. Yet, today we find that he is the Minister responsible for the introduction of legislation which imposes a much more stringent means test than the existing merged means test which applies to the vast majority of pensioners. 
As usually happened in past years, the Minister and Government supporters, including the honourable member for Hume who has just resumed his seat, in their endeavours to divert attention from this legislation compared the amount of pension now paid with that paid by the Chifley Government in 1949. To make a comparison on this basis is absolutely absurd. I do not intend to pursue this line of argument except to mention that the 1949-50 Budget brought down by the Chifley Government provided for an expenditure of $l,134m. At that time the pension stood at $4.25m. The 1971-72 Budget provides for an expenditure of over $8,669m, or seven and three-fifths times larger than the Budget in 1949. By using the Minister's argument, one pension of $4-25 paid in 1949 should be seven and three-fifths times greater or $32.30 today. However, we should not be interested in such frivilous analogies. What we must concern ourselves with is the immediate problem of the pensioners in their never ending struggle to exist on the niggardly amount of pension which will operate when this Bill is passed by this House and the Senate, with the ever increasing prices which will again spiral as a result of increases in company tax, fuel tax, postal and telephone charges and so on contained in the Budget. Surely honourable members would be aware of the record high costs of meat, groceries, fruit, vegetables and other vital necessities. A piece of rump steak is now a luxury which the average pensioner could not afford. In additon, clothing costs, shoes, shoe repairs and the like must be taken into consideration when assessing the needs of a pensioner. We must also bear in mind that a pensioner receives no price concessions when he goes into a shop to make a purchase. He pays the same price as any other member of the community does. 
Whilst it is true that some single pensioners paying rent or lodging receive a supplementary allowance of $2 a week, which is subject to a means test, they are paying $8, $10 and up to $12 a week for a room in areas in my electorate. This is the direct result of amendments to the Landlord and Tenant Act in New South Wales introduced by the Askin Government - that is, the Liberal colleagues of the Minister for Social Services. In addition,  Mr Askin  increased pensioners' bus and train fares by 100 per cent. I viewed on television and noticed in the Press last weekend some of the remarks that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made at a gathering in his electorate. He said, inter aiia, that poverty must be eliminated. Similar remarks were uttered by his predecessor, the former Prime Minister and the present right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  But what has been done about it? Absolutely nothing! What possible or positive ideas could the Prime Minister have on poverty? He does not even know what the word means. He has never known what it is to want. He has never been short of money to buy the essentials of life. He has never known what it is to worry about where next week's rent is coming from. He has never known what it is to be unable to buy decent clothes and a pair of shoes for children to wear to school. But unlike the Prime Minister, I can speak from experience During the great depression of the 1930s, I received dole coupons to the value of 14s 2d a week from which I paid 6s a week in rent for one tiny room. This princely sum was to keep myself, my wife and baby daughter. 
Because of that experience, I. submit that I am more qualified to talk on the subject of poverty than is the Prime Minister. In consequence, I believe that the provisions contained in this Bill to increase the age and invalid pensions are an absolute scandal and a disgrace to the Government. The one and only satisfactory method of providing a fair and just pension is to adopt the policy enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  during the 1969 election campaign - that is, that the pension should be 25 per cent of the average weekly male earnings. This would obviate the necessity for the pensioner organisations to come begging cap in hand every year to Canberra seeking a just pension. Wage and salary earners have access to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to obtain increases to keep up with the cost of living, and quite rightly so. But the poor old pensioner is at the complete mercy of the Government for any pension handouts. These- forgotten people are the pioneers of this country and are entitled to a reasonable standard of living so they may finish the rest of their days with a sense of pride and dignity. 
Let us examine the pensioner wife's allowance which will be increased by $1 a week, from $7 to $8. This is probably one of the worst features of the Bill. This allowance has remained stationary for some considerable time, despite spiralling costs. Yet, the increase proposed in this Budget is only a miserable SI. This allowance is payable only to a wife, not of pensionable age, of an invalid pensioner or of an age pensioner of 70 years or more. I shall point out a serious injustice arising from this allowance. For example, a married pensioner couple who qualify for the full increase will receive a combined rate of $30.50 a week. Yet a couple to whom the wife's allowance is paid will receive a combined rate of $25.25. If the husband qualifies for the supplementary allowance, the combined rate will be $27.25. In the first case, the rate is $5.25 below that of a married pensioner couple, and in the second case it is $3.25 below that of a married pensioner couple. Why should this be the case? The same cost of living applies in all cases; yet one pensioner couple is better off than the other. Conversely, Labor Patty policy provides for the full pension to be paid to a wife in these circumstances. 
I now wish to deal with the pensioner funeral benefit which was introduced by the Curtin Labor Government in 1943. An amount of $20 is paid to the person responsible for the cost of the funeral to help defray the expense. It is hard to believe, but nevertheless it is true, that the amount is still $20 today after 28 years of increased costs. In the case of a married pensioner couple, if the husband dies his spouse receives $40. This alteration was made only a few years ago. I wish to give honourable members some interesting news on this matter. I made inquiries at one of the larger undertakers in my electorate as to the cost of a funeral. He told me that the very cheapest funeral would cost $71.40 for the casket and $135 for the hearse and one mourning coach. The allowance that is offered by this Government is not sufficient to place a deposit on the casket. 
I know this is a grave matter. Now I turn to the maternity allowance. This benefit, except for a slight adjustment, has not been altered for over 20 years despite the fact that prenatal care and hospital and doctors' costs have skyrocketed over this period. It would appear that the Government is showing little concern about assisting mothers to bring children into this world. Let us examine child endowment. Before commenting on this section of the legislation, I should first like to trace the history of child endowment, which I submit is most interesting. In 1926 a New South Wales Labor Government introduced child endowment for the first time in Australia. The payment at that time was 50c for each child. I remind honourable gentlemen that the purchasing power of 50c in 1926 would be at least equal to the purchasing power of $2.50 today. 
In 1927, with the defeat of the Labor Government, the Nationalist Party, the forerunner of the present Liberal Party, took over. One of its first deeds was to abolish the payment of 50c for the first child. Later in 1941 the Menzies Government introduced child endowment throughout Australia. The payment at that time was 50c for each child except the first child. It is interesting to note that although the Menzies Government introduced Australiawide endowment it did not believe in the principle of this social benefit. The Government was forced into this action by a judgment brought down in the Commonwealth Industrial Court by Judge DrakeBrockman. In 1941 the federal basic wage was based on an amount deemed to be sufficient for a man, his wife and 3 children. The judge in his wisdom said that he considered the basic wage was sufficient only for a man, wife and one child. As a consequence the Menzies Government, of which Arthur Fadden was Treasurer, panicked because it knew that there would be a sizeable . increase in the basic wage unless child endowment was introduced. Hence the benefit was initiated by the Menzies Government. 
In 1941 the basic wage stood at $7.90. In 1945 the Curtin Labor Government increased endowment by 25c from 50c to 75c. At that time the basic wage was $8.60. Again in 1948 the Chifley Government increased the payment, by a further 25c from 75c to $1. The basic wage was then $11.90 a week. So it can be readily seen that over a period of 7 years from 1941 to 1948 during the war years and early post-war era 2 Labor governments were responsible for doubling child endowment despite the fact that the basic wage had increased by only $4 over that period. In 1950 the Menzies Government introduced the payment of 50c for the first child. In January 1964 the Menzies Government' increased the payment for the third child by 50c from $1 to $1.50 and the payment for each successive child by the same amount. 
In 1967 the Holt Government increased the payment by 25c from $1.50 to $1.75 for the fourth child and by 50c from $1.50 to $2 for the fifth child with a further 25c added for each successive addition to the number of children. Yet the endowment of 50c for the first child has not been adjusted for 21 years and the endowment for the second child of $1 for 23 years. Despite the increases in this legislation, 85 per cent of endowed families, that is, in the first child and 2 children categories, will not receive any increase at all. In most cases the increases to those familes with 3 or more children will be a welcome benefit. However the increases will certainly not act as an incentive or encouragement to stimulate the natural birth rate, which has been declining steadily over the past few years. The major cause of this decline has been the failure of the Government to increase the rates for the first and second children. 
As Commonwealth statistics show, those families in the lower income brackets have the highest number of children, but many parents today are hesitant about having larger families simply because they cannot afford to do so. It has been said by the Minister for Social Services and many of our experts in this field that our declining birth rate demands urgent attention. I agree entirely with this viewpoint, but the paramount question is: How do we remedy the situation? I re-emphasise that the initial step is to increase the payments for the first child arid second child. Honourable members on both sides of the House have continuously supported a migrant intake to assist in populating this country. This great programme was initiated by the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  in bis capacity as Minister for Immigration in the post-war Chifley Government and has been carried on successfully by various governments since 1949. It is true that we must populate this country, but in doing so we must not close our eyes to the fact that we need to increase the natural birth rate. A baby boro in Australia is of equal importance to a welcome migrant. 
I now turn to the B class widow's pensions. Recipients of this pension, if they qualify in the same manner as an aged or invalid pensioner, will receive an increase of $1 a week from $14.25 to $15.25. In referring to this section of social services I shall point out a grave inconsistency detrimental to widows in this category. Several years ago the age and invalid pension was fixed at a base rate. It applied to every pensioner whether single or married. This system was abolished by the Menzies Government and the combined married pension was reduced. This step was taken on the basis that 2 can live more cheaply than one. That reasoning is completely shattered when account is taken of the fact that a B class widow, who naturally is a single person, is obliged to meet the same living costs as a single age or invalid pensioner; yet she will receive an amount equivalent to that paid to each member of a pensioner couple or, to put it another way, $1.50 a week less than the single age or invalid pensioner. Put simply, it makes nonsense of the Government's argument that 2 can live more cheaply than one when it does not practise what it preaches. 
In concluding my remarks let me analyse briefly the amendment which was moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  on behalf of the Opposition and which I wholeheartedly support. Paragraph (1) of the amendment states:  the increases proposed are inadequate, - 
I believe this is undoubtedly true. Paragraph (2) states:  social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living 
My own personal opinion is that no honourable member would quarrel with that view. Paragraph (3) states:  steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty 
I submit that honourable members would unanimously agree on this point. Paragraph (4) states:  a national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated 
This is long overdue and would be implemented by a Labor government. Paragraph (5) states:  pension payments should be a proportion of average weekly earnings adjusted annually 
This is Labor policy also. Paragraph (6) states: a  joint select committee should be established to inquire into and report upon the social welfare needs of the Australian community. 
Such an inquiry, although belated, would be very acceptable. I strongly support the content of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In the first place, when I rose to order while the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  was speaking I did not say  but  I did mean  to  say 'in this House'. It was a Party decision in regard to this matter. No member of the Opposition spoke in this House in support of Castro. If he had, he would have been dealt with by the Party. It was a decision of the Party. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
I desire to ask the Prime Minister a question which is in part supplementary to that asked by the. honourable member for Moreton. Is it a fact that the leader of the largest political party allowed to operate in Pakistan,  Mr Ali  Bhutto, has issued a warning to  President  Yahya Khan that his party will not support any constitution imposed by the army? Is lt a fact that this could open the way for a possible confrontation between the two men similar to that between the gaoled Mujibur Rahman which led to military action and open rebellion in East Pakistan? I ask the right honourable gentleman: Has he any information of further developments in this matter? 
I wish to refer to an action taken by one of my Party colleagues, the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun).  However, I hasten to point out that the honourable member is completely unaware of what I am about to say and I believe I can safely presume that he would not want me to mention the matter because this action was not taken to obtain publicity or self-aggrandisement. The honourable member for Kingston, as all would know, is a medical doctor. During the major epidemic of cholera in Bengal, particularly among the refugees from East Pakistan, he spent 3 J weeks in that country rendering a medical service, treating the afflicted and doing everything possible to prevent the spread of this killer disease. The honourable member would, of course, have used a return travel warrant from his home city of Adelaide to Darwin. However, the cost of the air fare from there to India and all other incidental expenses was borne by the honourable member, although from what I have heard reliably it is the intention of the South Australian branch of the Australian Labor Party to assist in meeting a portion of the cost at a later stage. Such meritorious action is, I believe, worthy of the highest commendation. It shows the honourable member as possessing a desire to assist in such humanitarian work of this nature without expecting or wanting one cent in payment for his services. I repeat that this is not a put up job to obtain political advantage or publicity tor the honourable member for Kingston as I can assure the House that he did not even tell me of his worthy action in the first place. The information came from another source. In addition, the honourable member had no idea that it was my intention to mention this matter as I have done tonight. 
I should now like to refer to a very serious anomaly which exists in respect of the supplementary allowance of $2 a week as applicable to those pensioners employed in sheltered workshops. I will quote one case which 1 believe fully illustrates this anomaly. An adult female invalid pensioner who is mentally retarded is employed in a sheltered workshop in Redern Street, Redfern, which the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  opened some time ago. The case in question was referred to me by a relative of the invalid pensioner and confirmed by the manager of the workshop. This person receives $2.50 a week as an employee in a sheltered workshop. This workshop does an excellent job for these people. It keeps them fully occupied and I should say it is one of the finest institutions in my electorate. But the fact is that by receiving this $2.50 a week in effect she receives only 50c a week supplementary pension. If she did not work in the workshop she would receive $2 a week supplementary pension. In other words, she is working for 50c a week. I believe it is incumbent upon the Government to do something about this. 
I know the Minister is sympathetic towards this section of invalid pensioners but this anomaly should be placed before Cabinet for review so that these people may be exempted from the means test which is applicable in relation to the supplementary pension. We all know that the maximum income allowable, including the $2 a week supplementary pension, is $3 a week. Hence, by earning $2.50 a week she would receive a supplementary allowance of only 50c a week. I do not think that there would be any honourable member in this House who would oppose a Bill which was brought in to exempt such people from that particular section of the means test which is applicable in relation to supplementary pensions. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I should like to confine my remarks to the need for national service training in the first place. This is the first time in the history of this country that such legislation has been introduced for the purpose of conscripting troops to fight overseas in an undeclared war. The fact is that in World War I, which was a much more serious conflagration than this one in Vietnam, the people of Australia were given 2 opportunities to vote in a referendum to decide whether they desired conscription. On both occasions the vote was no. F believe that there was no need for the National Service Act in the first place because the Government should have encouraged people to volunteer. We heard the argument year after year in this place that people would, not volunteer for the Army. The fact is that there would be very few men willing to sacrifice the chance of getting more money in industry by joining the forces and the pay. conditions and amenities in . the armed Services were not nearly as good as they should have been. 
One thing stood in the way of volunteers. Of those people who wanted to volunteer for the Army about 72 per cent were . rejected on the aptitude test. In World War II when the Japanese were on the doorstep of Australia and the situation was desperate there was no such thing as an . aptitude test for anyone joining the Army. Those who had a very poor education proved to be the best soldiers in World War II. Let me quote something that I have mentioned in this chamber before. 1 knew of one case in which a chap tried to enlist in the Army. He was rejected on the aptitude test. He joined the Australian Country Party and later became a member of Parliament. So one can readily see that it is a very strict aptitude test. These facts stand out. 
I believe that we should always try to encourage people to volunteer for the Army. Strange to relate, as my friend and colleague the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser)  was one of the first to point out years ago, at first no-one could volunteer to go to Vietnam, despite the fact that Australia was supposed to be at war. Where is the answer to that query? Nobody has the answer and nobody could have it. 
It is, and the honourable member knows it is. Nobody could volunteer to go to Vietnam. They had to join the permanent Army first. But this was supposed to be a war. It was not like World War II when a person could go and enlist. If it was a war why was wealth not conscripted, as my friend the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  asked? Does the Government put money before human life? That is what it meant. Some people were allowed to go about their ordinary way of life making huge profits, but what about the men who were losing their lives, and what about their parents? The first thing that should have been done in this regard was to have a referendum, as was done on 2 occasions in World War I. 
The Prime Minister who was originally responsible for the introduction of this legislation,  Sir Robert  Menzies, was given the opportunity at the second referendum to vote no, and he did vote no. He did not go to the war. In the first referendum he was not 21 years of age and could not vote, but in the second one he had a vote and he did not go to the war. He was given the opportunity by way of a ballot paper to say whether or not he wanted to go to the war. But the Government did not give the young boys of 20 or then parents the opportunity to say whether or not they wanted to go to the war. I believe that one of the gravest mistakes that has ever been made by any government since federation was that men were conscripted to be sent overesas in an undeclared war. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
That the immediate prospect in East Bengal is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern times. 
That only quick settlement of the Bangla DeshPakistan conflict will make it possible to avert the death of many millions. We therefore urge the honourable members to: 
Raise to fi Om Australian aid to refugees now in India from East Pakistan. 
Support all efforts to guarantee the' fully autonomous development of the people of Bangla Desh. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Firstly I would like to endorse some of the remarks of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  in regard to the attendance of honourable members in this House. There is no doubt that the honourable member for Mallee and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  would have the best attendance records in this House. I do not doubt the sincerity of the honourable member for Mallee. We all know that he is a very sincere member but he is inclined to be parochial at times about his electorate. In passing, the Mallee, as we all know, is famous not only for its Federal member but also for the mallee fowl. Most honourable members in this House would be aware of the mallee fowl and its history. There is also another well known bird - the Ooah bird'. It is a unique bird because it lays square eggs. In the course of laying the square egg it says: 'Ooah, 00ah'. That is how it came by its name. 
I should like to comment in all sincerity on the suggestion of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  that all 27 Ministers should come from members of the House of Representatives. I believe that the House of Representatives is naturally the main House of the Parliament and the place where all legislation should originate. But I think it is ridiculous not to give the Senate some representation in the Cabinet. I believe that not only would a Labor government do this but a Liberal government or any other party in power would certainly ensure that the Senate was represented in the Cabinet. 
That is correct but I think it is impossible to implement it. As a matter of fact I do not think any State would carry it by referendum and as the honourable member would be aware, if he is at all knowledgeable in regard to the Constitution, the Senate can be abolished only by a vote of the 6 States with a complete majority in each State. The Senate can bc abolished not by the Labor Party or its policy, but only by the will of the people in every State of the Commonwealth. 
This might be the last opportunity for honourable members on the back bench to congratulate  Mr Alan  Turner, the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives, who will be retiring at the end of this year. Possibly in the future there may be some eulogistic terms used about  Mr Turner  by the various Ministers and other honourable members but I think that one should take this opportunity to say what a grand job he has done in the Parliament. I do wish, him well in his retirement and I hope that he will have a very happy and healthy life. 
One thing which I have failed to grasp after 16i years in this Parliament is the reason for the Government not having ever accepted any amendment on any major issues in this House. I think this is absolutely absurd. Irrespective of what party is in power, I cannot believe that an amendment with some meat in it has never been put forward by an Opposition. There have been many sensible amendments . proposed but they have never been accepted by the Government. However at times the Government has filched ideas from the Opposition. If I may I will quote a particular example. When the merged means test was introduced several years ago it was claimed by the Government to be a great success but this proposal was the idea of my friend who used to sit in this very seat, Bert Thompson. Bert Thompson plugged for a merged means test in this House for many years but Bert was never given any credit by the Government for its introduction. As a matter of fact the Government claimed complete credit for it and not one word was said in eulogy of Bert Thompson for his ideas on this matter. 
If I may say so - and I do not say this in any sense as a eulogy of myself - I did thrash out year after year in social services debates the matter of people who were almost permanently on unemployed and sickness benefits but who did not qualify for the invalid pension because they were not 85 per cent incapacitated and so on. As a result of those speeches I made every year, the Government has altered the social service provisions. Now anybody on sickness benefits for 6 weeks or more qualifies for the invalid pension rate. I think that these matters should be brought out as often as possible by members of the Opposition, despite the fact that we might not get any credit for them. However, the fact is that it is very unfair particularly for sensible amendments moved by the Opposition time after time not to be accepted. Plenty of amendments of a sensible nature have been moved but they have never been accepted by the Government. I do not know the reason for this non-acceptance. I think that everyone in this House would agree that, irrespective of the way in which honourable members vote on our amendments, sometimes they must see there is a great deal of merit in some amendment. Of course honourable members vote against them because they are voting on party lines. 
These are the sorts of things I would like to see altered in the future in this House because I believe that in the interests of democracy it is only right that when sensible amendments are moved in this House - whether they are accepted by the Government or not - they should be fully debated and if they are accepted after such debate we should ensure that the amendments are put into effect. 
 I listened very attentively to the remarks of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  I wish to speak on 3 subjects on these estimates. The honourable member for 
Grayndler explained the policy of the Labor Party in regard to tariffs which are designed for the purpose not only of maintaining the jobs of Australians but also of making sure that jobs are available each year for school leavers. The honourable member remarked also that there are a couple of free traders on the Government side. There is no doubt about that. They are the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  The honourable member for Wakefield stated that approximately 28 per cent only of the Australian work force are engaged in secondary industry. But what the honourable member did not tell the Committee is that other workers are engaged in industries ancilliary to secondary industry and that these ancilliary industries depend on the manufacturing industries for their very existence. 
Strange to relate, as the honourable member for McMillan pointed out quite rightly - I have mentioned this matter before time after time in this Committee - the past immigration programme has depended and the future immigration programme still is depending on secondary industries to provide employment for new settlers coming to Australia. Fewer people are engaged in primary industry today than were engaged in primary industry before World War II. No employment is to be found in primary industry for new Australian settlers. So, where else are we to find employment for these people except in secondary industry? Let me take one industry as an example. I refer to the textile industry which, without a doubt, is the most decentralised industry in Australia. It provides employment for many people in country and rural centres. Strange to relate, at Lismore in the electorate of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  who is the  Deputy  Prime Minister, there is a huge clothing factory. I venture to say that he would be the last man in this House who would like to see that factory in Lismore close down as a result of the free trade policy advocated by 2 Government members opposite. That factory at Lismore provides employment for many people as well as for school leavers in that district. 
Let us look at some of the prices charged for articles made overseas. I was in Tai wan less than 3 years ago. On leaving the airport there, I went through the trade centre where goods were duty free. Quite a number of good quality shirts were on sale there for 90c each, in Australian currency. It would be absolutely foolish for anyone to believe that such an article could be produced in Australia for that price. In Australia we have provisions for long service leave, compulsory annual leave and adequate sick leave and compensation. Those provisions must be protected. They can be protected only by tariffs. No Government member is opposed to those industrial entitlements; if he were he would say so at election time. If he opposed them in his electorate, I have no doubt that he would be defeated. 
The facts are - and we must always remember this - that our Australian industrial conditions and our social service benefits are entirely dependent on secondary industry. For example, until recently payroll tax was the sole means of paying for child endowment in Australia. That field of taxation has been passed on to the States but the proceeds will still come from secondary industries. Hardly one penny has been contributed by the primary industries by way of payroll tax to keep child endowment going. 
It is very interesting to see that every time the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  speaks on tariffs he does not offer an alternative. He says that we would still have employment in Australia even if we had almost a free trade policy. Is there any country in the world that has a system of free trade? Of course there is not. The United States has a very strict tariff policy, particularly against the entry of Australian wool. This policy has been instituted by the United States simply for the purpose of protecting its own synthetic industries. As mentioned by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  over the period of 20 years since 1950-51, the United Kingdom has a credit of $7,500 and the United States of America a credit for $6,500 on current account. It has been mentioned here that international trade should always be a 2-way street - that is to say, we must buy from the people who buy from us. This philosophy is quite right provided we practise what we preach. When we trade with the United Kingdom and the United States, at least we are doing something to implement the 2-way street policy. That is all right. But why has the Government not reminded the United States and the United Kingdom of their reciprocal obligation because both have been living off our backs as far as trade is concerned for the last 2 decades? 
I believe that if we want to implement the proper tariff policy we must do so in relation to the United States and the United Kingdom. I believe that we could improve our trade with Japan and that Japan could buy more from us if we bought from that country more goods that are not manufactured in Australia and the importation of which would not be to the detriment of the employment of Australians. In such circumstances we would need to take less from the United States. That country could afford such an arrangement because it has had in its favour a 2 to 1 balance of trade with Australia for many, many years. The same thing applies to the United Kingdom. 
These matters must be taken into consideration when we talk about trade. Firstly, we must practise what we preach and try to get those to whom we sell goods to buy more from us if they have a favourable trade balance with us. In respect of imports from low wage countries we must always protect Australian industries particularly from unemployment, and in addition those amenities I mentioned, social and industrial. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Progress reported. 
In speaking to the estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department I shall refer specifically to some aspects of the television industry. At the inception of television 15 years ago the Government of that time made  a  promise to give us television that is predominantly Australian in every phase  of  programming. This promise is clearly contained in section 114(1) of the Broadcasting and Television Act which states: 
The Commission and the licensees shall, as far as possible, use the services of Australians in the production and presentation of broadcasting and television programmes. 
The Postmaster-General in 1956,  Mr Charles  Davidson - now  Sir Charles  Davidson - when introducing the Act left no doubt about the Government's intentions. I quote from Hansard of 10th May 1956 at page 1963.  Mr Davidson  said: 
Although I am prepared to concede to Opposition members that they are sincere in their desire to develop the use of Australian artists and Australian television programmes generally, I point out very definitely that no one on this side of the chamber- 
That meant the Government side, of course -   . . will bow to anyone else in his realisation of the potentialities of television, and in his determination to use those potentialities to the utmost extent for the development of Australian art and culture. Let that point be understood immediately. 
Later on in the same speech  Mr Davidson  went on to say: 
The importation of American productions cannot be allowed to continue to the detriment of Australian production. 
In view of those statements a keen disappointment and sense of frustration must bc felt about what has actually happened, because the importation of foreign programmes is still continuing at a rate which is very much to the detriment of Australian productions. Television should stimulate among Australians a consciousness of national identity and a pride in their nation. Instead we find the vast majority of programmes typify American or British attitudes and institutions, their manners and customs, their traditions and heroes and, of course, their manner of speech and in general their way of life. 
A new settler in Australia would be utterly confused about the country he intends to make his home. His television set shows him California, other parts of the United States, London and other parts of the United Kingdom. There would be very few programmes to enlighten him about the character, personality, way of life and culture of the Australian people. No other country has been prepared to tolerate such a massive assault on its own cultures. The United State of America, 
Great Britain and Canada have all ensured that their television programmes reflect, comment on and advance their own identities. Very few foreign programmes appear on American television screens. Britain in practice limits the imported shows to approximately 12.5 per cent of its total content. Canada has recently specified that 50 per cent of the programmes shown in prime viewing time - that is evening viewing - must be of Canadian origin. Australia, more than any other country, should be using television to propagate its own personality. It is still a young nation with a sizable intake of new settlers, most of whom are eager to become good Australian citizens. I submit that they would find it most difficult to ascertain any idea of the Australian culture or the Australian way of life by watching television, which is to say the least a sad commentary on the present state of the television industry. 
The Australian public has amply demonstrated that it likes to watch and wants to watch Australian produced programmes. For example, 13 of the 26 top rating programmes in 1969 were made in Australia. The two top shows were 'Homicide' and Division 4', which are written and produced by Australians. Incidentally one of the least successful of the Australian produced dramas was 'Riptide', which has ceased production. I submit that 'Riptide' tended to fail because it was written not by Australians but by British writers who were not familiar with Australian contemporary conditions. That is true also of two other comparative failures, namely, 'Good Morning,  Mr Doubleday'  and 'Joan and Leslie.' The programme 'Good Morning,  Mr Doubleday'  attempted to use American scripts adapted to an Australian setting. The programme 'Joan and Leslie' had a similar lack of success with adapted British scripts. The failure of those 3 programmes assuredly confirms that the Australian public prefers programmes which are completely and authentically Australian. 
Australia has produced many actors, writers and variety artists who have enjoyed international repute. To put it more simply, there is no evidence of a lack of creative ability in our community, yet it is still argued in some quarters that it is impossible to produce more and better programmes of Australian content because we do not have the talent to support them. 
This argument is ridiculous. The truth is that our local talents are frustrated because Australian actors and writers are given very few opportunities to express or develop their own talents. That has resulted in some of our best writers and actors settling in Britain, where their talents are fully exploited by the industry in that country. 

 Mr Lucock, in concluding my remarks I would like to say that I find it most difficult to understand why some television stations persist in bringing persons from overseas to compere variety shows, some of which contain interviews with prominent people. Let me cite several Australian television personalities whom I submit compare more than favourably with the importations in the field of entertainment. I mention them in alphabetical order. T cite Barry Crocker, Brian Henderson, Bobby Limb, Joe Martin. Rex Mossop, Bert Newton, Bob Rogers and, as an interviewer. Miss Bobo Faulkner. Queensland, South Australia. Western Australia and Tasmania probably possess television personalities of similar ability and skill to those I have mentioned from New South Wales and Victoria. I do not for one moment suggest that all Australian television productions are perfect, but 1 do submit that many of them are of 'A' class quality. Making an all round suggestion, I believe that Australian productions are very worthy of every support and encouragement. 
Finally, I should like to congratulate the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television section for its presentation of the programmes 'This Day Tonight' and 'Four Corners'. Both of those programmes have at times been criticised by members of this Parliament as being politically biased. I believe that that is a lot of nonsense. There have been occasions on which I have disagreed with the views expressed and the method of expressing them on those 2 programmes, but I hope the day will never come when programmes of this nature are dominated by political parties. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr Speaker.  I understand that in accordance with the procedures and traditions of this House it is improper to criticise adversely judges for any decisions which may be handed down by them. If this is correct, I draw your attention to the fact that the Prime Minister, the Acting Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Minister for Labour and National Service have constantly criticised judges of the Arbitration Commission because of their decision in granting the last 6 per cent increase in wages which the Ministers I have mentioned claim is mainly responsible for the existing state of inflation. Is it a fact that every judge sitting on the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission must consider 2 issues; firstly, the economic consequences of his decision and secondly, the public interest? I might add that practically every judge and Conciliation Commissioner is an appointee of successive Liberal-Country Party governments. 
I was very surprised indeed to hear the remarks of the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  in relation to the part that the Opposition played at the outbreak of World War II. I think that these remarks should be answered fully. If one studies the history of Australia's attitude in World War II one will readily see that the LiberalCountry Party Government was sacked because of its inability to carry on the war effort. 
It was sacked by 2 Independent members for not carrying on its duties. In addition the Government left us with no arms at all. It left us with Wirraway fighting planes which were up against the modern Japanese Zero planes. The young people were butchered in New Guinea and other places. It was John Curtin who brought Australia on to a full war footing after the mismanagement and bad treatment by his predecessor,  Sir Arthur  Fadden, and before him, Bob Menzies. One can readily see that people are very thankful we had the Labor Party leader, John Curtin, to manage Australia's affairs. Talking about the way we were armed at the time reminds me of an incident that occurred when there were no rifles in Australia to go around and the soldiers received wooden rifles. A sentry was on duty one night at one of the camps. He had a wooden rifle. When somebody approached in the middle of the night the chap on sentry duty said: Halt! Who goes there?' He received no reply. He said again: 'Halt! Who goes there?' Again he received no reply. So he said: 'Halt, or I will fill you full of white ants'. This was exactly the position in World War II. 
One can readily see that the LiberalCountry Party Government left Australia undefended. The people of Australia looked to John Curtin, and they put him into office in 1943 with a record majority. The honourable member for North  Sydney  said that the Labor Party was not willing to do its share. His speech can be put aside. 
I should like to comment upon a statement reported to have been made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  overseas when he was looking for support for India against Pakistan by putting pressure on Pakistan. My personal sympathies are definitely with India, but I  think that diplomatically it was the most stupid statement that I have heard from any leader of any country. The Prime Minister should not have entered into this field and should not have taken one side or the other. World leaders such as  President  Nixon and  Mr Heath  will not take sides in this dispute and will not make any statements in regard to it. Yet we find our Prime Minister making statements and asking people to take sides and to put pressure on Pakistan. I wish it could be done, but it can be done only through the United Nations Organisation and with the support of every nation. One Prime Minister cannot get up and say that this should be done. We all know that this is a very delicate situation. 
 It was reported in the Press. Why did you not take it up in the Press if it was not true? You can always make a statement denying it. It was in the Press, as you well know. Why do you not get up and enlighten the Australian people if you say that what was in the Press was not true? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)-  Order! I ask the honourable member for Sydney to address his remarks to the Chair. 
In regard to Pakistan, 1 think that the speech made last night by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  was one of the best I have ever heard in the House in regard to an appeal for Pakistan- 
He speaks only about dried fruits. I was referring to the speech made by the honourable member for Hawker. I think the Government should take heed of his speech. Everybody is aware of the terrible situation which exists in East Pakistan today, caused by the friction between West Pakistan and East Pakistan. One can sec millions of refugees there. I think that the amount of $54m in aid that Australia has given is too paltry to mention. It should be at least SI Om, as the Opposition has been advocating for some time. I was not listed to speak and I rose in this debate only to answer the remarks on this matter made by the honourable member for North Sydney. 

 Mr GRAHAM (North Sydney)-  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! Does the honourable member for North Sydney claim to have been misrepresented? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member may not debate the matter. 

Order! The Minister is on his feet. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Following the savage increases in taxes on motorists in New South Wales,  his Liberal Party colleague,  Mr Morris,  the New South Wales Minister for Transport, entirely blames the Commonwealth Government by stating: 
The Commonwealth's attitude on roads  money  is typical of its attitude to the States. It generously looks after its own needs, sticks its bib into more and more State  responsibility,  then distributes the balance after  satisfying  its own needs to the Slates which have to provide all the basic community services. 
Is what  Mr Morris  said factual? 
Is the amendment seconded? 
ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Home Care Services - Senior Citizens' Centres  (Question No. 45021 
What sum has been (a) available and (b) granted for (i) home care services, (ii) senior citizens' centres and (iii) welfare officers at senior citizens' centres under the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969 to each of the Stales in ea-h of the last 2 years. 
What Stales have indicated preparedness to participate in each of these schemes. 

<graphic href="075131197112020_65_12.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="075131197112020_66_13.jpg"></graphic>

I think that people in New South Wales who know the electorate of Robertson well will know just how many senior people in our community go there to retire. 
They will know that it is made up of communities such as Gosford, Woy Woy, Ettalong, Umina, the Empire Bay area which includes Terrigal and Avoca Beach, Long Jetty, The Entrance, Toukley, Budgewoi, Wyong, and in the north near Newcastle, Swansea. When I went to see the Minister recently he showed me a report enclosed in reply to a letter that I had written to him showing that officially there were  14,000  pensioners living in my electorate. That does not include probably as least half as many people again who are not eligible for the pension but who are retired. I think it is pretty well recognised in this Parliament that the electorate of Robertson is the area in which there are more retired persons than in any other electorate in Australia. There are  21,000,  which is about one-third the number of electors, and I do not think any other electorate would match that number. 
There is not one senior citizens club, retired persons club or pensioners club in the whole of my electorate. When  1  say there is not a club I mean that there is not a centre where people can go and hold functions and activities as they can in  a  senior citizens club. There are clubs and branches of clubs which meet in church halls and in Progress Association halls but -there are no senior citizens centres as wc know them, that is a club that is open 7 days a week and which has a different type of activity every day such as hobbies, handicrafts, meetings, dances, parties, indoor bowls, television, libraries and so on. I will not go into the detail of what goes on in these centres or clubs as I think that honourable members will be aware of the nature of their activities. 
Shortly after 1 was elected to this House I went to my colleague, the honourable member for Barton, together with a number of constituents, people interested in senior citizens centres, including a councillor, on a tour of the electorate of Barton. We visited a number of these clubs. One was at Allawah, one at Rockdale and one at Kogarah. We were amazed to learn that despite the fact that the electorate of Barton has about half the number of pensioners and retired persons as has the electorate of Robertson there were 7 of these centres in the Barton electorate. In my electorate there are 21,000 retired people but there is not one senior citizens centre in operation. 
What disturbs me is this: When the money is made available the Government announces that it has a big scheme to cover home care services, senior citizens centres or social welfare workers and a lot of publicity is given to the announcement. The Government says: 'Look at what we are doing. We have provided a total of $l.Sm.' But the Government does not say 12 months later that only a small amount of that money has been used. I do not say that this is entirely the fault of the Government. The State governments have been extremely irresponsible in this matter. This money was made available on a matching grant basis. That is, the Commonwealth would provide one-third of the money, the States one-third and the community, made up of perhaps Service organisations, shire councils, senior citizens and pensioners themselves, would make up the balance, the other one-third. 
I have referred mainly to my own State of New South Wales. The New South Wales Premier.  Mr Askin,  did not accept the Commonwealth offer until just prior to the election held this year and therefore none of that money was expended in the first year, 1969-70. The money was just not used, and so the advantage was lost. After the election he took up the offer. He stated that he would accept the Commonwealth offer but he would not agree to a matching grant. This meant that the rest of the community then had to provide two-thirds of the money. But even worse than this is the fact that of the $90,000 made available for senior citizens centres and the $40,000 made available for social workers, practically none has been used. The Commonwealth has a responsibility, in my view, to take some initiative in this field. If the States will not get off their backsides and do something about it there is nothing to stop the Commonwealth sending its officers into these areas where it knows there is a dire need for these centres. 
I have spoken with the Minister for Social Services time and time again. That Minister recognises the very great need for the provision of these centres in the electorate of Robertson. I am not here today making a parochial speech on behalf of my electorate. There is a desperate need for these centres. When the money is available and the States will not get off their backsides and do something about it it is up to the Government to step in and take action. It is of no use saying 'Well, we have made the money available but the States have not done anything about it'. That is not good enough. This Government should show some initiative by sending into these areas departmental officers who could then say: 'We could do with a centre here and we could do with a centre there'. 1 could easily do with 14 of these centres in my electorate. Every one of those towns I mentioned earlier is entitled to have one of these centres. 
I would now like to refer to the sort of frustration that I have experienced in this matter. Immediately after I was elected to this House I called a public meeting and explained to the people that there was a desperate need to provide these centres. I have campaigned on this; I have been to and spoken at umpteen Apex and Rotary club meetings. I have also been to the Gosford and Wyong shire councils in regard to this matter. I have attended luncheons and dinners at which I have pleaded with and begged people to become involved. There are 2 groups in this community which have substantial amounts of money available to meet their proportion of a matching grant. I will deal with one in particular. It is the Brisbane Waters Senior Citizens' Club. The  president  is a gentleman by the name of Alex Clark. The club is quite a dynamic one. lt has about 450 members. It holds weekly meetings at which never fewer than 250 attend. The last time J spoke to  Mr Clark  the Club had abo it $6,500 or $7,000 in its building fund. This is not money which has been obtained from Service organisations. This is money that this Club has raised through lucky envelope competitions and card afternoons. Unfortunately there is now an impasse between the Club and the local council. 
I had reached the stage where I had an agreement with the local council that it would go ahead and provide land for this Club. When the land was made available we would have been able to approach the State Government which in turn could approach the Commonwealth, thereby attracting the grant. By attending, dinners and luncheons with councillors I convinced them, after showing a film provided by the New South Wales Council on Aid for Senior Citizens' Centres, of the need for these centres, and they all agreed with me. The matter was reported in the local paper. However, just after this there was a council election and 8 of the 9 councillors were removed from office. This meant that only one councillor in the Gosford Shire Council had been in the previous Council. 
So 1 had to start all over again. I had a dinner with these new councillors not so long ago and I stressed the need at least to proceed wilh the setting aside of land for the Brisbane Waters Senior Citizens Club. Later on I went to the Wyong Shire Council and showed the film at the Shire's Council Chambers. That Council agreed that the Clubs were necessary. The Council agreed thai it was necessary to build 5 of these clubs, one in The Entrance-Long Jetty area, one in Toukley, one in Budgewoi and one in Wyong. However, another election was held and the council was removed from office almost in toto. Not one member of the previous council was returned to office. 
There is a limited amount that a Federal member can do. In order that we might be able to utilise the money that has been made available by the Commonwealth I ask the Minister for his assistance and the assistance of his Department in sending departmental officers to the electorate of Robertson so that they may sit down and have a talk with the Slate Parliamentary representative, the members of the Gosford and Wyong shire councils, the members of the community service clubs and also the pensioner and senior citizens organisations, so that we can get a programme under way. 1 point out also that there is provision in this Act for social welfare officers. In 1969-70 the Commonwealth made available $60,000 for social welfare workers. I think 1 am correct in saying that that amount of $60,000 was a matching grant with the local community. 1 do not want honourable members to think that it required a matching grant from the State. That amount of $60,000 was made available for the State of New South Wales for social welfare workers but not one cent of it has been used. In 1970-71 the amount for this purpose was reduced to $40,000 but not one cent of it was used. I find it quite incredible, living in a community such as the one in which I live where there is so much social need, so much deprivation, so many underprivileged people and so many pensioners that $100,000 for social workers should go begging with nobody bothering to do anything about it. If the initiative does not come from the community it should come from the Commonwealth Government. 

Order! The honourable member will address the Chair. 
Proposals for the long term reconstruction of the industry are under consideration and it is essential that these be given urgent attention so that a suitable reconstruction programme wll be available to the industry at the earliest opportunity. 
The proposals include the introduction of a tree  removal compensation scheme aimed at achieving a reduction in the production level of canning deciduous frails to known market outlets, with some margin for growth. The reconstruction of fruitgrowers" debts, where such action can be shown to be desirable, in order to maintain the growers' viability; the redevelopment of orchards to enable growers to adjust their varietal plantings to those for which a satisfactory market exists; 
What assistance is this Government prepared to give in regard to that? We on this side of the Houe have not heard Government supporters say any more than what is referred to in the narrow confines of the Bill. We have not heard anybody as yet from the Government side - 1 hope and sincerely trust that the Minister for Primary Industry will do so in concluding the debate - spell out something that ought to be done in the long term future of the industry. Let us not end this debate with the belief that this matter will become a hardy annual with a growing amount of assistance that is rendered each year from taxpayers' money to the industry so that it can crawl or fall into the next year. What I am suggesting is that the Minister take advantage of the advice of the experts he mentioned a few moments ago by way of interjection. He has the experts at his disposal. He has the whole of his Department, almost an empire of advisers. Let us find out what they have in mind. Let the Minister tell this House what he has in mind, having drawn on this reservoir of knowledge and expertise that he has available to him. These men are knowledgable and expert and I only hope that the Government will act on the very good advice that they give from time to time instead of considering that such advice should be used only in the narrowest of political terms, as we have seen in the measure that was the subject of a ministerial statement a while ago in this place. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, because other honourable members want to enter this debate and because the Government probably will want to bring it to an end during the course of the night and restrict the last 2 speakers, I will conclude on the note that the amendment is worthy of the support of members on the Government side. We on this side of the House would be failing in our duty if this amount of money was just appropriated without any question and without any rhyme or reason from the government. The people have a right to know the facts, and we have a right to know. If we are questioned on this matter we should be able to answer such questions with knowledge and proper understanding. 
I wish to move the following amendment to the motion: 
That all words after 'opinion' be omitted with the view to inserting the following words in' place thereof - 'that the recommendations of the Committee should be carried out'. 
I want to make it perfectly clear, as is apparent from the amendment I have moved, that T fully support the findings and recommendations of the Privileges Committee. I stress that I would not support any punitive action being taken against any person adjudged to have committed a breach of privilege. Tn 1955, in the Browne and Fitzpatrick case, despite the fact that I agreed with the finding of the Privileges Committee, I was one of the 
II members of this House who voted against those 2 persons receiving a gaol sentence of 3 months, because I do not believe that this House should exercise the power to impose such a penalty. 
The report brought down by the Privileges Committee stems from the matter that I referred to the House on Tuesday, 7th September 1971, regarding an article by  Mr Alan  Reid which appeared in the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' of Friday, 27th 
August. It contained comment about the House being counted out for lack of a quorum on die previous day, Thursday, 26th August. At the outset I should like to mention that at the time of this incident  Mr Lucock,  the  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees - incidentally, he has occupied these official positions since 8th March 1961 - was in charge of the proceedings of the House, and the parliamentary officers on duty were the  Clerk  of the House,  Mr Turner,  the Second Assistant  Clerk, Mr Pettifer,  and the  Deputy  Sergeant at Arms,  Mr Piper.  Now I shall cite standing' order 47, which governs the proceedings of the House when a quorum is called. It states: 
When the attention of the  Speaker,  or of the  Chairman  of Committees, has been called to the fact that there is not a quorum of Members present, no Member shall leave the area within the seats allotted to ' Members until a quorum is present or 2 minutes have elapsed. 
Now I shall cite the relevant section of  Mr Reid's  article to which I took exception. It is as follows: 
A group of ALP Parliamentarians walked out of the Chamber when the quorum was called, well knowing that their action could cause the collapse of the House of Representatives. 
I shall proceed to substantiate what I said on 7th September, that this was a deliberate untruth, and I shall quote from the evidence submitted to the Privileges Committee. Firstly, I quote from the evidence of  Mr Turner  - and I remind the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  that  Mr Turner  was also under oath - which appears on pages 144 and 145 of the transcript of evidence. The relevant section reads: 
Chairman - Thank  you,  Mr  Turner. There is a point, a technical point. Alan Reid does not quote correctly standing order 47. I do not know whether you recall that he said that standing order 47 referred to members leaving the chamber. But in point of fact, the chamber is not mentioned, as you know. Standing order 47 simply states that no member shall leave the area within the seats allotted to members until a quorum is present or 2 minutes have elapsed. This is only a technicality, I suppose, yet it is possible that a member or members might have been in, say, some part of the Speaker's gallery behind  Mr Duthie,  for example, or behind  Mr Fox,  and have gone out through the doors. Strictly, under standing order 47, they would have been entitled to leave, would they not, if they had not already, been in the seats reserved for members? 

 Deputy was aware, or was the Chair aware, of anyone having left the Chamber after  Mr Gun  had called for the quorum. 
Does the honourable member for Diamond Valley want any more than that? lt continues: 
It is, I think, a fairly well established practice that when a quorum is called any member who is sitting in the public galleries, downstairs, the diplomatic galleries, the Speaker's gallery, the officer seats, or perhaps even in the attendants' box is not counted. But if he were to get up and take himself outside those seats, he would be counted; . . . 
Let me quote from what the Second  Clerk  Assistant,  Mr Pettifer,  said, and, as I again remind the honourable member for Diamond Valley, he was also under oath. 
The honourable member emphasised the fact that '  Mr Reid  was under oath. 1 am pointing out that these other witnesses were under oath. too. The following is a section of  Mr Pettifer's  evidence: 
Chairman - 1 know that in the ordinary course of events - it is part of your normal function at the table - that while the quorum bells are ringing you are counting the numbers, but would you, as part of that operation, be keeping half an eye on the doors? Would you have noticed if any members had gone out. as well as come in? 

 Mr Pettifer That is so,  Mr Chairman.  We keep an ey,e on members who might tend to move outside the chamber, from the area in which members are normally seated. For instance. I noticed  Mr Uren  rise from his seat on the front bench and make towards the Opposition main corridor. 
I thought he was going out, but he stopped when he got towards the final row of seats and came back again. I saw no members leave the area allotted to members. In talking the matter over with the  Clerk,  he agreed that he saw no members leaving the chamber on his side. I think it is worthwhile,  Sir, to  note the wording of the newspaper article. 
Let me quote further from pages 174 and 175 of the transcript of evidence in regard to what  Mr Lucock  said. The honourable member for Diamond Valley should note that  Mr Lucock  was under oath also. The transcript states: 

 Chairman - After  Dr Gun  had called the quorum and during the period of just over 2 minutes that elapsed before the doors were locked did you notice any members from either side of the House leaving the chamber? 

 Mr Fox moved about the chamber, but no one actually left the chamber- not that I  was aware of. 
Chairman - When you are in the Chair, do you find that normally you can keep an eye on all the various entrances and exits? 
Chairman - Would you say that it would be extremely unlikely that any members left the chamber during the period in question? 
Chairman  - Can you say positively that no members walked out of the chamber? 
Let us look at what  Mr Piper,  the  Deputy  Serjeant-at-Arms had to say. This gentleman was under oath, too.  Mr Piper  said:  1 should sturt off by saying thai I did noi see anybody leave the chamber. 1 was very near to the member who called the quorum, at the back of the chamber. 1 can clearly remember several members being in that area when the bells were rung, but 1 must say 1 did not see anybody leave the chamber after the bells commenced to ring. 
It is interesting to note that  Mr Turnbull,  the Country Party Whip, also stressed that he did not see anybody leave the chamber.  Mr Turnbull  is a member of thc Committee.  Mr Reid  has not submitted one iota of evidence to substantiate his claim that a group of ALP parliamentarians walked out of the chamber when the quorum was called. In evidence he admitted that he was not in the House when the qurorum wai called. In an endeavour to justify the claim he mentioned  Mr Calwell  and  Mr Les  Irwin, each of whom admitted that he was not in the House at the time. The pertinent part of  Mr Calwell's  evidence is at page 66, of  Mr Irwin's  evidence at page 124.  Mr Irwin  has stated that he was 99 per cent sure that Bill Fulton had said that it was a walk out.  Mr Fulton  appeared before the Committee and denied that he had said any such thing. There was some interesting evidence tendered by  Mr David  Mcnicoll, the Editor:in-Chief of the 'Daily 
Telegraph'. I quote from page 185 of the report. This is roost interesting. In answer to a question  Mr McNicoll  said: 
I  must say, if  I  may, with great respect,  Mr 
Chairman, that our organisation in Sydney  has  been greatly disturbed and bewildered  at the  reports which are current in Sydney - that  the  Committee found  Mr Reid  not guilty and then  later decided that he was  to  be found guilty. Everybody - from our legal men and everybody -  is  quite bewildered and staggered  at  this  having  happened.  It  stems to us something which,  if it  eventually sees the light of day, as  I  have  no  doubt it will, must call for some explanation  and I  think that we, as a newspaper, deserve  an  explanation for this. 
The evidence was supposed to have been kept very secret until it was presented in the House, which was Thursday of last week. Nobody was supposed to give any information of any kind about the Committee's hearings.  Mr McNicoll,  of his own volition, said that he had received information from 3 sources. 
 1 do not know who they were. 1 shall nol make any accusations. But  Mr McNicoll,  without being asked the question, volunteered this information. Strange to relate,  Mr McNicoll  went on to say - these are his exact words - that he put more faith actually in  Mr Reid's  statement than he would in the findings of the Committee. I always thought that  Sir Frank  Packer had great influence in Sydney but I did not know that his influence extended to the Liberal Party in Canberra. 
I say without any fear or inhibition that I wonder what the recommendation of the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  would have been if the reporter involved in this matter represented the Communist Party newspaper 'Tribune'. I wonder what the recommendation would have been. I was quite surprised that the  Chairman  of 'the Privileges Committee, the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  whose casting vote was the one that was responsible for bringing down the findings and recommendations as set out in the Committee's report, has indicated that he intends to do nothing about the recommendations for which he voted and intends to vole in support of the Government. Yet, the vote on this matter will be a free one. 
I have always respected the views of my colleague, the honourable member for Eden 
Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser),  but I must say that, on this occasion, he did not touch much on what  Mr Reid  did. He quoted what had happened in the Browne and Fitzpatrick case. Our friend, the honourable member for Diamond Valley, spent half of his speech on a matter that was quite irrelevant. It had nothing whatever to do with the issue that was before the Privileges Committee. The honourable member said nothing about what  Mr Reid  had alleged. It is quite obvious that his allegation was a deliberate untruth. if  Mr McNicoll  has such faith in the integrity of  Mr Reid  and in what he writes, I would suggest that  Mr Reid  should adopt the pseudonym of 'George Washington' and possibly, iri the future, everyone will believe what he says. But, on this occasion, no doubt exists, as has been mentioned already by my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor),  that  Mr Reid's  article is a reflection on the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock);  on  Mr Turner,  the Clerk; and on  Mr Pettifer, Clerk  Assistant. Also it is a reflection on every member in this House because that article was a deliberate untruth. 
As I mentioned before, the honourable member for Lyne has occupied his office for 10 years. He is meticulous to see that nobody leaves the 'chamber when attention is directed to the state of the House. In common with you, '  Mr Corbett,  I ' am a  deputy chairman  of committees. Our own duty when occupying the Chair- and this is the advice that we receive from the House officers at the table - is that no member should leave the' House when attention is directed to the state of the House and a count takes place. I say now that it is impossible for any member to leave the House and to avoid notice of the 2 pairs of eyes at the table and the eyes of the occupant of the chair. I repeat that I am very surprised indeed that the  Chairman  of the Privileges Committee whose casting vote was responsible for the findings and recommendations that are before the House now has altered his mind, will not vote for the recommendations of the Committee but intends to suport the motion moved by the Leader of the House. 

 Mr DRURY (Ryan)-  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth humbly showeth: 
That the immediate prospect for nearly 70 million Bengalis in Bangla Desh and 9 million refugees in the northeast region of India is of mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
Your petititioners most humbly pray that: 
The Australian Government immediately provide $10,000,000 in direct aid to refugees now in ladia and commit itself to a continuing aid programme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I should like to endorse the eloquent remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  in regard to the service of  Mr Turner  in this House over many years. The Leader of the Opposition mentioned - -quite rightly so - that probably all of us have been to see  Mr Turner  in his office and have come away wiser men. Probably we should have gone more often. However, being one of the  deputy  chairmen, I appreciate the fact that  Mr Turner  has always exhibited complete non-partisanship in his position. When one is in the Chair, of course it is an onerous job. We have to keep our eyes on fellows like Winton Turnbull and others in the House to see that they do not play up. However, I can assure you  Mr Speaker,  that on all occasions, irrespective of who breaks a standing order,  Mr Turner  has always advised the occupant of the Chair of the standing order, whether he be a Government member or a member of the Opposition. 
Most of the remarks that I should have liked to have made have already been said, but I heartily congratulate  Mr Norman 
Parkes on his accession to the throne as  Clerk  of the House to succeed  Mr Turner  because Norman also has given excellent guidance to all those in the Chair. He is completely non-partisan. Finally, I wish Alan Turner and  Mrs Turner  the very best in their years of retirement. 
There is no substance in the point of order. 
It is well known that a comparatively short time ago there was a surplus of 300,000 tons of butter in Europe. This in itself inhibited the marketing of Australian dairy produce. As a consequence, with the support of the Government, the industry took positive action to establish plants in South East Asia in order to create new markets and to sponsor the sale of dairy produce in an effective manner. Because of the success that has been attained in this direction we are tonight enacting legislation to assist financially the further expansion of this very necessary work. I believe that the legislation is timely. It is in the best interests of the industry and it will achieve results in the right direction. It is very unfortunate that we have criticism of what is being done to assist primary industry, and criticism that reflects on primary industry itself in matters of export marketing. It is well known that in the export field there have been extreme difficulties in recent years. In order to cope with those difficulties it is very necessary that we devise every means within our power to ensure that this country is able to gain an expansion of markets in any field that is open to it. This is the real purpose of this legislation. 
I congratulate the Minister and the Government on what has been done to produce through this legislation a means of providing effective financial support for the expansion of the marketing of butter and other dairy produce, particularly in South East Asia. We have a situation in which the dairy industry can hope for some improvement in terms of both financial return and the scope of sales in the immediate future. This is a real consequence not only of Australia finding the need to go into specialist fields to produce commodities acceptable to new markets but also of the industry on a world wide basis finding a need to meet these periods of change and to gear itself to cope with the overall situation. I am sure that whilst there is a basis for some real heart to come into this industry in the immediate future we must still proceed with a degree of caution and that caution must, of course, be related to the ultimate effect of the European Economic Community. 
We are not yet able to predict with certainty what the effect of the EEC will be on the sales of dairy produce. It is fair to assume that some of the support measures that will occur as well as some of the control measures in Europe could give the Australian dairy farmer an added opportunity, but at this stage this is surmise and for that reason this measure is important. It is equally important that we bear in mind the decision of the Austraiian Dairy Industry Council to have a  2-price  quota plan implemented if the need arises. At the moment we have a voluntary system of restraint. This is all-important despite what has been said in this debate about the availability of markets and the prospects for sales: It would be folly for us to rush in and encourage over-production in the dairying industry. I sound that word of warning in the minutes remaining to me in this debate this evening. 
We have seen in other industries the dire effects of over-production at a time when there has been some temporary opportunities for sales. The honourable member for Dawson knows full well the disastrous consequences of over-production, yet today he advocated, as did the honourable member for Riverina, that we should be encouraging production in order to utilise opportunities. But let us have positive proof that these opportunities exist and that we can market to an extent that would warrant gearing up and sponsoring increased production in this country. 
The real motive of this legislation is to assist to dispose of our existing produce and it is part and parcel of a very serious attempt by the industry itself to find a reasonable level of production and relate that to the possibilities of realisations on the overseas markets. I believe that this is a correct approach. I trust that there will not be misunderstandings that could well come from some of the utterances we have heard in this debate. 
The matter that I wish to raise tonight stems from a most unusual circumstance. Last Saturday morning I called in at the local hotel and was immediately confronted with an irate constituent who said that he was disgusted with the methods used by this Government in bestowing knighthoods on various citizens in the community, claiming that it was most unfair, unjust and discriminatory. This chap's name is Oscar - I shall not mention his surname - but we all call him Ocker'. He told me that he had called at the local post office and asked for an application form for a knighthood. He was told that no such forms were available. But the postal clerk told him that if he seriously desired to become a knight then he should first join the Liberal Party or the Australian Country Party. 
Ocker went on to say that he is a man of great civic pride. His main endeavours have been devoted to the perpetual fight against pollution. He has done everything possible in keeping the city clean. He works on the local council garbage truck, and in this vocation he has also collected and buried many dead cats and dogs. Ocker told me that he is not married but he is living with a sheila, and he asked me would this debar him from getting a knighthood.  1  said: 'No, definitely not, because if  Sir Frank  Packer can get one then anyone Can'. It has been said by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  and quite rightly so, that shortly we will have more knights than days. It is interesting to note that since the election of the Menzies-Fadden Government up until the present time no fewer than 23 LiberalCountry Party members of the House of Representatives and 8 senators have received knighthoods. In addition, 3 lady senators have been made dames. I shall read the list in alphabetical order to show that I am not prejudiced one way or another and, Heaven forgive me, I will not use the titles. 
The list reads: Charles Adermann, William Aston, Howard Beale, John Cramer, Charles Davidson, Alex Downer, Arthur Fadden, Allan Fairhall, Josiah Francis, Paul Hasluck - no man is more overworked than  His Excellency  the Governor-General who has sworn in and sworn at more Ministers than any other Governor-General in the history of Australia - Eric Harrison, Alan Hulme, Wilfrid Kent Hughes, Phillip McBride, John McEwen, Robert Menzies, Hubert Opperman, Earle Page, Percy Spender, Winton Turnbull, Thomas White, Keith Wilson, and from the Senate, Kenneth Anderson, Walter Cooper, Magnus Cormack, Denham Henty. Alister McMullin, Neil O'Sullivan, Shane Paltridge, William Spooner, John Spicer and Dames Nancy Buttfield, Annabelle Rankin and Ivy Wedgwood. Richard Casey was made baron - spelt b-a-r-o-n - in 1960. Are you aware,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that this Parliament contains 5 knights in the House of Representatives - Charles Adermann, William Aston, John Cramer, Alan Hulme and Winton Turnbull - and 2 knights - Kenneth Anderson and Magnus Cormack - and Dame Nancy Buttfield in the Senate? This is a record number of semi-blueblooded members and senators since Federation - 8 altogether in the Parliament. 
That brings me back to my opening remarks. I fully support the view of Ocker. The allocation of knighthoods is indeed discriminatory and in many instances is used as a political expedient. It is often used to gain support for the Liberal Party and Country Party from newspaper proprietors such as  Sir Frank  Packer who first sold his services to the Liberal-Country Party Government for a knighthood and has now emerged as the most powerful man in the Liberal Party.  His  power is so immense that he was responsible for the sacking of the previous Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  Finally, let me put this to you,  Mr Deputy  Speaker: The practice of bestowing knighthoods is a method of creating class distinction and it should be abolished. We should grow up and adopt the modern trends in society. The United States of America, the richest and most powerful nation in the world, seems to have thrived over the years by using  Mr and Mrs. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the honourable gentleman's tenacity in upholding the law in every minute detail I ask him why, when he was AttorneyGeneral, he deliberately broke the law himself and why he failed to take action against the Prime Minister or any other Minister or member or even you,  Mr Speaker,  in regard to section 145 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, which reads: 
A candidate shall not, in respect of any candidature, incur or authorise electoral expenses exceeding is the aggregate - 
. . . 
in the case of a House of Representatives election - Two hundred and fifty pounds. 
Finally I ask: Is not this a case of every member of this House, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself, deliberately flouting the law? 

Order! I ask the honourable gentleman to refer occasionally to the Bill 
I think the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said that tariffs are used in making a plan for the economy of a nation. This is absolutely 100 per cent true in every possible way. As I said, the home market is the best. Excessive profits through protection are not in the best interests of this nation. For a good few years I have been a great advocate of a close examination in detail of all aspects of tariff protection. I think members of the Opposition will agree with me that there are some cases where tariff protection is too high. It is a very intricate subject and it is very difficult to get the right balance. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member for Chifley is listed to speak next and anything he has to say in reply to the honourable member for Mallee can be said then. 
Chifley, of course, thought this was an opportunity to interfere with my speech or throw me off the track. I suppose I have experienced as many interjections during my speeches as any man in the Parliament in the last 25 years. 
Sitting suspended! from  5.49  to  8  p.m. 
I present the  following  petition: 
To the Honourable (he  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on December 10, 1948, Australia signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate  -  30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, special, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 10 per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Governmentto increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public inquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The honourable member for Deakin will not reflect on an honourable member who has called for a quorum under the Standing Orders. 
They will have a direct impact in increasing employment and will certainly permit the carrying out of additional worthwhile public works projects particularly in the urban areas including hospitals, schools and water supply. 
If the honourable member for Kingston had bothered to listen to the Prime Minister's speech he would have been aware of that. Throughout his speech the matters that he presented as facts were inaccurate. Let us look at what happened. What did South Australia do with (his $4.3 9m? It spent only $400,000 on education, and the Labor Government in Western Australia out of its grant of $2. 99m spent nil on education. If that is the sort of policy on education that the honourable member for Kingston wants adopted in the national sphere - this petty, penny-pinching policy that is adopted in the 2 States controlled by Labor governments - then I do not want to see a Labor government in the Federal sphere, and neither would most of the Australian people, and that will be proven when we go to the election at the end of the year. 
We were probably all taken unawares when the Prime Minister announced to the House on 9th December last that the Commonwealth Government would make a grant of $20m for additional capital expenditure by the States on government schools and would increase per capita grants to the independent schools- 
If Labor policies came into effect there would be only one banking corporation, one airline, and certainly under Labor's policies the independent school system would soon disappear. Children would go to a government school and like it. I well remember when I was a pupil at a State school in Melbourne. Unfortunately, we had a Labor government in Victoria at that time. The depression was on and my parents were not in a position to send me to an independent school, although later, at considerable sacrifice, they did so. I wanted to attend either of 2 high schools which a number of my friends were attending and which were situated within a reasonable distance of my home. But I was told by the bureaucrats of that day that I could not go to either of these high schools. As I lived in a certain area I was zoned - I was told - and I must attend a central school, as it was then called. So. like it or not, attend the central school I did, until my parents, at considerable sacrifice, were able to send me to an inde pendent school. It is my great fear that, if the Labor Parry came to power and introduced its policy on independent schools, and these schools were to fade away as surely they would under a Labor government, children would be forced to go to the schools which the bureaucrats dictated, with no choice for the individual. 
It has long been accepted in Australia that education should be free, although one could well ask why education should be singled out to be free and not medical help, dentistry and other essentials. But to say that it is free is not correct. A more correct version would be to say that education is paid for by the taxpayers, irrespective of whether they have children or not. I do not argue with this. But if education is to be free, it should be free to all Australian children as a right, irrespective of the school of their choice, provided that the school maintains required standards and the exercising of that choice does not cost the taxpayer more than if the child were educated at a government school. At the present time only about 75 per cent of children are educated at government schools and something like 25 per cent are, by their parents' choice, educated at other schools. In other words, government schools have the facilities to cater for only three-quarters of the number of school children in this country. 
For the Government to try to provide facilities for all children at government schools would place an impossible, burden on the taxpayer. So much money would need to be channelled to education that social services, defence and other facets of government would go by the board. So it is cheaper for the Government and the taxpayer to continue to subsidise the independent school system. But, as the Prime Minister pointed out in this House on 9th December, independent and church schools are finding increasing difficulties in their efforts to become and remain viable. Teachers salaries have increased considerably and so have other costs. Due to these rising costs this increase in the per capita grant really only restores the position to what it was when the per capita grants were first introduced by this Government several years ago. 
The Victorian Minister for Education stated in the Victorian Parliament that it costs the State $333 a year to educate a pupil at primary level and $607 to educate a pupil at secondary level. So parents of children attending government primary schools have fees of $333 paid by the Government for their children, and parents of children attending government secondary schools have fees of $607 paid. But if we add together the per capita grant of the Commonwealth and the grant of the State Government in Victoria we find that children attending independent schools have fees paid by the Government of only $90 at primary level and $108 at secondary level. Surely all Australian children should be treated equally. They are all Australians and their parents are all taxpayers. Provided that children go to a school of a required standard they should be entitled to equal assistance from the Government for the cost of their education. If their parents choose to send them to a school which offers something extra, then that is their choice and they should pay any additional fees involved over and above what the cost would be to the Government of educating these children in a government school. This would be the fairest possible system and one which I believe we should be working towards. It would treat every child equally, it would retain our dual system of education and it would give parents the choice of where their children were educated. It would cost the taxpayer no more than if all children were compulsorily educated in government schools. 
There is no doubt that added costs and higher fees are forcing children to move from independent schools into the government schools. In 1965, 26.6 per cent of Victorian children were educated at independent schools. The number had dropped in 1971 to only 24.3 per cent. As a result, government schools and hence the taxpayer - this apparently would please the honourable member for Bendigo - have been required to cater for an extra 2.3 per cent of the school population. We hear much from the Opposition to the effect that the Government system of per capita grants gives aid to wealthy schools. This just shows how little honourable members opposite know of the independent school system. What is a wealthy school? Apparently the Opposition believes that any school which has playing fields, a swimming pool or a gymnasium is a wealthy school. Nothing could be further from the truth. These facilities have probably been put in the school to improve its standards as a result of the contributions of parents and old boys or mothers working in the tuckshop and running various fund raising functions. Surely this kind of parent contribution should be encouraged, not criticised or denigrated as it so often is by the Opposition. This type of parent participation is, of course, not confined to independent schools. Parents with children at state schools also contribute and work to improve the standard of the school. I repeat, this parent participation should be applauded, irrespective of what school it occurs in. 
One state school in my electorate has a number of tennis courts which have been constructed by the efforts of parents. Should we pull these facilities to pieces? One state school in my former electorate had a swimming pool. But this does not make them wealthy schools. The only school which, in my book, could be called a wealthy school would be a school which had a large number of interest bearing investments bringing in funds to enable it to keep fees at a reasonable level. I know of no such independent school. Virtually the only source of income for independent schools is the fees they receive from parents, and these are rising steeply - so much so that many parents are finding it impossible, despite their sacrifice, to keep their children at these schools. That is the reason for the drop of 2.3 per cent in the number of children attending independent schools. Surely it would be wrong if fees of independent schools were to rise to such an extent that only the children of wealthy parents could attend these schools. But this is apparently what the Labor Party would like to see. It would be un-Australian and it would be class distinction at its worst, yet that is what the Labor Party's policy of selective assistance would cause. 
The mistake that the Labor Party makes is in thinking that the per capita grants are grants to the school. In fact they are actually grants to parents towards the cost of the fees. If these grants did not exist, the parents would be forced to pay that extra amount in added fees or to take their children away and send them to a government school. As I said before, perhaps that is exactly what the Labor Party wants. It is ridiculous to assume that all parents who send their children to independent and church schools are wealthy. Nothing could be further from the truth. It is certainly not true of the Catholic parish schools and it is not true of those who make great sacrifices to send their children to the larger church schools. At the larger church schools the fees for one child alone, would amount to something like $1,100 a year, yet by sending a child to such a school that parent, who is also a taxpayer, is saving the Government - on the figures of  Mr Lindsay  Thompson, the Victorian Minister for Education- $607. Surely the position we should be working towards - one realises that it cannot happen overnight - is the situation where each child is entitled to and allotted the $607 towards his education. If the parents want something extra then it is up to them to pay for that extra requirement. 
I am particularly concerned at the amendment proposed by the Opposition to the Bill. Not only is this a centralist device to hand over control of Australia's 10.000 schools to a new Canberra bureaucracy but also it is a Labor Party device to provide no Government assistance to independent schools. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has virtually said as much with his assertion that the proposed commission would consider government schools first. Obviously the Labor Government would see that there would be nothing left for the independent school system. But it is very difficult to find out exactly what the Labor Party's policy is in regard to education. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate says one thing; the Leader of the Opposition in this House  (Mr Whitlam)  then disowns  Senator Murphy's  interpretation; and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  the Labor Party's shadow Minister for Education, goes off on another tangent and calls for a dozen or more committees to be set up in the various States. So where do we stand? What can we say is Labor's policy in regard to education and independent schools? But one thing is certain: If Labor ever becomes the Government of this country - heaven help Australia if this ever occurs - the death knell will have been sounded for our dual system of education.  I  conclude my remarks by reading part of  a  letter which was sent today to all hon ourable members from Victoria by  Mrs Margaret  Gartland, the Secretary of the Parents and Friends Federation of Victoria.  Mrs Gartland  is a constituent of mine and she is a woman whom I hold in the highest esteem. The letter reads in part: 
The Federation is therefore launching a campaign for a new Education Act. This should be based on the fundamental right of parents to choose the kind of education their children should receive. It should provide for decentralisation of control of schools and much greater parent participation in the running of schools. 
I believe that the Parents and Friends Federation of Victoria has set out sound proposals in this letter and after listening to the various Opposition speakers today neither I nor the electors are quite sure what Labor's policy on education really is. We have heard talk of class from members of the Opposition. This seems to be the only thing they can think of; but one thing is certain and that is that under a Labor government a deep rift would be created in the community between those people whose children attend a government school and those whose children attend an independent schools. But even deeper, as my friend the honourable member for Diamond Valley pointed out, would be the rift created between Catholic independent schools and Protestant independent schools. All children in this country are born equal as Australians. They are all entitled, as of right, to the same opportunities and the same assistance from the Government towards their education. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a private member has to serve a period of 20 years or in seven Parliaments to qualify for a life gold pass and travel privileges. 
Is it also a fact that a Minister, the  President  or the  Speaker  has to serve a term of only 3 years in office to qualify for similar privileges. 
Will the Government consider a more equitable scheme such as that in the Parliament of New South Wales where one year's travel privileges are granted for each year of service with a minimum of 9 years' service before qualifying. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of theundersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many, thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease with the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry, into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="077131197203281_56_0.jpg"></graphic>

Who would not want to have a piece of that company? During the same period Ansett Industries increased its capital from $13m to $27.5m. That is not too bad for a company which honourable members opposite say is not getting a fair go. I think both the honourable member for Newcastle and the. honourable member for Adelaide mentioned the restriction that applies to activities in hotel ownership and other fields. They implied that if those restrictions were not applied TAA would greatly improve its operations. However, the position is that under section 19 of the Act TAA is not at all inhibited from expanding those; types of services. Buses are an example of this form of expansion. On page 16 of TAA's annual report for last year an enormous list of overseas agents is set out. TAA accepts bookings for Great Barrier Reef holidays. Do not honourable members opposite think that TAA would get some sort of commission from the hotels into which it books people, as well as getting the business of transporting them to the area? 
It is interesting also to note that Ansett Industries is diminishing its ownership of hotels. I agree that at one stage the Government rejected an application for ownership of hotels, but ownership of hotels would not help TAA one scrap. It is access to accommodation which is important. Unfortunately there is very little time available in this sort of debate but I would like to draw the attention of honourable members to information given by both airlines in respect of accommodation. I have here 2 pamphlets which I picked up this afternoon from the 2 airline offices concerned. Under the heading of 'Accommodation' the wording in each is precisely the same. It states: 
Whether for holiday or business requirements accommodation can be reserved by Ansett Airlines of Australia-- 
 TAA' can be substituted - anywhere in Australia or overseas. 
TAA is not inhibited in respect of accommodation. In spite of what the honourable member for Adelaide has said, the Government has positively assisted TAA. TAA conducts the aerial services to the Northern Territory. That is referred toon page. 11 of its latest report. What a shame it is that the honourable member for Adelaide does not read the report. He would be better served by doing that than reading from a newspaper report and rehashing it in Hansard. Most of it was quite irrelevant. TAA conducts services for the South Australian Department of Lands through the agency and help of governments. TAA carries out maintenance on Commonwealth aircraft and also for many aero clubs in Australia. In the remaining seconds of my time I would like to point out that on behalf of Qantas TAA operates a regional international service to Honiara, West Irian, and also operates to Timor. I know that because I have been to Timor on a TAA aircraft. 
I repeat that Ansett Industries is phasing out of hotels. Where possible Ansett is getting rid of his hotels. He does not think there is any advantage in owning hotels. TAA compared extremely well with Ansett Industries last year when it carried about 100,000 more passengers than Ansett excluding Papua New Guinea. Yet honourable members opposite say we are discriminating against TAA. Last year TAA received a subsidy of $453,000, while Anset Industries received $440,000. There is very little difference in the subsidy. TAA services the nation. It operates to Queensland and other outback areas. Ansett has withdrawn from those areas. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
MrDUTHIE (Wilmot) (9.6)- We have just heard from 2 South Australians who did not agree with each other. That is probably natural, because one of them is a Labor man and the other is a Liberal - and what a Liberal! The speech of my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  was excellent, well prepared and full of facts. The speech of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  was full of nothingness. The honourable member for Adelaide quoted the view of the present 2 airline system held by the manager of Trans-Australia Airlines. I would sooner take his word for it than that of the honourable member for Boothby. The urgency motion we are discussing is relevant, pertinent and important. It would not have been necessary if the Government had been protecting its own airline. One would expect a government to protect and encourage its own airline if it believed in it, but this Government does not believe in public enterprise as a way of life. Hence it discriminates against and restricts TAA. 
No private airline in the world has had the financial assistance and other assistance from a government that has been accorded to the Ansett airline. Ever since  Mr Ansett  established the open corridor to the office of  Sir Robert  Menzies in the 1950s Ansett Industries has enjoyed Government patronage. This patronage has been designed to stifle real competition and to restrict TAA's operations. Ever since the LiberalCountry Party coalition first took office in 
December 1949 TAA has been on the rack, fighting for its life to survive economically against an airline kept viable partly at least, by government assistance and encouragement. Obviously the Ansett airline is not a full-blooded private airline at all because the Government has rescued it time and time again in times of crisis. In fact, the Government would dearly love to kill off TAA because it is a government airline and this Government, deep down, despises public enterprise. Only the fear of the people's obvious reaction is preventing the Government from creating a one airline system for Australia, and that would be a private airline. 
No-one would take from  Sir Reginald  Ansett the credit for establishing Ansett Airways and building it to its present peak of performance. No-one would take from him credit for the initiative, drive and vision he has displayed since he entered the road and air transport systems back in the depression days of the 1930s. I know his story backwards because he operated originally from the town of Hamilton in Victoria where my people have lived for many years. I have no criticism at all of his airline. It is one of the finest airlines in the world and I travel with it often. It is a splendidly operated airline and its staff are professionals at their job. Let it be said once and for all that this is the general opinion of everyone on this side of the Parliament 
In this urgency motion we are condemning the Government because it is prepared to restrict and restrain a government commissioned airline in the face of pressures from a private airline in competition. We agree on the 2-airline policy but it has to be evenly and fairly balanced, or 'evenhanded' as our motion states. Further, we want to remove some of the frustrating restrictions imposed on TAA by this Government. They have not been imposed by Ansett. I do not blame  Sir Reginald  Ansett for getting where he is today by means of Government assistance. Good luck to him. But what a weak-kneed Government we have had under Menzies, under Holt, under Gorton and under McMahon that let him get away with the things he has got away with. This is what we are criticising. We believe that TAA should have similar rights and benefits because the private air line in this country has a great advantage, as has been pointed out, in the fields of road transport, television, the construction of buses and its diminishing hotel business. It has airline feeder services monopolising in Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia in particular. We believe that TAA should have similar rights and benefits. That is all we are saying. We say not that it should have move rights and benefits but that it should have the same. 
TAA should receive Government loans to provide hotels and motels for its tourist potential. TAA should be given the right to operate feeder services in Western Australia and Victoria. The Labor Government in Western Australia had better get off its tail and start to do something about this. The 1945 Act specifically states that only a State Premier can invite TAA to operate within a State. We have a Labor government in Western Australia, and what is it doing about getting TAA into the west? We have a Labor government in South Australia, also, and what is it doing about this situation? Further, why should not the government airline have the sole right to carry the mails of this nation which are at present shared between the 2 airlines? TAA last year received $2,191,392 on competitive routes for carrying mails but Ansett carries the mails in the 3 States in which it has feeder services operating in a mopoly situation. So overall it would receive more than TAA for the cartage of air mail. TAA has paid $12m into this Government's coffers in the last 5 years in taxation, and millions of dollars in interest payments on loans. 
This airline is a credit to those who founded it. It came into being in 1945. The 1945 Act created the company under the drive and initiative of the late Arthur Drakeford, Minister for Civil Aviation in the Chifley Government. The first aircraft of TAA went from Melbourne to Sydney on 9th September 1946, which was 19 days before I came into this Parliament. At that time TAA had one solitary aircraft. Today it has 53, many of which are the most modern in the world, At June last year the company had 1,149 flying staff comprising 268 captains, 238 first officers, 51 flight engineers and 532 air hostesses. That is a miracle in government enterprise which would equal anything anywhere in the world. I am proud of what TAA has done in spite of the restrictions and hindrances that have been placed on it. 
We speak in this Parliament with only limited information. Whereas TAA has to give a detailed balance sheet of its year's operations to this Parliament, as laid down under the original Act, its rival airline has no such obligation. The Parliament never receives a balance sheet of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. Nobody except its top executives and shareholders has any idea how its airline operations finish up each year. The accounts of the airline service are balanced with other Ansett enterprises. They are all mixed up together. The real facts of the airline operations are secret. How can a government assess accurately the expenditure or nature of its assistance to an airline which makes no public or parliamentary announcement of its balance sheet? Surely the Government must be working largely in the dark in assessing any sort of assistance to Ansett Airlines. Where public moneys are spent, where Government sponsorship is given, the full facts should be available to the people and the Parliament. Private enterprise cannot afford to be so private that no-one but the top men knows what is going on. 
The entry of Thomas Nationwide Transport to the scene has changed things also. The combined turnover of Thomas Nationwide Transport and Ansett from now on will be in excess of $300m a year. TNT has purchased 23) per cent of Ansett shares. It is generally assumed that TNT previously gave each of the airlines half of its business. It is natural to assume, therefore, that from now on all of TNT's business will be channelled to Ansett Airlines. In view of this boost to Ansett, TAA should be given the right to expand its existing freight operations or to negotiate wilh other freight forwarding agencies or companies such as Ipec Carriers, Brambles Transport Services and Kwikasair. It should be able to exercise its own business judgment in expanding freight operations. Finally, TAA's engineering services should be authorised to take in outside engineering work, either by contract or by tender, because its highly skilled labour and technical machinery are not used to full capacity. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope&gt;Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. The honourable gentleman is aware that I have made representations to him on several occasions on behalf of naval personnel seeking a discharge from the Navy prior to the expiration of the term for which they signed up. Family problems are the main reason submitted for seeking a discharge. I ask the honourable gentleman to give consideration to shortening the sign-up period and making more flexible the enlistment conditions. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  who has just resumed his seat said that the Opposition - and I am one of the Opposition to whom he referred - has said that ANZUS is useless. 
I am one of the Opposition that the honourable member referred to and I am in order in raising this point. The fact is that at no stage has any member of the Labor Party Opposition ever said that ANZUS is useless. We support it wholeheartedly. 
I intend to mention some matters relating to the Department of Social Services in regard to age and invalid pensions and the benefits which are provided. However, I feel compelled to remark on some of the debate that has evolved from the differences between the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  I think the Minister for Social Services is wrong when he stales that the policy of the Government now is the same as that followed by the Labor Government when  Senator McKenna  was Minister for Social Services. I spoke to  Senator McKenna  on an occasion in regard to this matter and it is true that those men on strike in a particular plant would not have received unemployment benefits. If benefits were paid, it would mean of course that the government of the time would be subsidising the strike. The decision was not meant to operate in this way: For example, if 2,000 employees who were engaged at a plant were intent on a strike, it would be simple for the unions to pull out 10 or 12 key men to go on strike from that plant and they would be denied unemployment benefits making it possible for the rest of the plant to receive unemployment benefits. That was Labor's idea to endeavour to defeat this possibility, when the scheme was implemented, of the government having to pay unemployment benefits to all men on strike. 
The scheme applied only to a particular plant. It did not apply in the case of the recent strike of State Electricity Commission workers in Victoria. For example, there were only 6 members of the Vehicle Builders Union employed at Yallourn on the maintenance of trucks and motor cars, etc., owned by the State Electricity Commission and naturally they were on strike with the other workers. They had no option but to go out with their colleagues. However, that does not mean to say that the men in the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation - in other industry - who are put out of work because of a strike at Yallourn should be penalised. That is a different thing altogether to the interpretation put on this decision by the previous Labor government. As I have already said - I impress this upon the Minister for Social Services - the interpretation was that only those working in one particular plant should be denied unemployment benefits. That was the idea of Labor policy at that particular time and it is altogether different from what the Minister is doing at the present time. 
I rose to speak on the grievance debate in regard to matters pertaining to social service benefits and, particularly, to the supplementary allowances which are provided. I point out to the Minister for Social Services that I believe what I have to say is of a constructive nature. As the Minister would be aware, the means test applied to the payment of a supplementary allowance has not been altered for several years. The means test, as it applies at present, is $2 a week supplementary allowance to a single pensioner paying rent, board or lodging. The means lest means that if they have other income exceeding $1 a week but which is less than  S3  a week, their supplementary allowance would be reduced accordingly. For example, if a person who had qualified for a supplementary pension had an income of $2.50 a week, he would receive only 50c a week in supplementary pension. 
As I have mentioned before, and as I will keep on mentioning until something is done about it, there is one section of invalid pensioners which should be exempted from this means test. 1 refer to those people working in sheltered workshops. The Minister would be aware that any retarded person working in a sheltered workshop would have no money in the bank and no assets to his name and, naturally, he would qualify for the full supplementary pension of $2 a week, except in the case of employees at Escarp Industries, about which I know a little. The Minister for Social Services was honoured to open this workshop a few years ago. The employees at Escarp receive $2.50 a week for their work. Escarp does a very good job in trying to do something for these people to keep them occupied but, because of the fact that they are earning $2.50 a week, their supplementary pension is reduced from $2 a week to 50c. So, in other words, they work all week for 50c. If they did not work at all they would receive the full supplementary pension of $2, so one can readily see that this is a blot upon the Government. As honourable members would be aware these people are not responsible for their actions and the Escarp companies are doing a magnificent job in keeping them occupied. I believe that this section of recipients of the invalid pension should be exempted from the means test. 
I now refer to the application form which has to be completed by people applying for age and invalid pensions. As the Minister is aware, part of the form relates to supplementary assistance. In the last 12 months 2 people who have come to see me did not know that they were entitled to receive supplementary assistance simply because they did not understand the form which they completed when they applied for a pension. There is very little information given about supplementary assistance. As a matter of fact, one man who came to see me only last week would have been entitled to receive supplementary assistance for the past 3 years if he had understood the form that has to be completed. He receives supplementary asistance now. He applied for the back money which he should have received, but naturally his application was refused. But the point is that when people are being examined by the magistrate on behalf of the Department of Social Services they should be fully acquainted as their entitlements and what the means test is. If that had been done in the case to which I have referred the man would have received supplementary assistance for 3 years prior to the time when he actually received it. 
I also refer to another case involving another constituent of mine. I have been authorised to use the name of the person concerned. Her name is Ellen Sweeney, but everyone knows her as Nellie Sweeney. She is a blind pensioner. She has been receiving supplementary assistance since 1967. She plays an organ at a church in a nearby electorate. It is a common sight to see her playing the organ in this church with her seeing eye dog beside her. She receives $15 a month from the church for playing the organ. That averages approximately $170 a year. She is entitled to receive $156 a year, being $2 a week supplementary assistance and an extra $1 a week she is allowed to earn, before the means test is applied. This woman has to repay $410 to the Department simply because she did not know that she was not entitled to receive the supplementary allowance. Being a blind pensioner she assumed that blind pensioners were exempted from all means tests. 
This woman is a well known and popular identity in my electorate. She plays the piano at functions organised by old age pensioners associations and she does not receive any money for doing it. She has written a letter to me and I have sent a copy of it to the Minister. He has acknowledged receipt of it and has said that he will look into the matter. In this case I am making a special plea to have the repayment of the money to the Department waived because she was not aware of the operation of the means test. She thought that blind pensioners were exempted from the means test. In her letter to me she said that she has been notified by the Department that it intends to deduct $7 a fortnight from her pension and that she just does not know where she will get the money to feed herself and her seeing eye dog. This is the position. The people associated with church at which she plays the organ asked me to bring this matter to the attention of the Minister. I appeal to the 
Minister to waive the payment of the money which this woman owes to the Department of Social Services. 
I think that the summation of the points made by Opposition members as given by the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  was the most ridiculous that I have ever heard since I entered this Parliament. Apparently not one worthwhile suggestion has come from the Opposition side in regard to the States Grants Bill. The Minister also referred to the promises which were made by members of the Opposition. Apparently he does not remember - he might be a little young to remember - that the Menzies Government was elected in 1949 on many promises which the Liberal-Country Party Government has failed to implement during the last 22 years. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
 I believe that the most important things we have to consider are not those that happened 25 or 26 years ago but the usual trends in politics today. We see many petitions drawn up by very sincere and well meaning people and they are presented to this House for consideration. I intend to support the amendment because I believe that it is in line with the situation which occurs when members in the House ask the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to give consideration to relieving sales tax and income tax. The stock reply of the Treasurer then, as we all know, is that it will be given consideration in the next Budget. I do not see anything wrong with a Minister whose responsibilities are affected by one of these petitions giving a similar reply to those people who signed a petition to show at least that their ideas contained in the petition are acknowledged and will be given further consideration. You,  Mr Speaker,  presented the largest petition I have ever seen in this House. As a matter of fact about all one could see of you was your curly head over the top of it. It was about 4 feet wide and 7 or 8 feet long and was presented on behalf of the Teachers Federation of New South Wales, lt, of course, was putting a case for that organisation. As everyone knows, no politics are played in presenting petitions because honourable members from both sides of the House have from time to time presented similar petitions on behalf of organisations wanting to put their case before the House. So, just as happens when a Minister is asked to take into consideration matters such as the reduction of or exemption from taxation, both income tax and sales tax, and the Minister replies that it will be considered in the Budget, there would be nothing wrong with the Minister, within 21 days of the petition being presented in the House, giving a similar reply to any petition which concerned his department. 

 Mr SCHOLES (Corio) - I seek leave to reply in view of the nature of the debate. 
 I think that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  is worthy of full consideration. I was most impressed with some of the. views put by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  regarding this amendment, but I was not impressed at all by his trying to score political points when this is purely and simply a non-political amendment concerning the. Standing Orders of this House. He said that it was still the policy of the Australian Labor Party to nationalise the banks. He and the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  would know that we do not have the power to nationalise a lolly shop or even one of the sex shops in Sydney about which we hear so much. The fact is that bank nationalisation could be brought about only by a change to section 92 of the Constitution through the will of the people of Australia. To try to score these political points in a non-political argument is, in my opinion, a hit below the belt. The honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull)  also tried to score on this occasion by introducing politics into this non-political debate. 
I would suggest, as did the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  that this amendment will put petitions on a higher plane. It would mean that they would be given ample, consideration by a petitions committee of 7 appointed from this House. The honourable member for Mallee asked why 7 was chosen as the number of members of that committee. Of course we have to start somewhere. If honourable members examine most of the joint House committees they will see that normally there are 7 members of the House of Representatives on such committees; so I would believe that 7 would be the appropriate number to examine the petitions presented to this House from time to dme and to bring down reports to the House. I know that there are many other speakers, and we have quite a lot of standing orders to go into. I will conclude by saying again: Please do not bring politics into this matter. It is not a political one. If you bring politics into it, you are going to make a farce of this debate. 
-I  wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. On the front page of this morning's edition of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' it appears that when the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  asked a question yesterday in relation to sex shops I said that it was too late for him. I said nothing of the sort. It was said by some other honourable member. Conversely, 1 would say that the honourable member for Bennelong has many years in front of him. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I was wondering about the number of questions on the notice paper which have been there for a considerable time and which have not been answered. I am not referring to the questions that I have placed on notice - far from it I think some were placed on the notice paper in the second sessional period of last year. These questions should be answered as quickly as possible. Many members are waiting for information. They have not yet received it, despite the fact that they put the questions on notice in the second period of 1971. As a consequence, I think something should be done about supplying the information that has been requested by a number of honourable members in this House. 
I should like to take up one other matter. Although I did not invite the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  to be present in the chamber tonight I should like to mention again a matter I have raised before concerning social services. I do not want to refer to the social service legislation listed on the notice paper but to the supplementary allowance of $2 a week that is applicable to various people in receipt of age and invalid pensions. I refer to those people who are paying rent, board or lodging and have only a certain amount of money in the bank and no income other than their pensions. I have mentioned this matter time after time in the House, and I intend to mention it again to keep the matter alive as long as I am here. 
As honourable members would be aware, retarded people working in sheltered workshops would have no assets and no money in the bank. A firm called Escarp Industries, which has its premises not far from where I live in Redfern, employs these people in sheltered workshops. It pays them $2.50 a week, which means that they are entitled to only 50c supplementary allowance, whereas if they did not work they would receive $2 a week. As you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the means test applicable to the supplementary allowance precludes a pensioner from having an income of more than $3 a week, including the $2 supplementary allowance. This is a matter that I think is worthwhile mentioning, and I hope that at some time in the very near future this matter will be treated not on a political basis but on a humanitarian basis, irrespective of which government may be in office at the time. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
Does the electorate allowance paid to the 125 Members of the House of Representatives and the 60 Senators comprise the following 5 cost components as determined by the Richardson Report: (a) car and other travel expenses within the electorate, (b) postage stamps, (c) home telephone expenses, (d) donations and (e) social activities. 
Do all Ministers and those with the same entitlements as Ministers receive for themselves and wives (a) unlimited use of car travel anywhere in Australia, (b) free postage stamps and (c) a free home telephone. 
If so, is there an apparent anomaly in Ministers and those with the same entitlements as Ministers receiving similar electorate allowances to private Members. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Do Ministers and those with the same entitlements as Ministers receive a travelling allowance when travelling outside Australia. 
Is it a fact that, if the wife of a Minister and those with the same entitlements as Ministers travels with her husband, all travel and accommodation costs of husband and wife are met by the Commonwealth. 
I ask the Minister for National Development who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation a question. The honourable gentleman will recall that when he was Minister for Civil Aviation I asked him a question regarding a woman in England who, whilst occupying a toilet facility, was actually catapulted to the floor by the boom of a supersonic aircraft passing overhead. I asked the Minister whether, prior to the Concorde coming to Australia, he would supply seat belts to residents living near Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. The Minister said that he would look into it. I ask: Has he looked into it? 
Order! I ask the honourable gentleman to state his point of order. 
First, I should like to make it perfectly clear that I believe that  Mr Ley  and  Mr Malton  are men of the highest integrity. If these words were uttered by  Mr Westerway,  I do not believe for one moment that they are true. I would say that this is an indiscretion of the worst kind. However the facts as I see them are that the Minister for the Interior stated that  Mr Westerway  has control of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party. He certainly has not. He is the manager and is responsible to the administrative committee of which I happen to be a member and which in turn is responsible to the State Council.  Mr Westerway  is a paid servant of the Party. He is not in control of the New South Wales branch. What  Mr Westerway  said on this occasion is certainly not the view of the New South Wales branch; nor is it the view of my colleagues here at Canberra. 
I was elected in May 1955. I was here for only a couple of months before my seat of Cook was abolished. My seat of Watson was subsequently abolished. So one might say that I should be crooked on the redistribution Commissioners. But I know they have a job to do. I certainly hold no animosity towards them because of the job they did in abolishing my seats; that is all in the game. While I have been here I have been under many Divisional Returning Officers in my electorate. However, I have always found them to be men of the highest integrity and absolutely unbiassed who would not do a favour for any candidate against another. If honourable members want to indulge in personalities, let me mention a few indiscretions that I have seen. It was under the Menzies Government that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  raided Garden Island which was then under strict security. 
 Mr Speaker,  I think that the Minister should seek to make a personal explanation when I am finished speaking, as you would be aware. If I have offended him, I withdraw the words. But what I have said is quite true about the honourable member for Macarthur. I think that Jos Francis, who at the time was the Minister for the Army, when asked what to do with him said: 'Leave the bloody fool in there for the week-end'. Another case concerned  Sir John  McEwen, the exDeputy Prime Minister and Leader of the Australian Country Party. He once said to Joe Clark, who was the  Chairman  of Committees in the Chifley Government: 'You are a gangster*. Fancy that remark coming from the leader of a political parry and a knight of the round table. Is that not an indiscretion? There are many people in public life who say things for which they were sorry after. I respect  Sir Robert  Menzies very much. As a matter of fact, I have always classed him as a friend of mine. But he once made an indiscretion in Tasmania for which he was very sorry. He said to some people over there who were interjecting that he did not want to be mixed up with the sons of convicts. Is that not an indiscretion? Of course it is, and so is what was said by  Mr Westerway. 
Who? 
Did  Sir Robert  Menzies say he was sorry? Did  Sir John  McEwen say he was sorry? Did the honourable member for Macarthur say he was sorry? Of course they did not. They just took it and let the matter die down. 
It is a remarkable thing that the Press is allowed to attend Australian Labor Party conferences - that is our State conferences, our congress and our Federal conferences. Why does the Liberal Party not allow the Press into its conferences? Has it something to hide? Is it frightened? Is it frightened about the discussions being made public? It must be. The Australian Labor Party has nothing to hide at its conferences. It invites the Press and television to attend them. Those people can listen to our discussions. They can hear the full discussions which determine what our policy is to be. Naturally at the conferences there are differences of opinion. Of course, the newspapers, most of which are anti-Labor, take the opportunity of saying that this is another split in the Labor Party. 
Let us talk a little about Liberal preselection ballots. I know from a Liberal member who is at present sitting in the House - I will not mention his name - that the alphabetical system of pre-selection has been one of the secret weapons of the Liberal Party. If the Liberals have a swing seat and there is a host of candidates to choose from, anyone whose name starts with XYZ has no chance of getting pre.selecton. We only have to look at the swing seats that have been won throughout Australia to see that the candidates' names start with A, B or C. This applied even in the case of the  Speaker, Sir William  Aston. It also applied in the case of  Mr Bosman.  Bosman was selected for the electorate of St George because his name started with B and he was above Lionel Clay. Is this fair to supporters of the Liberal Party who put their names in for pre-selection? Of course it is not. Candidates are selected according to their alphabetical surname. Yet, honourable members opposite talk about- 
Oh, here he is. Go back to sleep Les. You were asleep a minute ago. 
 I agree with the sentiments expressed by my colleagues the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in regard to the sunshine State. It is well known that Queensland is Australia's leading State in tourism. However, I take exception to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Barnes)  in regard to  Senator Gair.  I inform those honourable members that when I conclude this speech I intend to go straight to the honourable senator to inform him of what they have been saying about him. 1 think we may have reached the stage at which he will withdraw Australian Democratic Labor Party preference votes from the Government parties. When Queensland was starving for much of the money that the honourable member for McPherson was talking about,  Sir Robert  Menzies was Prime Minister of Australia. The honourable member has made rather castigating statements about one of his former leaders. The honourable member for McPherson was a member of the inner Cabinet with  Sir Robert  Menzies yet he had the audacity to say that  Sir Robert  was not doing his job. 
At Premiers Conferences the Prime Minister is responsible for the allocation of money to each State. If Queensland did not get its share that was the fault of the Prime Minister and the Federal Government of the day. It was not the fault of the State Premier. I am speaking tonight in defence of  Senator Gair,  strange to say, as he has a DLP candidate standing against me. I believe it unfair to take advantage of the fact that  Senator Gair  is a member of another place and not in a position to defend himself from vicious attacks made on him by a member who depends on DLP preferences to keep him in this House. Despite this, the honourable member for Griffith has had the audacity to say that there were no showers at the school he attended because  Senator Gair  was Premier. How can the honourable member expect to get the senator's preferences? Immediately I conclude and before the honourable member can tell a lot of fibs about what he will do, I shall see  Senator Gair  and tell him what has been happening here. 

 Mr DONALD CAMERON (Griffith)I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I wish to follow along lines similar to those of the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  who spoke about the textile industry. I have one of the biggest textile plants in Australia in my electorate - that is Bradmill Industries Ltd. I have had several conversations over the years with the directors of this firm. They have impressed me very much with their sincerity in regard to protecting Australian industry in this field. One can readily see from the remarks of the honourable member for Paterson that we have no chance of competing on an equal basis with low wage countries. In addition to the matters mentioned by the honourable member such as longer hours we must also protect such industrial amenities as long service leave, workers compensation and paid annual holidays. These matters can only be protected by actually putting a high tariff on the import of textiles. It is recognised thoughout Australia that the textile industry is the greatest decentralised industry in our land and that it gives employment to people particularly in country areas. In Lismore there is a huge plant which manufactures trousers and other items of apparel. If that industry did not function in Lismore I would say that Lismore would be very much in the red. There is no doubt that this applies to many towns throughout Australia. 
If, for example, a shirt of similar quality to an Australian manufactured article is imported from Taiwan, the Taiwanese article sells for $6 and the Australian article is priced at $8. One naturally would assume that if the Australian textile industry happened to go out of business because of cheap imports the Taiwanese shirt would still be priced at $6. But I do not think that would be so. I think that article would go up to the top price that used to be obtained for the local article. I can recall the time when I asked the then Treasurer, now the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  a question in relation to the devaluation of sterling and its effects on imports into Australia of goods manufactured in sterling countries. I asked what benefit we would obtain and whether it would be passed on to the consuming public. Of course, it was not passed on; it was kept by the importers themselves. Not one penny piece was passed on to the consumer in Australia after a reduction in price following the devaluation of the sterling in England a few years ago. 
This is the sort of thing that we must take into consideration. I do not know whether anybody in this House has been in the duty free shop located at the Taiwan airport and has seen what can be purchased. For example, I saw a shirt of perfectly good quality there which could be purchased for 90c in Australian currency. That is not even equivalent to the average hourly wage paid in the textile industry which at the present time is about $1.20. As we all know, this applies mainly to female labour, for 75 per cent of those employed in the textile industry are females. 
The Government should take notice of what the honourable member for Paterson said in regard to this matter. I have made similar speeches over the years on this subject. It is important to protect this industry by all means, because it is the greatest decentralised industry in Australia. I think it is agreed that SO per cent of those employed in the textile industry are of new Australian origin and those people, who I think have made the industry in Australia, should be encouraged to remain in their jobs. 
I do not believe that there should be tariff protection for the textile industry. I believe that there should be a quota system such as exists in the United States of America, the United Kingdom and other European countries. The imports are allowed in only because those countries desire to protect their own industries by this method. If we in Australia introduced a quota system such as that which obtained about 10 years ago, that would be suitable to the textile industry. It would be much more suitable than the present situation because many textile manufacturers are unable to expand or to purchase new machinery for shirt production or to manufacture cloth for other wearing apparel as they are not sure what will happen next year in regard to the imposition of tariffs. They are in the doldrums when it comes to laying out policies for the future. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  having a big firm in your electorate, would be aware that it is necessary to use every means available to us to protect the textile industry of Australia to ensure that it does not go out of business. 
I strongly support the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in putting forward the claims of Archbishop Loane and Bishop Hulme-Moir for eliminating poverty in our community. I should like first to comment on a few of the remarks of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  As usual, after 23 years of this Government, he analogises what was paid by the Chifley Labor Government with what is paid today in social services. However, he does not tell us that the 1949 Budget provided for a total amount of £5 15m, or $1030m, as compared with nearly $9000m today. One would readily accept that if one had a little more money in one's pocket today than in 1949 one would be in a position to do more with it. 
I speak in absolute opposition to the viewpoint of the Minister for Social Services that the incidence of poverty has been reduced. 
In 1956 the Menzies Government, of which the Minister was a member, abolished the rebate system which was then in existence in respect of the Mousing Commissions in all States. The rebate system meant that pensioners were able to get Housing Commission homes because a portion of the number of houses available had to be allocated to them. For these houses they paid very small rentals - as little as 8s or 10s a week. After the abolition of that system the Cahill Government in New South Wales introduced a scheme out of its own pocket, without one penny piece being paid by the Commonwealth, to house these people. This scheme started with the building of 300 homes in the first year. These were let at very reasonable rentals for £1 for a single unit and 30s for a double unit. One readily can see that the inhuman act of the Menzies Government in 1956 in abolishing the rebate system had a great effect on pensioners, particularly in New South Wales. At present the average waiting time for a pensioner unit is 5 years. After applying for a pensioner unit one has to wait 5 years. 
I believe that this Parliament and the people of Australia owe a great debt to Archbishop Loane and Bishop Hulme-Moir for recently suggesting the urgent need of an inquiry, the purpose of which would be to eliminate poverty. 1 was one of those who accompanied the Minister for Social Services,  Senator Carrick,  Bishop Hulme-Moir and the Reverend Buckingham of St Paul's Church in Redfern on an inspection of homes in Redfern in my electorate recently. I believe that the Minister was appalled at some of the things he saw. We visited only 3 homes because we did not have time to visit any more. In one of the homes was a family comprising 10 children, a husband and wife who were paying $25 a week rent. When the Minister asked the woman of the house how much rent she was paying and she told him it was $25 he nearly fell through the floor; he did not imagine that any landlord would have the audacity to charge $25 a week for that place. 
The blame for the poverty that exists in the inner city areas of Sydney rests solely on the Minister's colleague in New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin. The Askin Government abolished rent control and as a result the Minister for Social Services in this House was flabbergasted to know that these people were paying $25 a week. If the place had been under rent control they would have paid probably $7 or $8 a week. When the Askin Government thought about abolishing rent control it should have taken into consideration subsidising the rents of people living in such parlous conditions as exist in Redfern at the present time. The group I was with was not allowed into any lodging houses because, naturally, the people who own them would not let us in. The Reverend Buckingham tried to get into some of them but they would not let him in. The fact is that pensioners are paying up to $12 a week for a room. Yet the Minister says that poverty has been reduced. It has been increased since the Askin Government abolished rent control in the inner city areas of Sydney. We find that in Redfern a pensioner can get a room for $8 a week, provided he is willing to share it with 2 other people. Yet this Government talks about reducing poverty, lt is absolutely ridiculous. 
The point is that one has to live amongst these people to find out for oneself what the real position is. 1 have been living in Redfern for 40 years and I know a bit about the problems which face these people. We must always bear in mind that when a pensioner goes into a shop to purchase bread, groceries, fruit or vegetables - if he can alford them - he does not get any concession from the shopkeeper. The pensioner pays the same price as a millionaire pays. The pensioner gets no concession at all. Yet they are expected to exist on $18.25 plus a rent allowance of $2. a total of about $20, and have to pay up to $12 a week for a room. 
Let us talk about the supplementary allowance. This allowance was first introduced in October 1958 when the amount was $1 a week and the pensioner was allowed an income of $1- The allowance was increased in 1965 from $1 to $2, but the allowable income of SI still remains the same as it was 14 years ago. Over the past 7 years that allowance has deteriorated in value, as the Minister well knows, because of the abolition of rent control, particularly throughout New South Wales where it has affected people who pay exorbitant rents. In 1965 when rent control existed S2 was worth $2, but it is not worth $2 today because, as everyone in this House knows, as soon as the pensioner gets a rise up goes the rent in lodging houses. On every occasion when there has been a rent increase, it has been due to the fact that the pensioners have received an increase in their rates of pension. 
I should also like to remind the Minister that there used to be a Labor controlled council in Sydney and that every Christmas the council used to give out a few dollars - about $7 or $8 - to each pensioner in this area. It was called 'Pudding Week' because it used to give the pensioners something for Christmas. Who abolished this? It was abolished by the Minister's friends the civic reformers, who are all members of the Liberal Party. A small workshop was created to employ about 50 or 60 people, but about 4,000 or 5,000 pensioners have been chopped out of that Christmas 'Pudding Week'. This was done by the friends of the Minister. These are the people who are supposed to be humanitarians. They have not got a thought in their heads for the pensioners. 
Let us look at the facts in regard to people employed in retarded workshops. In my electorate is a big workshop called Escarp Industries which the Minister opened a few years ago. These retarded people, as honourable members would be aware, have no assets and therefore they are not affected by the means test in this respect, but because they work in this workshop and receive $2.50 a week their allowance is reduced to 50c. I have asked the Minister to exempt these people from the means test to enable them to qualify for the allowance, but so far he has done nothing about it. Would anybody in this House object to the means test being eliminated in regard to its application to retarded people? These people work all the week and they are proud to take home $2.50 each week. Yet they are penalised because they work in this workshop to fill in their time and give them something to do. Their allowance is reduced to the paltry sum of 50c a week because they work in this industry. Nothing has been done about exempting them from the means test. 
I always become emotional when I talk about pensioners because I have spoken repeatedly in this House on this matter over the years. I know the needs and wants of these people. I know that under the existing conditions pensioners, particularly those who are paying rents for rooms, cannot possibly exist. If it were not for the Labor controlled South Sydney Council and its amenity centres which supply a 3-course dinner every day at a charge of 20c these people would starve. This is a Labor controlled council. This service was established by a Labor controlled council in the city of Sydney, but it has been carried on simply because the council is not game to try to abolish it, which it would do if it could, I am sure. These centres have all been opened by the Labor Party. I reiterate that without these centres the pensioners who benefit from them would starve to death. That is not an exaggeration. 
In seconding the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders proposed by my colleague, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  I would like to say that I believe it is incumbent upon the Government to grant with expedition an inquiry into poverty and all related areas of social need. One would assume that an inquiry into poverty would be something good for the community. I am sure that if an inquiry were established people from all walks of life would come forward to give evidence. We would have, people associated with welfare societies and people associated with churches. We would have people associated with the Brown sisters and nursing associations who would come along to give evidence. I believe that the establishment of such an inquiry would be a step in the right direction. 
I believe that the point is not whether the poverty that exists is on a large or small scale. The point is that the people who are affected have to be counted. The establishment of an inquiry is the one and only way of establishing the facts based on the evidence which would be produced by people engaged in the work of trying to bring happiness to some persons who are not in a position to provide it for themselves. I do not intend to debate any substantive question in regard to social services. However, I plead with the Government - and this is an honest plea - to grant this inquiry so that we can get to the crux of this matter. 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  in his opening remarks, said that the Opposition was trying to score politically off this matter. I believe that the granting of this inquiry by the Government would be one way of proving that the Opposition is not concerned about scoring politically. Once the inquiry made a finding in regard to poverty in Australia both sides could have a look at what the inquiry determined and then we could come to a conclusion about what we should do. This would eliminate all possibility of age and invalid pensions being used as a political football. 
Therefore I ask the Government in all sincerity to grant this inquiry. As I stated, such an inquiry not only would be able to hear my views and the views of any other person who lives in the. particular areas in which poverty exists - because at times we have been accused of exaggeration - but I am sure that it would bring to light the facts as to what poverty is in Australia. As outlined by my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Oxley, it is a fact that this has been initiated- 
I understood that I was not. However, I bow to your ruling. I would like to read to the House the wording of the matter of public importance that was raised today. It stated: 
The need foi a national and independent public inquiry into poverty and all related areas of social need. 
I believe that such an inquiry should be set up to look into the subjects raised in the debate on the matter of public importance. If this were done I think that we would do the Australian community a great service. I do not believe that there is any person in the community who would object to such an inquiry being held. There is no doubt that there are many people in Australia today who do not understand what poverty means because they do not live in the electorates in which poverty exists. They do not make it their business to know or find out about poverty. If such an inquiry were held, those people would be told what poverty really is. I know that the Minister for Social Services was very impressed when he went into the areas that some Opposition members represent because he did not know what poverty actually meant until he saw for himself the people in the homes we visited. So one can readily visualise the effect that such an inquiry would have. It has been suggested by Archbishop Loane and Bishop Hulme-Moir that such an inquiry should be held. I do not see why the Government should not accede to our request to hold this inquiry. 
I feel compelled to offer some comment on the remarks the Minister made a few minutes ago. He said that he had not received any protests in regard to the $2 a week increase. 
What do you mean, representations about what? 
But you did pass a remark about the $2 increase? 
 I apologise. I thought you did. But I would like to mention in passing that the report of  Mr Justice  Kerr on parliamentary salaries was presented recently, and unfortunately it was used politically by this Government.  Mr Justice  Kerr recommended a basic salary of $13,000 for members of this Parliament but the Government suggested that we should reduce this amount to $12,000 in the public interest. The Government told us at the time that the economy could not afford any more. The Government was proposing lo save money in the public interest, and none knows this better than the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and the Minister who was one of the policy makers who suggested that the basic amount should be reduced by $1,000. Yet the Minister has the audacity to say that an increase of $4,500 is not high. 
It is retrospective, as my colleague reminds me. The fact is that the Government wants to score politically at our expense. Of course it was rejected because the Australian Labor Party woke up to the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was going to use this report to try to get votes. All honourable members know that what I am saying is right. According to the Kerr Committee report which was brought down in this House, the economy is not what it should be. Yet the Minister has the audacity to get up in this House and say that $4,500 is not too much as an increase for commissioners. 
But only about a month or so ago he knocked $1,000 off a recommendation in the Kerr Committee report. Is that not inconsistent? Is it not hypocrisy? Of course it is hypocrisy. Not only members of this Party but also members of the' Australian Democratic Labor Party and many of the Liberal Party back benchers were annoyed about it. The Government asked a judge to bring down a report, but what happened? When he brought it down the Government wanted to score politically from that report. That is the reason why the Labor Party rejected it. 
1 ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs who represents the Attorney-General in this House a question which is supplementary to one asked by the Leader of the Opposition on 2nd March. In answer to that question the Minister said he would look at the failure of himself and other lawyers who were then in the Ministry to complete the return of their expenses at the last House of Representatives election as required by the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Since he has not yet actually told the Leader of the Opposition, as he promised, and since he might soon have to sit in judgment on others who seem to have broken the law, I again ask him why he did not complete the return of his last election expenses. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  mentioned public interest, and I intend to elaborate on that point a little further. It is inexplicable to me and to many other people just what is the interpretation of public interest', which was mentioned by my friend and colleague the honourable member for Corio. I should like to know in what branch of industry stoppages have not occurred. I will mention a few of the people who are connected with services which are rendered in the public interest: pilots, first and second officers, flight engineers, flight stewards and hostesses of Qantas Airways Ltd, Trans-Australia Airlines, and Ansett Airlines of Australia; ships engineers, ferry and dock boat captains, private bank officers, newspaper journalists, members of Actors Equity, members of the musicians Union, white collar workers, prison warders - the prisoners offered to walk out in sympathy with warders - members of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, members of the Australasian Society of Engineers, ironworkers, sheet metal workers, waterside workers, transport workers, boiler makers, plumbers, ships painters and dockers, liquor trade employees, glass workers, milk industry employees, meat workers, jockeys, members of the Australian Workers Union, clerks, miscellaneous workers and many others. Who is left in the public outside those people whom I have mentioned? I do not think there would be many other people who render services in the public interest. The Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  made a statement about the economy and what we must do to protect it. I repeat what I said last week: This is strange when one considers the statement made by the Government in regard to the Kerr report on salaries for members of the Commonwealth Parliament. That report recommended a salary of $13,000 for a private member, but the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  wanted to reduce it to $12,000 because of the state of the economy at that time.In other words, he was going to make a big fellow of himself. This Bill provides for an increase, from  $12,000 to $16,400, in the salaries of conciliation commissioners, retrospective to last November. Is that in the interests of the economy? Of course it is not. What a lot of rubbish. 
The decision in regard to the 'Little Red Schoolbook' that was mentioned earlier by my friend was not a decision of the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp);  it was a decision of the Cabinet of which the Minister is a member. Was that done in the public interest, as explained by my friend? That was not the decisionof the Minister for Customs and Excise; it was the decision of Cabinet - the 12 ruling members. 1 should hope that in future my friend does not put the blame for that decision on the Minister for Customs and Excise when he was only one of the men who were responsible for making it. Was that decision in the public interest? These are the things which, as I have said, are inexplicable to many people in Australia. Just what is the public interest? We would like the Minister for Labour and National Service or the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service to give us. at the earliest possible opportunity, aninterpretation of what is in the public interest. 
I. think that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  hurt the feelings of my colleague the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  very much indeed. Of course, everybody has committed some indiscretion in the past, and 1 would like to refer to the fact that in 1961 the honourable member for Moreton was returned to this Parliament on Communist Party preferences. He was responsible for the Menzies Government being returned to power. We all recall that we had to wait about 3 weeks for the result and, while the then Prime Minister was pacing up and down bis study, the suspense was 'kill in'. The facts are, of course, that in 1961  Mr Menzies  was returned as Prime Minister of this country by the election of the honourable member for Moreton and by Communist Party preferences. At that stage the Prime Minister referred to the honourable member as the 'Magnificent Killen'. He has never lost that sobriquet. Tonight I thought he was brilliant. As a matter of fact, I thought he would have beaten Peter Falk for the Academy Award in the United States of America any day of the week. 
I agree with the point of view put by my colleague the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  He put a case which I think is unanswerable. We do want an answer as to what this clause really means and as to whether people can be prosecuted by the owner of a vessel. These are the things we must learn. We must be told by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  what they really mean. If they are put into effect what would it mean to the trade union movement in this regard? I repeat that the honourable member for Moreton has hurt the feelings of my colleague the honourable member for Hindmarsh and I hope that it will not happen again during the course of this debate. 
I move: 
The theruling be  dissented  from. 

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
It might not be otiose to remind honourable members that under the Constitution this Parliament always has had the responsibility of passing laws with respect to external affairs under paragraph (xxix) of section 51 of the Constitution. Not only that but also with respect to the relations of the Commonwealth with the islands of the Pacific, under the following paragraph, (xxx). It has always, therefore, been envisaged that Australia, even in the old colonial days, should have a particular responsibility in this regard. It is for this reason that my Party is committed to establish a Pacific Islands Division within the Department of Foreign Affairs to second and support skilled personnel requested by Papua New Guinea and other islands of the Pacific for their civil and armed forces. 
It is reassuring that the Government should now have made this increasing and long term commitment. It has to be acknowledged that in Fiji in particular there has been resentment at Australia's lack of interest in such commitments for the size and the period of such commitments. In the mid-1960s for instance, the Australian Government rejected an official request for a grant to Fiji on the ground that Fiji was Britain's political responsibility. This was not received very kindly in Fiji since Fiji has long been an Australian economic colony while it might have been a British political colony. All of Fiji's significant trading companies, commerce and banking companies are in the hands of Australian organisations. The sugar industry, Fiji's largest industry, is controlled by Australia. The international and regional airlines of Fiji are controlled from Australia through Qantas Airways Ltd. Now tourism is also being promoted from Australia which has benefited from all these enterprises in Fiji. 
There is still resentment in Fiji in official as well as at widespread popular levels that Australian investors and Australian companies have shown so little interest in developing industries in Fiji. Australia has been long and increasingly interested in those enterprises in Fiji which provide a dividend and employment for Australians. One would hope that succeeding Australian governments will do what they can to ensure that Fiji is able to industrialise and to employ its large Fijian and Indian populations. The amount which has been made available under this programme is certainly an increase on amounts provided in earlier years. Honourable members will be able to see the figures for 1965 to 1970 in an answer that the Minister's predecessor gave to me on the 7th April last year. I asked the present Minister on the 11th April this year to bring these figuresup to date. It will be seen from the answer that the Minister's predecessor gave me in respect of Fiji that the amount of Australian aid rose from SA71.158 to SA838.149- a large escalation. Nevertheless, it is still small compared with Britain's aid which, in 1969 was$US6,494.000. But for Britain's aid Fiji's economic position would be very much weaker than it is. Fiji is in a region where the United States of America incomparably the most munificent country in all history has given very little. The answer I referred to shows that Fiji received in 1970 from the United States $US22,000 and in 1971 nothing. In his answer the Minister stated: 
New Zealand has also granted assistance in education, defence, civil aviation, meteorology and health to Fiji. Total figures are not available but the aid provided includes the donations of the RNZAF site and buildings (valued at approximately $3m) as the site for the University of the South Pacific, and the training of Fijians in New Zealand. 
I make passing reference to the position of other British colonies in this area. In 1969 Britain gave assistance to the Solomon Islands of $US7,3 15,000. Australia gave $A41.793. To the Gilbert and Ellice Islands in 1969-70 Britain gave assistance of $US1,294,000. Australia in 1969-70 gave $A34,198. To the New Hebrides condominium Britain in 1969 gave assistance of $US2,928,000. Australia in 1969-70 gave$A1 8,330. It is clear that while there is a long term increased commitment by the Australian Government, it does not bulk largely in our region when compared with commitments undertaken by Great Britain, whose geographic interest must clearly be so much less and whose political interest must be declining comparatively. She has given so very much more. 
The Opposition supports the announcement by the Minister. It shows for the first time a long term commitment by Australia to the development of the countries in her region, these countries which in a great surge in the last couple of years have become independent members of the Commonwealth, members of the United Nations and neighbours who speak and vote for themselves. It is gratifying that the Prime Minister of Fiji will so soon be making a return visit. I believe that the Minister's announcement today will reassure him as to the nature and extent of Australia's increasing interest in his country, which in so many political, economic and social matters has been the forerunner for developments in our region. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="078131197205176_23_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="078131197205176_24_1.jpg"></graphic>

I referred to the number of industries that have closed down. I did not deal with the foodstuffs industries and the intrusion of Peters Ice Cream Pty Ltd, Streets Ice Cream Pty Ltd and Devondale Cream Pty 

<graphic href="078131197205176_24_1.jpg"></graphic>

Ltd into the market. Peters closed down 2 years ago, displacing 146 men. Other companies in the wholesale warehousing section of the foodstuffs industries have likewise closed down, and now business is transacted on a management to management level. As a result of this over 100 men and women have been displaced from the food wholesaling section of the Newcastle economy. In my remarks a moment ago I mentioned wool. I have some figures showing the movement of wool through the port of Newcastle over the last 10 years. They disclose that in 1963, 309,000 bales of wool were shipped through the port of Newcastle. In 1970-71 that figure had declined to 62,265. It is estimated that in 1971-72 less than 40,000 bales will be shipped through the port of Newcastle. On the other hand, other figures disclose that the number of bales of wool transported by rail from Newcastle to Sydney in 1967- 68 was 83,000 and in 1970-71 was 219,317. This increase occurred as a result of the operation of Yennora and as a result of containerisation. The Government must do something positive about the matter. 
I should like to have had time to deal with the effects of shipping as a whole on employment in the Newcastle district and with the need for some assistance to be given to the State dockyard by way of a new graving-dock. Whilst I have moved the amendment on behalf of the Opposition, the Opposition would be very pleased to withdraw the motion if the Minister in charge of the Bill would have a look at it and, if necessary, indicate to me as the spokesman for the Opposition on this amendment that the Government would be prepared to set up a select committee to investigate employment and the effects of centralisation in industry today. In the last few weeks on behalf of the Opposition I went to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and put a proposition to him that the Government should set up a parliamentary select committee to investigate road safety. I am pleased to say that on that occasion the Minister for Shipping and Transport agreed to the request. The result is that the committee had its first meeting yesterday morning. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 

 Mr MacKellar (Warringah) (4.12)- At 10.56 p.m. on Sunday, 20th July 1969 Neil Armstrong touched one foot on the moon's surface and he said: 
That's one small step for a man, one giant leap for mankind. 
It was a particularly significant achievement made even more dramatic by the fact that millions of people all over the world saw it as it happened. The whole situation was made possible because of the tremendous refinement and sophistication in the field of communications - and Australia played and has continued to play an important part in the development and success of communication technology. People are apt to become very blase about technological advances which play a significant part in their lives and these become accepted very quickly as being the natural order of things. You would remember,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as I do, that it is only about 16 years ago that people in the sophisticated city of Sydney were standing around shop windows in great crowds looking for the first time in their lives at this phenomenon called television, it is only a very short time ago that the task of making a telephone call between major cities in Australia was a hazardous and often unsatisfactory undertaking. The thought of telephoning anyone overseas scarcely entered the minds of businessmen, let alone the private citizen. All these things are now taken for granted, but there are other aspects of the story of communications within Australia upon which I would like to elaborate. 
All people and all nations seek better communications services. There is no doubt that conventional communication technology has made tremendous advances, particularly in the past few decades, to meet the expressed needs, and there is no doubt that it will continue to do so. But despite the advances, there is a growing feeling that they will be unable to cope with future needs. Such things as the growing requirement for the provision of multiple world wide services for handling news, for the facsimile transmission of documents, for transmission of weather data, not to mention, of course, the ever increasing demand for additional telephone call facilities. There is absolutely no doubt as to the increase in demand for additional communication services, and I believe - and it has already been shown - that domestic communication satellite systems are one of the most significant means whereby the sufficient lift in capacity to ensure rapid expansion of services can be achieved. 
To back up this claim I would like to talk a little about the characteristics of conventional as against satellite communications. In conventional systems we may have pairs of open wires, cables or radio. Open wires on poles are clearly vulnerable all along their route to both natural and man made hazards. Cables which may be underground or submarine are also vulnerable, although of course less so than open wires. Radio links vary. Some in the medium frequency bands can, under suitable conditions, reach all parts of the world, but they are subject to atmospheric interference, and I am told the frequency band is greatly oversubscribed. These links are therefore unreliable, and because of the available band width cannot carry complex intelligence reliably. 
A great deal of communication is now carried on using microwave networks. Television, telephone and data transmission is increasingly carried by microwaves. These networks consist of relay stations, each equipped with a transmitting tower which must be in line of sight of at least 2 other network towers. Because of the earth's curvature and the practical limitations on the towers the distance between them is limited to 30 or 40 miles. Therefore, to cover a distance of only 1,000 miles, some 30 or more microwave stations are required. The microwaves themselves are virtually interference free, and have the capacity to carry complex data, but because of this virtual line of sight requirement, the location of relay stations is often remote from habitation. Whilst they operate unmanned, maintenance is costly, and the provision of power is often more than a small problem. Each relay station is therefore subject to an added risk from natural causes, as well as being highly vulnerable to human interference. Additionally since the whole system depends on a series of relay stations, and networks providing alternative routing are costly, many stations are vital to the system as a whole. 
As against this, what can the satellite do? A geo-stationary satellite really acts as a super high tower, carrying a relay or repeater station for a whole microwave network. Stationed above the equator it can cover approximately one-third of the world's surface. If it were stationed above Australia, it would cover all of Australia, plus New Zealand, the islands of the South Pacific, New Guinea, all the states of South East Asia, the Philippines, Japan, and significant parts of India, China and Russia. However, the area covered can be reduced and prescribed by varying the aerial system of the satellite. I spoke of geo-stationary satellites. These are satellites which rotate about the earth in a circular orbit above the equator. Their orbital speed precisely matches the earth's rate of rotation, and this means that they are effectively a motionless communications relay point 22,500 miles out in space. Such a satellite can spread the signals it receives over a very large area, as I have just detailed. It can distribute television or telephone signals to many widely separated points simultaneously. The distance between the points is relatively unimportant; land features or oceans cease to be obstacles and there is no part of a community, however, remote or temporary, which needs to be isolated from a communication aspect. Contrast this with a land based system in which the cost and the complexity grow according to the distance covered and of course are extremely dependent on the nature and accessibility of the intervening terrain. 
What can these communication satellites carry? They can carry virtually any form of electronic communication. This can be relayed or rebroadcast by such a satellite. High quality telephone and telex trunk circuits can be provided between centres within the coverage area. This can allow remote communication to be integrated into the national system in which land links would be uneconomic in both initial cost and maintenance. The rebroadcasting of radio and television services could be achieved. It is doubtful whether any location would be too remote, hidden or screened from the transmitting station via a satellite. I do not want it to be thought that I am suggesting for a moment that conventional techniques are made redundant by the use of a satellite. The reverse is the case. The 2 systems are entirely complementary and to obtain maximum benefits would have to be closely integrated. 
I should like to deal with just a few more points on satellites before discussing in more detail their benefits. The number of possible communication satellites which may be placed in a suitable orbit for Australia is limited. There is a natural limit imposed by the number of satellite frequencies that are available in the electromagnetic spectrum, and this requires satellite separation to avoid interference between satellite transmission beams. The number of earth stations corresponds to the number of localities to be served. Their size and type depend on the service to be offered. But existing stations would play an important part in the development of the whole system. 
The number of satellites is also important. The Canadians have suggested a system with 2 synchronous satellites in stationary orbit over the equator. The idea is that the second satellite would ensure continuity of service by providing complete duplication, in orbit, of the functions of the first. A third satellite would be held in reserve on the ground. On present indications the satellites would be replaced in orbit after 5 to 7 years. The capacity of these communication satellites would vary according to design, but it is possible to have up to 5,000 2-way telephone circuits or 12 colour television channels, or permutations and combinations of these facilities. It is also possible to have up to 36 black and white television channels. Specific circuits could be set aside for particular purposes, such as defence usage, but the actual configuration for usage of the satellites' capacity would have to be decided by consultation between the various interests concerned with it. 
What would be the benefits to Australia? I do not pretend to know them all, but I would like to suggest some which I believe are strongly in the national interest. Firstly, of course, telephone, telex and data communication would be enhanced right throughout the nation and beyond. Obviously the Postmaster-General's department would be interested in this, and facilities could be made available for industry, commerce, government, air traffic control, weather forecasting, and the dissemination of national public service information. Additionally, television and radio programmes could be beamed on a national basis both for entertainment and for cultural development. Such a television channel could be made available for education of children and adults in remote locations. I particularly draw attention to the concept of a national open university, whose nationally beamed lectures and discussions could be supplemented by poster  written material.  Such a university, using land based transmission, is already operating successfully in the United Kingdom. This use of the possibilities supplied by the possession of such a satellite could be of inestimable benefit to people in the remote areas of Australia, as all schools could receive live broadcasts of current affairs or particular educational programmes prepared and performed by specialists in their field. 
The satellites could play a highly significant part in national defence and security as the security and flexibility of satellite communication - which can work to a transportable ground station - would make them a significant asset in defence terms. It is worthwhile noting that security risks are minimised because damage to the ground station affects only the local area since none of them needs to be a vital relay centre. The destruction of a satellite in orbit by hostile forces is an extremely difficult and costly process, which even so is not certain of success. Australia's relationships with its neighbours could also he enhanced as special programmes could be prepared and shown to neighbouring states. Additional benefits could be expected to flow in the long term to Australia's electronic and allied industries, resulting from Australian co-operation and involvement in the satellite system, particularly in terms of the ground stations which could virtually be wholly Australian made. 
It is, of course, no use talking about something like this, and ignoring the cost of it all. It has been suggested to me that the current cost of a communication satellite is in the region of $5m. However, if there were any deviations or particular requirements, not included in the standard design, this cost would escalate. The total cost of a worthwhile system would, I believe, be less than $10Om; but I hesitate to mention that figure as I believe that the whole concept should be the subject of a detailed study by a specialist committee appointed by the Government and, of course, the economics of the proposal would be one of the main areas of concern. Whilst saying this, I strongly believe that a domestic communication satellite system does have enormous potential benefits for Australia. There are systems available which can be designed to an individual country's specifications, launched into orbit and maintained for the purchasing nation. 
I believe that there is a real need  :o  determine the value of such a system for Australia, keeping in mind that potential users - there is an enormous range of them - and industry need a communication satellite policy to guide their planning. I feel that the best way to go about acquiring information on the whole subject is to set up a national study by a specialist group to provide the Government with facts and guidance on which it can make its policy decision. I believe that this should be initiated as soon as possible so that interested government departments can plan properly against a known timetable, development and research where required can be started, and Australian industry can be involved, trained and equipped. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 - Mr Speaker, I should like to point out that when that great overseas entertainer, Liberace. was in Sydney he wrote me a letter that I never received in this House. 
I preface my question by stating that  Mr John  Kinsela,  a constituent of mine, captain of the- Australian wrestling team at the Munich Olympic Games and a representative of Australia at  the 1968 Mexico Olympic Games, also the holder of the Queen's Scout Award, the Duke of Edinburgh Gold Award, a leader in Rotary Youth and a Vietnam veteran of 1970-71, used his savings as a deposit on a small oar of which he was owner-driver for All Purpose Messengers. John, a part Aborigine, is one of a big family that he helps to support and also has a wife and 9-weeks old baby living with his mother and family, but owing to John's being in Munich his wife, child, mother and younger members of the family are now in straitened circumstances. I ask the Minister for Social Services whether there is any way in which his Department can assist to alleviate their distress. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Is leave granted? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
by leave- The House will recall that a few months ago I brought before the notice of the House and the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  the case of a blind girl. At that time I was approached by a lady who used to go to the same church as the blind girl, and she told me the circumstances of the case. I said to her: 'I will need some sort of correspondence'. I always insist on getting a letter about a matter that someone raises because I think it is the correct way to deal with these matters. I mention that in passing because about 10 days ago I received a telephone call from  Mr Ray  Ellis, who is a very reputable citizen who lives in Balmain. He has been in the Scout movement for the last 27 years.  Mr Ellis  informed me of the circumstances surrounding one of Australia's representatives at the Munich Olympic Games,  Mr John  Kinsela, who is a member of a big family and also has a wife and child to support, and said that when he went to the Games the family became destitute. I said: 'This is a rather strange request. I should certainly like something in writing because in my own opinion I do not think that a request has ever been made by any other member for assistance for the wife and child and also family of any person who has been selected to go to the Olympic Games'. As a consequence I received the following letter, signed by the mother of John Kinsela and dated 6th August: 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The matter which I wish to raise tonight is administered by the Department of the Interior. I telephoned the office of the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  and told him that 1 intended to mention a matter which was administered by his office. However, I know that he has nothing to do with actually implementing this privilege. I am very pleased to see that the Minister has come into the House. I also telephoned the Assistant Minister assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Dobie)  but I understand that he is away ill. Naturally he cannot be here to relate my remarks to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  The matter which 1 wish to raise in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House pertains to the conditions necessary to qualify for a life gold pass and travel privileges as applicable to ministers,  Mr Speaker  and the  President  of the Senate as distinct from those for private members and senators upon retirement from parliamentary service. 
Firstly, I make it perfectly clear that in speaking on this matter I am not doing so to further my own personal interest because, having served in 7 Parliaments, I already qualify for this privilege. Let us examine the position. Ministers,  Mr Speaker  or the  President  have to serve in their respective capacities for a period of only 3 years to qualify whereas a private member or senator is required to serve for 20 years or in 7 Parliaments. 
This system of qualification is outrageously unfair and unjust, as I shall proceed to demonstrate. My friend and colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  is retiring at the conclusion of this Parliament, having served for a period of 17 years but only for 6 Parliaments. Yet despite his conscientious, diligent and sincere representation on behalf of his constituents and the Opposition Labor Party, he fails to qualify for the life gold pass and travel privileges. In addition I am reliably informed that, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan),  having lost his preselection due to the machinations of certain members of the Liberal Party, intends to contest the forthcoming election as an independent. But should he be unsuccessful he, like the honourable member for Gellibrand, with 17 years service during 6 Parliaments, also misses out. 
Let me contrast this position with that of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock).  I hasten to add that it is not my intention to be personal on this matter, but I find it essential to use such comparisons in making my point. The Minister for Labour and National Service has served in the Parliament for 6 years in 2 Parliaments. Yet, because he has served as a Minister for a period of 3 years, he is already qualified for the privileges in question. The Minister for External Territories, having served for a period of  6i  years in 3 Parliaments and as a Minister for 3 years, is also qualified. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  although having served in only 3 Parliaments, is qualified. The honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes),  as all are aware, is retiring at the conclusion of this Parliament, having served in 5 Parliaments and for 14 years but, having previously served as a Minister for a period exceeding 3 years, he also qualifies. 
It is true  -  I wish to be quite frank on this matter - that the period for qualification for a private member or senator was once 25 years. However, because of representations from Government and Opposition members and senators, the former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, made the adjustments which apply today. It can.not be denied that Ministers,  Mr Speaker  and  Mr President  are treated very generously in this particular privilege whilst private members and senators are treated with utmost disdain. 
I ask all honourable members in considering my remarks to bear in mind that Ministers,  Mr Speaker  and  Mr President  are paid a salary and allowance commensurate with their office. I shall cite some of the instances. The Prime Minister receives a parliamentary salary of $9,500 plus a tax free electoral allowance of $2,750, a Prime Ministerial salary of office of $21,250,  a  Canberra tax free living allowance of $10,300 and a tax free travelling allowance of $42 a day when away from his stipulated residence. The Deputy Prime Minister receives the $9,500 parliamentary salary plus a tax free electoral allowance of $3,350. In addition his office carries a salary of $12,500, a tax free Canberra allowance of $4,600 and $36 a day travelling away from home allowance. Naturally the travelling away from home allowance does not apply to Ministers when in Canberra. Those costs are covered by the Canberra allowance. 
The Treasurer receives emoluments similar to those paid to the  Deputy  Prime Minister, excepting his salary of office is $12,250- $250 less. Senior Ministers and the Leader of the Opposition receive parliamentary salaries of $9,500 plus tax free electoral allowances of $2,750 to $3,350 according to whether they represent an urban or country electorate, a salary of office of $10,500, a tax free Canberra allowance of $4,600 and a $36 a day travelling away from home allowance, which also is tax free. Other Ministers, in addition to receiving the parliamentary salary and electoral allowance, receive an office salary of $7,500, a tax free Canberra allowance of $4,000 and a tax free travelling away from home allowance of $33 a day. There are other comparisons that I could make in regard to  Mr Speaker, Mr President,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and others which I shall not go into. 
I have spoken to private members of the Liberal Party, the Country Party, my own Party and the Democratic Labor Party, and not one has disagreed with my contention that the distinction between the qualifications necessary for a Minister and the qualifications for private members and senators is discriminatory to the point of being ludicrous. In other words, the unanimous opinion of all whom I consulted is that the Ministers certainly know how to look after themselves. I am informed that representations were made to the Prime Minister to grant these privileges to the honourable member for Gellibrand and possibly the honourable member for McMillan, should he be unsuccessful in the election. But the Prime Minister refused, much to his discredit, and this unworthy deed should be condemned by all. 
I put to the House an alternative proposal for the qualification of a private member or senator. This I believe to be much fairer to everyone concerned, and it would be inconceivable to me that any Minister would object to this proposal. My proposal is one year's use of a gold pass and travel privileges for each year of service with a 9-year minimum term for qualification. I do not think that any Minister in the House could say that what I have said tonight is not true with regard to discrimination between Ministers and private members and senators. I reiterate that I am not speaking on my own behalf because, having served in 7 Parliaments, I am already entitled to those privileges about which have been talking tonight. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, as a member of the Australian Labor Party- 
He has distinctly told an untruth. 
 I shall not until such time as he admits that he has told a deliberate lie. The matter was discharged- 
I will not withdraw that remark. He has told a deliberate lie. 
The matter was discharged and he knows it 
Well, I withdraw it. Now, let him explain the situation. 
Friday, 25 August 1972 
The honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  endeavoured to cast by aspersion some very serious charges against the Australian Labor Party and some of its members. At various times the honourable member reminds me a great deal of Lady Chatterley's gamekeeper. 'He is always on the spot when there is dirty work to be done'. The honourable member did not speak one word about his electorate despite the fact that, according to the last census, there has been a decline of 10 per cent in the population of his electorate. The honourable member for Ballaarat also did not mention one word about unemployment, despite the fact that there is a serious unemployment problem in his electorate. I am led to believe by reports from my fellow members that he has made a speech in the House only 3 times in the last 2 years - one to present a report, another when speaking on the Parliamentary Counsel Bill 1970 and the speech which he has just made. The honourable member o;d not mention one word about the Budget. Tn regard to the old communist bogy that has been kicked about for many, many years the fact is, of course, that there has not been one communist guilty of subversion in Australia since this Government assumed office in 1949. If there has been the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has certainly not been doing its job and should be sacked. Not one person has been found guilty or even bean charged in relation to subversive activities in Australia since 1949. 
In addition, it is quite obvious from past experiences that many Government supporters seem to assume that a Labor Opposition member is guilty by association. Just let me explain that in detail. I can recall the occasion, for example, when Jim Healy, a leading communist in Australia and Secretary of the Australian Waterside Workers' Federation, used to come to Canberra and converse with  Mr Holt,  who was then the Minister for Labour and National Service, about matters pertaining to the waterfront.  Mr Holt  would take  Mr Healy  to lunch or dinner. Similarly  Mr Opperman  used to take  Mr Elliott,  Secretary of the Seamen's Union of Australia and a noted communist, to lunch. Of course, if I were seen having lunch with  Mr Healy  or  Mr Elliott  I would be a communist. Members of the Opposition knew that the daughter of  Senator McCallum,  a Liberal senator for many years but later lost his pre-selection, who was a very close friend, incidentally, of the present Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  was a leading communist in New South Wales. We knew also that she was selected on many occasions as the leading Communist Party candidate in Senate elections. We knew that  Mrs Curthoys  was  Senator McCallum's  daughter. However, we did not say anything about it here because we know that a daughter has every right to differ from her father - just as brothers differ - in regard to politics. But just imagine if the daughter of a Labor senator had been No. I on the Communist Party ticket. What would the reaction have been of those on the other side of the House to such a situation? Also I can recall facts about the communist bogy being rolled out. 
I was rather amused to see the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  complaining about the news media and the way they are affecting the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  But do these men not recall what happened to Ben Chifley when people from over the other side of the House by malicious, filthy innuendoes said that he was a fellow traveller and pro-communist? They said these things even though half of them were not fit to clean his boots. Of course, that sort of thing went over well. The Communist Party bogy was introduced by honourable members opposite because they had to win the election. The same thing happened to  Dr Evatt  and to Arthur Calwell. When the newspapers - not the Opposition - do this to the present PrimeMinister supporters of the Government squeal like stuck pigs about what is happening to their Prime Minister. Little do they know, of course, what happened to Labor leaders on this side of the House, particularly  Mr Chifley  who was one of the most revered Prime Ministers in the history of Australia. This communist bogy is so much poppycock. 
Although the honourable member for Ballaarat refrained from doing so, I want to speak a little about the Budget. I thought that before doing so I was duty bound to answer some of the innuendoes which the honourable member for Ballaarat cast against my colleagues of the Australian Labor Party. Although this Budget provides some increases in social service benefits it does not meet the requirements of those whose only income is the pension, bearing in mind that a considerable major portion of age and invalid pensioners are in this category. My colleagues and I have argued on numerous occasions that the pensioner, instead of being treated as a human being possessing pride and dignity, is being treated as a political football by a Government trying to bribe voters before this election. The Labor Party Opposition believes and recognises the Original Old Age and Invalid Pensioners' Association as being the true voice of the pensioners. We do so because it is a diligent organisation. Above all it is non-political. In addition its claims are reasonable and just. It proposes that the single pension rate should be the equivalent of 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings. This is a goal which I sincerely hope and trust will be attained in the very near future. However, in the meantime the Labor Party policy provides that the pension should equal 25 per cent of the average weekly male earnings which at the moment approximates $96 a week. 
This, in effect, would bring the pension to $24 a week or S4 in excess of the amount provided in this Budget. Such a system would mean automatic adjustments in each Budget according to increased costs of living which surely occur each financial year. 
The wage and salary earners have access to arbitration and conciliation tribunals and quite rightly so. In contrast, the pensioner has been at the complete mercy of successive Liberal-Country Party coalitions which have determined the rate of pension. The sorry plight of many pensioners struggling to exist on the totally inadequate rate of pension is indeed a blot on our society. There is absolutely no guarantee that the pensioners will receive an increase in the 1973 Budget to keep pace with rising living costs. This assumption is based on the concept that by some mischance this Government will be returned at the forthcoming election. However, there is little likelihood of that happening because the people of Australia are sick and tired of this inept and haphazard Government. Many of us have vivid recollections of the grandiose, glittering vote-catching promises made in 1949 by the Menzies-Fadden coalition, the first and foremost of which was: 'We'll put value back into the pound'. That promise proved to be a mass of hot air. A promise was made to set up a committee to inquire into the abolition of the means test. That promise was never kept. 
In addition a solemn vow was given that the value of all social service benefits would be maintained. Let us examine the outcome of this promise. Legislation was enacted in 1950 to provide endowment of 50c for the first child. It still stands at 50c despite 22 years of spiralling inflation encouraged and condoned by this Government and its predecessors. The endowment of $1 for the second child has remained unaltered for 24 years. The maternity allowance has been unaltered for about 29 years and the funeral benefit for single pensioners of $20 has been unchanged for 29 years. 
Let me give a few illustrations of the manner in which the purchasing power of money has been eroded. In 1949-50 50c would buy 2 lb or more of butter. Today butter costs 58c a lb. The price of bread, milk, fruit, vegetables, groceries, shoes and clothes has more than doubled. The tram fare from Botany to Circular Quay in 1949-50 was 5c. The same journey today by public transport costs 35c. The cost of bringing a baby into this world has increased several-fold, yet nothing has been done to increase the maternity allowance and rectify that injustice. The perennial struggle of the mass of the pensioners, who are trying to exist on inadequate pensions far below the described poverty line, is indeed shameful. The blame must be sheeted home to the Liberal-Country Party Government, and also to the New South Wales Liberal-Country Party coalition because of its relaxation of the Landlord and Tenant Act which resulted in outrageously high rentals for substandard dwellings and rooms in lodging houses. Some pensioners in my electorate are paying up to $12 a week for a dingy room with little or no facilities. 
I deal now with a very important aspect of Australia's future, namely, the takeover of our mineral resources, industries and even large tracts of our Australian territory. The ex-Deputy Prime Minister and Leader of the Country Party,  Sir John  McEwen, described the position correctly and accurately when he said that we were selling a bit of the farm each day and that Australia was fast becoming a quarry for overseas interests.  Mr Vine-Hall,  the notable liberal from South Australia, said that the Commonwealth Government was selling Australia to the highest bidder. In 1970-71 the total amount of capital inflow into Australia was $l,900m, which is a staggering figure. As at January 1972, the United States of America had invested $US53,500m in Australia. Britain's investment in Australia was $US52,300m while Japan's investments in Australia totalled $US2,600m. Present indications are that before the end of this decade Japan will own a more sizeable portion of Australia than either the United States or Britain. The Japanese will join in industrial ventures to process raw materials in their country of origin. Many overtures in this regard have already been made in Australia. 
It cannot be denied that the Japanese are most able and astute negotiators when it comes to business deals. For instance, the Japanese pay Australia $10 a ton less than they pay the United States for coal of similar quality. Yet, the Australian Gov ernment sits idly by and allows this to happen. In addition to exercising a major influence on the future of Australia's mineral resources and secondary industries, this must mean that our annual indebtedness to overseas investors by way of dividends will increase rapidly year by year. In such matters the day of reckoning must surely come. This Government is most apathetic and dilatory in searching for new markets for the products of our primary and secondary industries. Conversely we find that the new Prime Minister of Japan,  Mr Tanaka,  the leader of a conservative government, is now making a bold bid for close friendship ties with China. This approach certainly will enhance the prospects of Japanese industry in future diplomatic and trade relations with its near neighbour of 800 million people. 
The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry recently announced that an Australian trade centre will be opened in Moscow. This is a step in the right direction. The Opposition fully supports this venture. But why does Australia not negotiate with China for the purpose of opening up a similar trade centre in Peking for the purpose of cultivating trade relations? China is almost totally an untapped source. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, as you would be aware, Ministers particularly are unrestricted in making statements by leave and in answering questions at question time in the manner in which they choose. If they so wish, they can completely evade giving proper answers and can introduce extraneous matter. In addition, unfounded, unsubstantiated and malicious innuendoes are hurled at the Opposition as a whole without any intention of naming any Opposition member specifically. I recall to your attention the incident which occurred in the House last Thursday morning when the Prime Minister in answer to a question stated that some members of the Opposition actually condone public disorder. Public disorder' is a very fancy way of putting the expression 'public violence'. I took exception to that remark. The Prime Minister finally apologised and withdrew my name from that group. 
The Australian Labor Party abhors violence whether it be in the trade union movement or in the political wing. We  recall that in the 1966 House of Representatives election campaign, the Prime Minister of the day, the late Harold Holt, after addressing a meeting at Rockdale was manhandled as he moved outside to his car. We protested quite vigorously at that and were very sorry that the incident occurred! In addition, an attempt was made at the meeting at Mosman on the life of the then Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell).  The Labor Opposition does not condone violence. We do not encourageit. As a result of what happened last week, last Friday, the Administrative Committee of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party, of which I am honoured to be a member, passed the following resolution: 
The New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party unequivocally condemns the use of the philosophy of violence either against individuals or property. 
We also condemn the divisive policies and cynical attitudes of the Federal and State Liberal Governments on their approach to the question of Lawand Order. 
While these Liberal Governments stand on the sidelines talking 'Law and Order', the Trade Union movement acts to uphold it by fighting these small groups of extremists prepared to use intimidation and violence. 
The New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party fully supports and endorses the unanimous ACTU Executive decision of 22nd August, and the New South Wales Labor Council decision overwhelmingly carried last night--  that is, last Thursday night -  which state: 
The ACTU Executive expresses concern at the reported violence after a mass meeting of striking members of the Plumbers and Gasfitters Union held in Sydney on 21st August. 
We strongly condemn the people who seek to introduce into the affairs of the Trade Union meetings such brutality and violence. 
We declare that such action is not in keeping with the principles and standards as set down by the Australian Trade Union Movement and it is completely un-Australian. 
We believe that such conduct and behaviour must be eliminated, and we call upon all responsible Trade Unionists to resist such violence. 
Particularly, we draw the attention of the Affiliated Unions to this resolution and request that they take action to discipline any member involved in such behaviour. 
Should affiliated unions decline to take such action, State Branches of the ACTU should consider the question of continued affiliation of the offending union.' and- 
This is the resolution of the New South Wales Labor Council of Thursday, 24th August: 
The Labor Council of N.S.W. notes the concern expressed by affiliated unions at the introduction of intimidation and threats of violence into the conduct of Trade Union affairs in this State. 
The Labor Council endorses the stand taken by the Acting Secretary, John Ducker, when faced with this type of intimidation, and in his subsequent public statements declaring the wholehearted opposition of the Trade Union Movement to this type of behaviour on the part of individuals and minority groups. 
The Labor Council notes with approval the resolution of the ACTU Interstate Executive, which also condemns the people who would seek to introduce violence into the affairs of the Trade Union Movement. 
We join with the ACTU in declaring that such action is not in keeping with the principles and standards set down by the Australian trade union movement, and is completely un-Australian. 
While noting that emotions run high in major industrial disputes and things are said and done by workers that would not be done in normal circumstances, and such an emotional outburst was one factor contained in the situation that took place following the Plumbers return to work meeting, the fact remains that violence is becoming a recurrent feature from among an element in the Trade Union Movement. 
We therefore call on all workers to strongly oppose the philosophy of violence and to strongly defend the right of Union officials and the rank and file of all points of view to speak, without subsequently being subjected to abuse, manhandling, violence, or the threat of violence. 
We regard democratic practice in the Trade Union Movement as essential to build the unity of the workers in their struggle for social progress. 
We call upon all affiliated Unions to take appropriate action in order that any instances of violent behaviour at Trade Union meetings are properly, dealt with, and demonstrate to all concerned that the Trade Union Movement, can carry out ils affairs in a responsible way. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
After listening to my colleague the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  it is clear that this is not a matter of what the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  should do. It is a matter of what his duties are and what he should do. It is his duty as Attorney-General to protect every person in Australia against an illegal act and he has certainly not done so in this instance. According to what he has told my colleague the honourable member for Prospect, if this woman likes to get a counsel she could get out of gaol. I think that is a statement that is hardly worthy of any Minister of the Crown. If this kind of thing were to happen when the Labor Party were in government the Attorney-General concerned would not remain in the position of Attorney-General for very long. 
In my electorate of Sydney there are several thousand part-Aborigines. They are unanimous in their verdict, as expressed through the South Sydney Community Aid Centre, to the effect that they were absolutely disgusted, just as I was and so many other people were in the first place, at the removal of the tents or the Aboriginal embassy in the park opposite Parliament House. Action was taken in between sessional periods of Parliament. Why was it not taken in the first place during the last sessional period? Was the Government afraid that some Opposition members might actually take exception to this action and become involved in trying to protect these people? Why did the Government wait until the recess to remove this Aboriginal embassy? That is the question that honourable members opposite will not answer because there is no doubt that action was deliberately taken for the purpose of trying to avoid trouble with Opposition members in regard jo this matter. 
I spoke about the South Sydney Community Aid Centre. This organisation is comprised of well meaning people and it is subsidised by this Government. Two field officers are working for the Aborigines through this organisation. It is comprised of men of religion and well meaning people who are trying to do something not only for the age pensioners and immigrants but also for the part-Aboriginal people who live in my electorate. These people are absolutely disgusted with the Government's action in removing the tents during the last parliamentary recess. One thing is quite obvious: Despite what is happening in the Government ranks, ii would appear that even one Government supporter was disgusted with its action. 1 refer to  Senator Bonner.  He stated quite unequivocally that he was opposed to the removal of the tents. 
In addition, the Minister who is supposed to represent the Aborigines of Australia - the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  - has not spoken in this debate. I presume that in representing the Aborigines of Australia he is looking after their welfare. Why has he not spoken in this debate? Is he afraid of embarrassing his own Party colleagues? Is he afraid that he might get the sack from his position of Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts? Why does he not speak up on behalf of the people he is alleged to represent in this House? He has ample opportunity to say something, whether or not he agrees with the action that was taken. 
I admit that there are regulations that must be adhered to by the public, but in this instance we must recognise the fact that the Aboriginal people have been a downtrodden people for many years. They have not had the educational facilities that we have had over the years. Naturally, when they want to put their case, they think this is the right way in which to do it. They were not doing any harm outside Parliament House. They were not interfering with anybody. They were not causing any disturbance at all. Yet, as I said before, their tents were removed during the last recess. Speaking on behalf of the part- Aborigines who live in the South Sydney area in my electorate of Sydney, I assure honourable members that they are absolutely disgusted with the action of this Government and that they will certainly vote accordingly at the next election. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
CANBERRA.- Federal politicians of both parties grumbled yesterday about poor pay, inadequate offices, lack of staff and the grass roots of the Parliamentary system. 
The article continued: 

 Mr Daly said salaries were too low and the general public could not be blamed for thinking parliamentarians were not 'up to much' if they earned only 'a couple of bob more' than the average. (The salary of a Parliamentary backbencher is $15,200, including an electorate allowance of $3,200). 
As is normal, the article is unsigned. Consequently I rise now to correct what was said in this article. I do so in the interests of all parliamentarians and particularly in the interests of the public. So let me put the record straight. City members of Parliament get a base salary of $9,500 and an electorate allowance of $2,750 making a total of $12,250, compared with the $15,200 referred to in this newspaper article. 
No-one minds proper comment on members' salaries and conditions but the strange thing about the Press of this country - this writer probably is no different - is that the only salaries it criticises are those of the members of this Parliament. Although I am not quibbling about their salaries, I understand that metropolitan members of the Queensland Parliament receive $9,690 and I think that they have just been granted an 11 per cent increase which has been back dated. What does the 'Courier Mail' have to say about that? Every State parliamentarian in Australia, practically without comment from the Courier Mail' or any other newspaper, has had an increase in salary in the last 12 months. There have been increases in New South Wales, South Australia, Victoria, Tasmania, Western Australia and Queensland. I would say that the lowest paid members of Parliament in Australia are the Federal members of Parliament, when people ask for wage restraint, they should point to Federal members of Parliament. It is almost 5 years since the salaries of Federal members of Parliament were increased. So, why do the 'Courier Mail' and the author of this article not give a bit of credit to the Federal parliamentarians who are even bearing the increased costs of newspapers to read this rot that this person writes. This kind of misrepresentation has gone unchallenged for too long and I think that we in this Parliament are entitled to demand that it be corrected. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has just given me a cartoon which appeared in today's 'Courier 
Mail I am sorry it cannot be incorporated in Hansard.  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Contained in the cartoon are the words 'vote 1 for your sitting member'. People are standing around the member of parliament and the caption reads: The kindest thing we could do is to vote him out of his misery'. That cartoon is based on this inaccurate - I would say deliberately inaccurate - article by an unknown reporter. I would go so far as to say that the reporter and the editor of the newspaper should be called before the Privileges Committee of this Parliament to explain why he has denigrated members of Parliament when he could have checked this information as easily - probably more easily than - any other information in the Parliament. 1 do not make that statement idly. This reporter should at least be called upon to apologise to the Parliament and to correct his statement and we should demand that the correction be printed in the same way as the original article. Ail members from both sides of the Parliament could well be affected by this article in the forthcoming election. 
Let us not forget that when newspapers attack the salaries of members of Parliament, they do not attack Liberal or Labor members. They attack every member of the institution. For some strange reason, they believe the only people in any section of society anywhere in Australia who are not entitled to a fair - not an extravagant - remuneration are members of the Federal Parliament. It is time that these people were called to book. In order to bring up to date this insignificant individual who wrote the article and the editor of this newspaper, I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard this public document which sets out the salaries and allowances of Federal members of Parliament. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that a very large proportion of applicants for service in the armed forces are rejected because of failure to meet the educational standard required. Will the Minister consider lowering the standard of the education test? I am informed of one case in which a chap volunteered, failed the education test, then joined the Country Party and later became a member of Parliament. 
In speaking to this section of the estimates I shall confine my remarks principally to trade and industry, paying particular regard to the textile and clothing industries and a section of the motor car industry which are situated in my electorate of Sydney, considered to be one of the most industrialised areas in Australia. Firstly, I should like to make it perfectly clear that I strongly support the principle that every Australian secondary industry should receive the fullest protection possible from competing imports. 1 do so because our secondary and tertiary industries are the only possible means of providing employment for an expanding population and a future migrant intake. In addition, the standard of our industrial amenities, such as long service leave, compulsory annual leave, workers' compensation and hours of work, must be preserved by protecting industry against imports from low wage countries none of which enjoy the benefits which I have mentioned. 
The textile and clothing industries are quite rightly proud of the fact that they are the most decentralised industries in Australia. As a matter of fact they are a major contributing factor to the economy of many country cities and towns. One of Australia's largest textile manufacturers, Bradmill Industries Ltd, is situated in the suburb of Camperdown in my electorate and the equipment and machinery used in its factory are modern and compare favourably with those used in any other country. It is fortunate in having efficient management and highly trained staff and its products are indeed of Al world standard. Yet it would be impossible for this Australian industry to compete with similar industries in low wage countries. In a previous speech which I made in this House some time ago I compared the working conditions, wages and so on that apply in Hong Kong, Taiwan, the Republic of Korea and Singapore and it is not my intention to cover the same ground again. 
But I should like to make this point clear: It would be far better to stabilise this industry on a permanent basis by introducing a quota system for imported textiles which would restrict importation to the amounts imported 5 to 10 years ago. 
Secondly, 1 wish to refer to the motor car manufacturing industry and particularly to Leyland Motors Corporation of Australia Pty Ltd formerly the British Motor Corporation, which is situated in my electorate. This company employs 5,000 people while another 8,000 are employed in tertiary industries. Seventytwo per cent of its employees are settlers from overseas. Strangely it is one of the very few motor car manufacturing companies in Australia which have the right, independent of the parent company in the United Kingdom, to export to any place in the world without consulting the parent company. This great organisation really needs long range protection, it wants to be able to make long range plans so that it can go ahead properly with its organisation. I think it will be appreciated that it is most difficult for such an organisation to lay plans on a 12 months basis or even a 2 years basis without knowing the actual protection it will receive from the Government against cars imported to compete with its own cars. It has just brought out some new cars, namely the Kimberley and the Marina. Both will shortly be 100 per cent Australian made. They are almost wholly manufactured in Australia today. What Leyland requires, as I stated before, is a long range policy to be enunciated by a Government so that it knows what it can do in the next few years. 
I can recall visiting the company's plant about 3 or 4 years ago. At that time it had a lot of money to sink into new equipment for the production of a new motor car, but it was unable to do so because it could not get any long range plans from the Government as to what the Government's intentions were in regard to tariffs. Most people would be aware that Leyland Motors produces a light car that has very severe competition from Japanese cars. Naturally Leyland needs protection, but it needs it on a long term basis. So I ask the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter),  who is at the table, to convey those thoughts to the 
Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  about making some allowance for this long range policy. 
I revert to the textile industry. I recall the Minister for Repatriation, when he was a backbencher, quite rightly putting up a great fight on behalf of the Wangaratta mills. I agree with his viewpoint on this matter. He stated that if the textile industries in Australia were destroyed one would naturally assume that the cheaper goods coming in from the low wage countries would remain at their present price. Nothing is further from the truth, because it is the Australian textile industries that are maintaining competition. If we destroy the Australian industry it does not mean that the price of imports from low wage countries will remain as they are at present. They will immediately jump up to what the prices were for the Australian goods before the Australian industries were destroyed. 
The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  not so long ago put up aa argument for protecting Courtaulds (Australia) Ltd against unfair competition from overseas. As honourable members would be aware, it is engaged in the most decentralised industry in Australia. I believe that it should be incumbent not only on every member who believes in protection but on every member of the Country Party to speak on behalf of the textile industry and the clothing industry, because I think it will be agreed that if it were not for these industries being decentralised there would be a further flow from the country areas to the city areas of people not able to get jobs. I can see that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  is agreeing with every word I am saying in this respect. 
I recall having visited Lismore not so long ago. This is the main centre in the electorate of the  Deputy  Prime Minister. There is a rather large clothing factory in Lismore. I believe that if that clothing factory was to close down because of imports the Minister would be very sorry because Lismore's economy would drop rapidly. As the clothing and textile industries are the greatest decentralised industries in Australia, every member of the Country Party should speak on behalf of these 2 industries and add their weight to the case for their full protection against unfair imports from low wage countries. 
I refer to an article in the Sydney 'Daily Mirror' of Monday, 18th September. The article, which is very brief, is headed 'Soft-sell film to lure the migrants' and is by David Gleeson. It states: 
New South Wales can expect a flood of starry eyed British migrants from the beginning of next year. 
They will come expecting a warm and friendly welcome in  a  prosperous and beautiful land, blessedby natureand man. 
That is the concept of New South Wales given by a new Government-sponsored movie designed to seduce British migrants. 
The 15-minute color film is a joint production of the State Government and the Bank of New South Wales. 
It is the first movie to be used by New South Wales to attract migrants. 
PROPAGANDA 
As an exercise in propaganda the film uses the soft-sell technique, rarely over-stating the case. 
It emphasises wealth, relaxation in the sun, education and opportunity. 
The makers have taken great pains to stress the State's heritage lies mainly in Britain. 
Potential migrants arc told most families have  a  car, New South Wales abounds in unspoiled natural beauty, there is plenty of housing- 
I emphasise 'plenty of housing' - and the education system is just fine. 
It follows a newly-arrived British migrant family who drive about in a late model station wagon viewing the better parts of Sydney. 
Always smiling and enthusiastic, the family is shown settling into home, school and job. 
They go to the beach, the countryside, a poolside barbeque and hit the city night spots. All simply idyllic. 
Because the aim appears to be to brainwash the viewers, it's no surprise the film doesn't show some of the harsher realities in life in New South Wales. 
Its called New Life - New South Wales. 
The picture it presents of life would be novel to many New South Welshmen. 
In many respects the film falsely describes the real position in New South Wales. Let me examine in detail the situation. First of all it emphasises wealth in contradiction of the announced decision of this Government to hold an inquiry into poverty. Estimates made by interested experts in this field state that 1 million Australians are existing below or near the poverty line. Potential migrants are told that there is plenty of housing and that the education system is just fine. Of course, both of those claims are untrue. For example, at present there are 40,000 families on the waiting list for New South Wales Housing Commission homes. It is true that some housing is available if those seeking it are willing to pay $40 or so a week. If any intending migrant is desirous of obtaining a Housing Commission home he should be told that the waiting period is at least 4 years. 
In addition it is stated in the newspaper article that the education system is just fine. This is, of course, not true because in New South Wales the public school and the poorer independent school systems are desperately short of finance with which to provide enough schools and teachers. Every New South Wales member of this House would know that this state of affairs does exist. I would like to emphasise that it would be tragic for any British family to migrate to Australia unless the breadwinner could be guaranteed continuity of employment. It would be most unfair to those people at present unemployed in Australia if migrants were to come here and compete for jobs. Finally I again quote a portion of the article which I consider fairly sums up the position. The article states: 
Because the aim appears to be to brainwash the viewers- 
I emphasise the word 'brainwash' because there is absolutely no truth in the advertisement - 
. it's no surprise that the film doesn't show some of the harsher realities of life in New South Wales. 
It's called New Life- New South Wales. 
The picture it presents of life would be novel to many New South Welshmen. 
I'll say it would, ls it any wonder that British migrant families are returning home when they find that the advertisements for New South Wales which they answer are absolutely false. New South Wales and Australia generally have been painted as idyllic places to which to come. It is said that there is plenty of housing which, of course, is a complete falsehood because, as everyone knows, most housing is available only to those who are very rich. With over 100,000 registered as unemployed, would migrants come here to compete with already unemployed Australians for jobs? 
The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keeffe who just resumed his seat, said that the unemployment position is not as bad as it is painted in the newspapers. Of course, that is completely wrong. In my electorate of Sydney I have people coming in droves to my office every day from the St Vincent de Paul Home and Matthew Talbot Hostel. Many of them come from country areas hoping that they might find employment in Sydney. The St Vincent de Paul Home does a splendid job in providing sustenance and a bed for those people who are coming to my office in droves every day seeking unemployment cheques which in most cases are long overdue. There are job opportunities for people with expertise in various skills and trades but for the unskilled person there are very few job opportunities in Australia at present. It is strange that the New South Wales Government has taken steps over the past few years to prosecute firms for false advertising: now we have this completely false film advertising New South Wales being shown overseas to attract migrants. When the film makers say that housing is in plentiful supply, what do they mean? I have no doubt about the authenticity of this news paper article and I agree with the sentiments expressed by the 'Daily Mirror'. But anyone, particularly a government and a supposedly reputable bank, who advertises overseas that there is plenty of housing available in New South Wales is telling a deliberate untruth as every honourable member in this House knows. We have 40,000 families in New South Wales faced with a 4 year wait before they can get a Housing Commission home. 
Is it any wonder that British migrants are very disturbed when, after being presented with falsehoods, they arrive in Australia only to be disillusioned because they have been conned into coming out here? The comments made in the 'Daily Mirror' article are very good and I congratulate that newspaper for putting this situation before the public. There is no doubt in my mind that the New South Wales LiberalCountry Party Government, supported by the Bank of New South Wales, in ils film has told complete falsehoods. 

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="080131197209210_89_7.jpg"></graphic>

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I want to refer now to what should be the role of the Commonwealth Department of Health. Here we are dealing with the vital subject of public health. As the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said, vehicle exhaust emissions, which would be very much reduced in Australia if everybody switched to liquefied petroleum gas, are very much a public health concern and the emissions from vehicles run on pet.troleum products, particularly the emission of oxide of nitrogen, pose quite a severe health hazard as a respiratory irritant, an irritant of eyes and an important pre-disposing factor in the formation of photochemical smog. Perhaps we can believe that certain Ministers are being subjected to political pressure. I do not know. I would have thought that the role of the Department of Health would have been to keep a brief on this subject and to see that no action was taken as a result of political pressure from the automotive or oil companies which would be detrimental to public health. It is the role of the. Department of Health to stand firm on these matters. The Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has shown itself to be a complete washout. But the Department of Health should move in and say: 'If you make this decision it will be detrimental to public health. We think it should not be done'. This should be done at the insistence of the Minister for Health and it is a great pity that it is not. I do not refer to the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  personally. I know he has been in ill-health and we all wish him well. At least we have an Acting Minister for Health. I believe that the Ministry of Health in this country should do something more than just try to foot the bills of all the country's doctors and should try to do something about protecting the health of the nation. I concur with the honourable member for Reid that the decision taken by the Government to impose an excise on liquefied petroleum gas used in motor vehicles was appalling, and we are very thankful that it has been repealed. 
 I desire to ask the Minister for the Navy a question. Would the Minister give an assurance that sufficient repair work will be allocated to the Garden Island Naval Dockyard and the Cockatoo Island shipbuilding yard to maintain employment and to take up the slack of those unemployed in this industry? The honourable gentleman would be aware that employers and unions associated with this industry are gravely concerned about its future. 
I seek leave to make a statement without any restrictions. 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  raised a point on which I sought clarification. I wrote him a note when he answering a question during question time.  His  answer to the question was abbreviated because of a ruling from the  Speaker.  My question at that time was about the payment of pensions. The Minister said that all new pensioners applying for a pension would be paid the pension from the first pay day after eligibility had been proved. What he said is different from what actually happens. It is not the payment but the entitlement that dates back to the first pay day. 
The Minister did not say that at question time. That is the matter on which I seek clarification. I should like to make it clear that on numerous occasions in this House I have mentioned that people who apply for pensions are to a certain extent being robbed of part of the pensions when they receive their first cheques. For example, the next pension day is Thursday of next week. If anybody applies for the pension on Wednesday or Thursday next week and qualifies for the pension it is granted from next pension day. In other words that pensioner will then get the full fortnight's pension. But if a person applies on Friday week he will miss out on a fortnight's pension. I believe that instead of having to wait a fortnight after application people should have to wait only one week. I know that a demarcation line has to be drawn somewhere for office purposes, but the Department is working under a computerised system at the present time and there should be no problem. 
The illustration I have just given means that if a person applies on Wednesday or Thursday of next week he will get the full pension, but if a person applies on the Friday for a single pension it will cost him $40 for the fortnight. If he happens to be entitled to the supplementary pension it will cost him $48. It will cost a married pensioner couple $69, and if they are entitled to the supplementary pension it will cost them $73 because of a difference of one day in lodging an application. A demarcation line has to be drawn somewhere but a fortnight is too long to wait in these days of automatic data processing when it is quite simple to make payments from week to week instead of from fortnight to fortnight. 
The Minister has just stated that it is now possible under the present means as assessed provision for a married couple to receive up to $103 from a part pension and other income. But that is provisional upon the qualification that they have no more than $839 in the bank. I do not know any person in this House who knows of a married couple of pensionable age in receipt of $90 to $100 a week who would not have more than $839 in the bank. I guarantee that not 500 couples in Australia would qualify for the top amount. But why does the Minister emphasise the top amount all the time? He should tell the people they can only qualify for it if they have less than $839 in the bank and be truthful about the matter. People have come to my office and said: 'But the Minister said this in the House'. They do not understand what the phrase 'means as assessed' means. I have to tell them that they can qualify for this amount only if they have less than $839 in the bank. The Minister in his statement is not being truthful to the people. He should explain the situation fully to the people so that they understand that when he talks about this top amount of $103 he means that people can qualify provided they do not have $839 in the bank. Although I have not backed a winner since Old Rowley won the Melbourne Cup, I am willing to bet that not 500 people in Australia would qualify for this top amount. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
The matter that I wish to raise is related to the Commonwealth owned property at Woolloomooloo, which was originally acquired for the erection of naval offices and stores.  The  plans were scrapped and a new proposal was put forward to erect a Commonwealth office block eventually to accommodate 15,000 public servants. The Public Works Committee in its wisdom rejected the site as unsuitable for diverse reasons, but particularly because it would further add to the almost chaotic traffic problem prevalent in Sydney today. In addition, an office of such a size to accommodate such a huge number of public servants should be erected in a place where the traffic problem is much less acute. I certainly agree with and support the majority decision of the Public Works Committee in arriving at such a considered and sensible finding. As a consequence of this decision a great deal of uncertainty has been created as to what the Commonwealth intends to do with the property. As a result of this uncertainty I, as the honourable member for the electorate which contains Woolloomooloo, circularised every dwelling in and adjacent to the Commonwealth property about a meeting to be held on the corner of Forbes Street and Cathedral Street on Sunday, 8th October, at 10.30 a.m. 
The meeting took place and approximately 200 people attended. The meeting was addressed by myself; my State colleague  Mr Albert  Sloss, M.L.A., the honourable member for King - in which electorate Woolloomooloo is contained - and Alderman Len Devine, leader of the Labor Opposition in the Sydney City Council and a former member of this House for 6 years. The meeting was presided over by  Mr Frank  McDonald, a justice of the peace and a person widely known for his excellent work for the age and invalid pensioners and also the community. In addition,  Mrs Wilkinson,  an official of a progress association, was present. The meeting unanimously resolved: 
That this meeting urgently request the Federal and State governments and the Council of the City of Sydney to immediately commence joint negotiations with the aim of the New South Wales Housing Commission building a medium density housing development, which will contain a percentage of housing for pensioners, on the land owned by the Commonwealth Government and the Council of the City of Sydney in the Woolloomooloo area. 
That those persons who are forced out of their residences, because of this project, be given first priority of obtaining units in the proposed development. 
In addition it was decided to form a committee of residents to press for the views outlined in that resolution. 
It was brought to my notice that the Civic Reform aldermen who control the Sydney City Council had suggested that a park should be built on the Commonwealth property. Such a proposal is unacceptable for several valid reasons. Firstly, the Commonwealth property is only a few minutes walk from the Sydney Domain and Hyde Park, which both possess spacious parklands  and  gardens. Secondly, people are urgently needed as residents in the inner city area. As a result it is necessary to provide accommodation at a reasonable rental for wage and salary earners and pensioners. This provision can be made only by the Housing Commission. Thirdly, many elderly residents of the area concerned have lived there for many years near their friends and relatives. It would be asking too much of them to move them too far away from the city. The Premier of New South Wales, in answer to a question by my colleague Albert Sloss, M.L.A., stated that he would be willing to confer with the Commonwealth on this matter. 1 acquainted the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  of my intention to mention this matter on the adjournment and I thank him for his presence tonight in the House. As there are quite a large number of my colleagues wishing to speak in this adjournment debate I conclude by requesting the Minister to take note of my remarks and to give his earnest consideration to the suggestions put forward by the residents. 
By courtesy of the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  I have been allowed to speak for 3 minutes, which is all I need, because 1 was not listed as a  speaker.  I have been endeavouring to ask a question for the last 7 or 8 days but without success. My question refers to naval building orders which are being placed at the Cockatoo naval dockyard. The answer to a question which I asked of the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  indicated that the Government showed concern about the unemployment position which has arisen in this industry. I appreciate the fact that the Government, like the Opposition, does not intend to use the unemployment issue as a basis for trying to win votes, and that is not my intention in raising this matter today. I know it is not the intention of the Minister for the Navy or any other Minister to use unemployment as a means of getting votes. 
I should like to have something concrete stated by either the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  or the Minister for the Navy in regard to future orders to be placed with the Cockatoo naval dockyard. I think it was mooted in the newspapers in regard to a ship called the 'Protector'. There seems to be some confusion. Certainly the management would like to know, and so would the trade unions, the future of the naval dockyard. 
There have been some retrenchments at the dockyard of both tradesmen aud unskilled people. These are the people whom we must retain in this industry. As the Government has complete control over orders placed with this dockyard it is incumbent upon the Government to ensure that these men are not permanently lost to the industry. I have been asked by the Labor Council of New South Wales to pursue this matter in order to get something definite from the Government in regard to this industry so as relieve the anxiety not only of trade unions involved but also of the management. 
 The electorate of Sydney, which I am honoured to represent in this Parliament, contains Lord Howe Island, a beautiful crescent shaped area of land 7 miles long and one mile wide, located 436 miles north-east of Sydney. For years the Island's main link with New South Wales, the mother State, has been a flying boat service operating from the Rose Bay base in Sydney Harbour. Lord Howe Island is a very popular tourist resort and attracts about 4,000 visitors a year. That is worth about $400,000 a year to the Island's economy. Without the tourists, the 200 or so residents would sink back into an age of subsistence living. Approximately 7 years ago  Mr Ansett,  now  Sir Reginald  Ansett, wrote to the then Prime Minister and to the Premier of New South Wales giving notice that his company intended to withdraw the 2 flying boats from service by June 1970. He said that the 2 Sandringhams were becoming more and more costly to maintain and operate and should be replaced by a regular air to ground service using a runway on the Island. Over a period of 6 or 7 years the Commonwealth and New 
South Wales Governments have been wrangling intermittently over who should pay and the amount each should pay for the airstrip. Apart from the flying boats, Lord Howe Island's only link with the mainland of New South Wales is a ship which calls at intervals of 3 or 4 weeks on a round trip between Sydney and Noumea. There is no wharf, and  whaleboats  bring cargo ashore, weather permitting. 
On Tuesday, 10th October 1972, the Premier of New South Wales, in presenting his Budget for 1972-73, referred to the proposed airstrip for Lord Howe Island. I cite his words. He said: 
Honourable members will recall that in my Loan Speech last year . . . 
That is 1970-71- 
. I announced that the estimated cost of the proposed airport on Lord Howe Island has risen to $1.6m and that the Commonwealth had been asked to contribute three-quarters of this sum, in lieu of its original offer of $750,000. 
The Prime Minister subsequently advised that the Commonwealth was prepared to contribute an amount of Sim towards the project but this was the maximum assistance which could be made available. In the meanwhile, following on the spot investigations by the Department of Public Works, the estimated cost of constructing an airport on the Island as proposed has risen to over $2)m. 
The position has been closely reviewed In the light of these developments and the Government has reluctantly concluded that the expenditure of over Slim from State resources on this project would not be warranted under present circumstances. 
In other words, the State Government does not intend to proceed with the proposal for the construction of the airstrip. After obtaining this information from the New South Wales Budget Papers I enlisted the services of my colleague  Senator Mulvihill  to ask  Senator Cotton,  the Minister for Civil Aviation in another place, a question seeking clarification of the Commonwealth Government's attitude to the statement made by the Premier of New South Wales. 1 quote the question and answer. They read: 

 Senator MULVIHILL I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the prime responsibility of the Commonwealth Government to expand the tourist industry will the Minister consider whether the Commonwealth Government should pay the same ratio towards meeting the costs of the proposed Lord Howe Island airport as was originally promised when the project was first mooted? 

 Senator COTTON I am quite familiar with the Lord Howe Island airport situation. I would be quite happy to get some papers together early next week for the honourable senator to have a look at. It may well be that he is proceeding on the basis of information which is not quite correct and that the situation is not quite what he thinks it is. The Commonwealth Government has been most co-operative in this respect. I think it has been more than reasonable and more than prepared to help. If the honourable senator does' not mind, I will have a talk with him about this matter early next week. 
After making inquiries all this week  Senator Mulvihill  received and passed on to me about 10.20 this evening a letter which he received from  Senator Cotton.  I quote that letter. It reads: 
It will mean that the island will go out of existence as a tourist centre. At present it is one of the most attractive tourist centres in the whole of Australia. Though the population on this island is small, the people are entitled to the same consideration and respect as any other section of the Australian community. I ask the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation in this House, whether, to take this matter further he will pass on my remarks to the Minister for Civil Aviation to see whether something can be done to alleviate this position. 
I seek leave to make a statement. 
I call the honourable member for Newcastle. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In relation to the first of these reports, that relating to the 5 1st series of variations, the House will be well aware of the arrangement whereby the Committee, under paragraph 1 (a) of its resolution of appointment, examines and reports to the House on proposals for modification or variation to the plan of lay-out of the City of Canberra. During the present session, the Committee has presented a number of reports on proposals for variations to the city plan. The report I have just tabled, which is the 51st series of variations to Burley-Griffin's original plan as gazetted in 1925, deals with 12 proposals for variation or modification emanating from the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Interior. The Committee has examined each of these proposals which are described in the report and recommends to the House that lt agree to the variations proposed. I should point out that the plan which accompanies the report refers to a 13th variation. This relates to an earlier proposal already agreed to by the Committee which was inadvertently omitted from the plan accompanying the 50th series of variations already approved by the Committee. 
It would be appropriate at this stage to pay tribute to the officers of the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Interior who are available to assist the Committee when it is performing this very important function of examining proposed variations. The Committee has followed a practice over a number of years of convening for the purposes of receiving a detailed briefing on the technical aspects involved in proposals submitted to the Committee. These sessions provide an opportunity to question the departments in detail and to obtain such further information as it regards as necessary. In particular, some mention should be made of  Mr Westerman  and  Mr Price  of the National Capital Development Commission who are the officers chiefly responsible for briefing the 
Committee, for their co-operativeness and the lucidity of their presentation. 
The second report I have tabled is a report that the Committee is unable to complete its inquiry into 2 matters referred by the Minister for the Interior. The report also makes reference to 3 other matters referred as subjects for inquiry upon which the Committee has completed its deliberations and reported. Currently, the Committee is engaged in a very important inquiry into the proportion of municipal and State-type costs which should be met by the Australian Capital Territory community. Although it has made some progress with this matter, the Committee's inquiry is by no means complete. Secondly, the Committee has had referred to it for inquiry the matter of a statutory authority to administer education in the Australian Capital Territory. Again this is a matter of great importance for the future of the Australian Capital Territory. 
In recommending to the House that the Committee be re-appointed in the next Parliament, we have been mindful of the important work of the Committee during this and previous Parliaments. It is also our considered view that the 2 inquiries currently in progress should be completed and, in order to facilitate this and to enable any future Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory to take advantage of the work already done, we would recommend that the resolution of appointment provide - as does the resolution of the present Committee - that the Committee have power to consider and make use of the minutes of evidence and records of the present Committee relating to those uncompleted inquiries. I commend both reports to the House. 
ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The report I have just tabled is to advise the House that the Committee has been unable to complete its inquiry, and to recommend that a new committee be appointed in the 28th Parliament with the power to use the records of the present Committee in conducting its inquiry. I feel obliged to mention in passing the Report of the Expert Group on Road Safety tabled by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  last week. This is a very extensive outline of the problems of road safety and I expect that the new committee will find both the report and its supporting documents of great assistance. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In examining expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund each year, the Committee seeks to ascertain whether or not the principles relating to the formulation of estimates have been adopted by departments. These principles, which are included in Treasury Direction 16/9, have been set out in chapter 1 of the 141st report which I am tabling today. For many years the Committee has paid particular attention to the estimates and related expenditure of departments. As a poor standard of estimating has wide ramifications, the Committee has concerned itself not only with excess expenditure charged to the Advance to the Treasurer, but also with the over-provision of funds. The Committee has made it clear that such overprovisions are undesirable, misleading and perhaps unfair to other departments whose financial needs might not have been satisfied. 
At the same time, the Committee has emphasised that it does not regard the total expenditure of available funds under a particular appropriation item as an objective to be sought without regard to other important considerations. Indeed, undue emphasis on the need to match expenditure and available funds can give rise to unnecessary and uneconomic expenditure and can result in the distortion of administrative practices. In this regard the Committee has on previous occasions criticised departments that have accelerated payments in order to prevent an appropriation from lapsing. As this and previous reports relating to expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund show, there are explanations for expenditure variations from the estimates which are acceptable to the Committee. In this report, however, the Committee has also found evidence of the need for greater care in the formulation of estimates. 
In addition, misunderstandings between departments, errors arising from misinterpretation of information, clerical errors and administrative delays in the placing of orders have contributed to shortfalls in expenditure and reduced levels of efficiency in administration. The evidence also shows cases where failures have occurred in the observance of Treasury Regulations and Directions. Attention has been drawn to all of these administrative inadequacies where they have arisen. 
In connection with the one hundred and forty-second report the Committee has found it necessary to make observations in relation to 3 matters, the details of which are set out in chapter 3 of the report. One of these matters - the Bellenden Ker project - has caused the Department of the Treasury to comment that the approach suggested by the Committee would be contrary to the principle of estimating which the Committee has endorsed in the past. The principle involved states that each individual estimate in the Budget Estimates should be a realistic assessment of the sum expected to be spent having regard to the information available to the Department at the time of preparation. The Committee recognises that the formulation of estimates is, in large part, a matter of judgment, in which opinions may vary. In view of the information evidently available to the Department of Works when it formulated its estimates for 1969-70, the Committee felt, as a matter of opinion, that in the case of the Bellenden Ker project, the Department might well have deferred its request for funds. It does not appear to the Committee, however, that the difference in view which it holds with the Department of Works on this matter represents an approach by the Committee contrary to the principle of estimating adopted in the past. 
As this is the last occasion during this Parliament on which a report from the Public Accounts Committee will be brought up I should like to take the opportunity of paying a tribute to  Mr David  Reid, the Secretary to the Committee, and to the very strong and hard working staff of this Committee. I should like also to thank the observers who have attended the public hearings of the Committee and who have helped us so much with our work. You know,  Mr 
Deputy Speaker, because you are a member of this Committee, that we are greatly indebted to the observers from the AuditorGeneral's Department, the Department of the Treasury and the Public Service Board. As the Acting Chairman of the Committee I would like also to pay a tribute to my colleagues on this Committee which is an all-Party Committee of the Parliament. I emphasise that it is a Committee which consists not only of members of the House of Representatives but members of the Senate as well. As I have said on previous occasions, the work of the Parliament is like an iceberg; two-thirds of it goes on beneath the surface and this Committee is part of that two-thirds. It is a pleasure to be able to say something in the Parliament about the non-political nature of this work which is undertaken on behalf of the people of this country in relation to public expenditure by Government departments. With those few words I commend the reports to honourable members. 
As it is now past the time provided for the grievance debate, Order of the Day No. 1 will not be called on. 
 I should like to pay my respects to the retiring members, firstly to my own colleague, Arthur Calwell, with whom I have served in the last 17i years in this Parliament for many years of which he was Deputy Leader of the Opposition and also Leader of the Australian Labor Party. I know that Arthur has a very good name. I challenge anyone to say outside that he has a bad name because they would be very much down on their bankbooks if they did. Hee Mclvor, another colleague of mine, has been a very good Labor man as well as a very good friend of mine. Speaking as one back bencher to another, Hee, we do appreciate what you have done for us and what you have done for the Australian Labor Party. You have represented you constituents sincerely and conscientiously. 
Charlie Griffiths is another colleague of mine who is retiring. Charlie has been a friend of mine for many many years since I have been here. On any occasions when there has been an election or by-election up Newcastle way Charlie's home has always been open to any Labor members who went up to Newcastle. On those occasions his wife has always made us very comfortable and we have been welcome at any time. I wish Charlie and his wife, and Hee and his wife, many years of retirement and good health. As to the other side of the House, I served with Alan Hulme on the Public Accounts Committee for several years. I found him to be a man of integrity. He always called a spade a spade and 1 always appreciated his views. I understand that he is going into cattle raising now. He is going from one line of bull into another line of bull. 
That is right. I think that Reg Swartz too is one of the best Ministers for Civil Aviation we have ever had. He is the man who first allowed air hostesses to wear mini-skirts. We appreciated that very much. It is the biggest innovation since falsies were introduced in the late 1920s. At one time many members of the House used to ask for window seats in planes. They all go for aisle seats now, I do not know why. But thanks very much, Reg. We appreciated that from you when you were Minister for Civil Aviation. 
I wish Winton Turnbull, Charlie Adermann and 'Ceb' Barnes many many years of happy retirement and good health. I also wish Tom Hughes the best. Tom Hughes is a genial fellow who has always had a nice 'good morning' to say and a little chat outside in the lobby. I have always appreciated the fact that we are here to represent our parties and I do not carry any grudge outside of the House. I realise that honourable members are expressing their views inside of the House. But outside the House I try to say 'Goodday' and be friends with everybody, as I think we all should be. I can remember when Winton Turnbull was very much embarrassed when some Spanish fruit pickers first came to Australia and picked fruit in the nude. Winton was caught peeping through the bush at them one day. This story about the Spanish fruit pickers appeared in the 'Sunraysia Daily'. But Winton, half your luck  -  I wish I had been with you. 

 Mr Speaker, thank you very much for allowing me the opportunity to say farewell to my friends Arthur Calwell and others. We will meet again on many occasions in the future. To  Mr and Mrs Calwell, Mr and Mrs Griffiths, Mr and Mrs Mclvor  and all of those people on the other side, good luck and good health for the future. 
I wish to express my grateful thanks for my elevation to the Speakership of the House of Representatives.  (Mr Speaker having seated himself in the Chair) 

Members of the Senate and members of the House of Representatives, I wish to express my grateful thanks for the high honour that you have been pleased to confer upon me. 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce-Leader of the Opposition)-  Mr Chairman  the Opposition did not, as you heard me say earlier, put forward a candidate for  Chairman  to oppose you. We did this recognising that there is a need to proceed with the business of this Joint Sitting as rapidly as possible. 
Were it not so, a long period would be taken with the counting of a ballot. I think it would be desirable, and the Opposition fully supports that view unanimously, that we should get on with the business, and I welcome you to the chair. 
I desire to ask the Minister for Transport a question without notice which, incidentally, is not a Dorothy Dix question. I preface nr, question by stating that the regular air service between Lord Howe Island and the mainland ceased last Friday and as a consequence, unless something is done to restore such a regular air service, Lord Howe Island will be destroyed as one of Australia's leading tourist resorts. I ask the Minister: Will he, by leave of the House, make a statement sometime today or tomorrow setting out the Government's attitude to this problem as I believe an answer on this subject during question time would of necessity be far too lengthy? 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence under standing order 64 to raise a matter of a personal nature. I missed the division which occurred before the lunch break. I was attending a reception for certain Filipino officials and I was unaware that a division had been called for. I had spoken to the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  and asked him whether, in case there happened to be a division, he would be agreeable to a mutual pairing and he agreed to that arrangement. I merely wish to point out that I was unaware that there would be a division and that a mutual agreement had been made between the two of us in case one took place. I should like to ask for leave to sit again. Thank you,  Mr Speaker. 
I desire to ask the Minister for Health a question. I preface my question by stating that Australian health regulations permit a maximum lead content of one per cent in paint used on children's bicycles, toys, etc., manufactured in Australia, yet imports in this field have been found to contain up to 8 per cent lead content. Does the Minister consider this ratio of 8 per cent lead content in imports a danger to children? If so, what steps can the Minister take to bring the imports into line with the Australian regulations? 
-I agree entirely with the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in the remarks he has just made about the advantages to be gained by those whose names start with A, B, C, etc. I entirely disagree with the remarks of the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  that there is not much difference between this proposition and the present arrangement. I think the honourable member for Curtin is pulling his own leg, and he knows it only too well. Every newspaper in Australia accepts the fact that there is a donkey vote. Every person associated with every divisional returning office throughout Australia accepts the fact that there is a donkey vote. I shall give some illustrations. I prepared a paper on this. Many years ago as an Opposition member I submitted an amendment. Let me give the Committee some illustrations which I think must carry some weight in regard to the argument which I intend to put. In 1955 in- the electorate of Banks in New South Wales a Communist Party candidate named Clancy who was well known in New South Wales was on top of the ballot paper. Eric Costa, an Australian Labor Party candidate, was No. 2 on the ballot paper. Clancy polled 3,300 votes out of a total of approximately 41 000 formal votes. 
In 1958 when Clancy was not on top of the ballot paper and when approximately 49 000 people voted because of an expanding area he polled 1 700 votes. In my electorate of Watson, which I represented for 14 years, in 1961 a Miss Nappa was the Australian Democratic Labor Party candidate. She was not on top of the ballot paper. On that occasion I was. Incidentally I have been on top only 3 times in 9 elections. Miss Nappa was well known in sections of my electorate in 1961. 
Miss Nappa. She used to belong to the Labor Party. She was well known in the electorate. 
Stop interjecting for a moment. She had workers at the booths. She had manifestos. She had stickers on posts everywhere. She got 1200 votes. In 1963 another DLP candidate was on the top of the ballot paper. He did not put out any bills or manifestos or have any workers, yet he received 2300 votes because his name was on the top of the ballot paper. Anybody who says that there is no advantage in a candidate's name being on the top of the ballot paper is pulling his own leg. That principle is accepted in schools of political science. It is accepted by every newspaper in Australia. It is accepted by every district returning officer in Australia. It is accepted everywhere. Why should a person whose name starts with A have an advantage over a person whose name starts with W, Y or Z? 
If honourable members wish to look at this matter closely they should read the speech of  Mr Abbott.  I am going back prior to World War II when the voting system for the Senate was changed.  Mr Abbott  made a speech on that occasion and suggested that the system for the House of Representatives should be changed to be the same as that for the Senate, but for some unknown reason the system was adopted only for the Senate. Since then, all candidates names on ballot papers for the House of Representatives have been in alphabetical order. As the Minister mentioned, some people have even changed their names to get on the top of the ballot paper. 
In Queensland a candidate submitted his name for the electorate of Mount Gravatt, which was represented by Felix Dittmer before he became a senator. For some unknown reason the candidate pulled out of the election the day after nominations closed and said that he was not a candidate. It was too late to scratch his name off the ballot paper. Despite the fact that he was not contesting the election he polled 150 votes because bis name was on the top of the ballot paper. Yet we have a person saying that there is no advantage in a candidate 's name being on the top of the ballot paper. Of course there is an advantage. Every person in Australia knows that there is an advantage. Why should any person have an advantage over another just because of the alphabetical system? A draw out of the hat should be made, as mentioned by the Minister for Services and Property. 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Is it a fact that certain insurance is considered by insurers to be too large or risky to be insurable under normal profit principles, such as in the case of earthquake or flood? Will the proposed Australian Government Insurance Office be able to offer any insurance to cover such events? 
I address a question to the Minister for Health. He would be aware that many Australians suffering from painful, incurable and terminal diseases are being defrauded of money- in some cases life savings- in paying for faith cures in the Philippines. These faith cures are definitely fakes. Will the Minister issue a statement warning Australian people against these fakers? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether he has received complaints about delays in the processing of claims for medical and hospital benefit refunds from private hospital insurance companies. What is the nature of these delays? If the delays are noticeable, is this further evidence of the inefficient and unsatisfactory nature of the present private health insurance scheme? 

 - Mr Speaker, I direct a question to you. Will you give consideration to establishing a boxing gymnasium on the premises as I understand that once you were a leading amateur boxer? Would you consult with the Minister for Tourism and Recreation in regard to conducting a boxing tournament and offering suitable prizes for members? 
I desire to ask the Prime Minister a question. The honourable gentleman would be aware that the Assistant Secretary of State of the United States of America,  Mr Phillip  Habib, stated that the ANZUS Pact would be honoured by the USA. Would the Prime Minister confirm the Australian Government's attitude to this Pact? 
-Listening to the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  it was interesting to hear that the Opposition is still keeping the old bogey about nationalisation going after so many years. Being a lawyer, the honourable gentleman should know that the Australian Government does not have the power to nationalise a lolly shop. It was proved that section 92 of the Constitution prevents it when attempts were made by Chifley to nationalise the banks. Strange to relate, State government insurance offices which were initiated by Labor governments and maintained by anti-Labor governments, have proved to be quite successful. Every State has the power to nationalise any business conducted within its borders if it wants to do so. The honourable member for Stirling knows that he is basing his argument on a false premise when he talks about nationalisation. He knows that the Australian Government cannot nationalise anything unless a change is made to the Constitution. 
-We cannot do it. Section 92 stopped the nationalisation of the banks. Surely the honourable member should know a little about history. Section 92 provides that trade between the States must be free. It is remarkable that the Bjelke-Petersen Government has never tried to abolish the Queensland State Government Insurance Office. The Liberal and Country Parties have been in office in New South Wales for 10 years, but they have not tried to abolish the New South Wales Government Insurance Office. 
I am talking about one particular industry at the present time. The State governments have kept the State insurance offices going because they have proved a great success. They provide healthy competition for the private insurance company. That is why they have been maintained by Liberal-Country Party governments. The honourable member for Stirling has reintroduced the old bogey of nationalisation, but he does not know what he is talking about. If he is a lawyer, he should know that section 92 prevents nationalisation of industry by the Australian Government. Unless there was a change in the Constitution by way of a referendum we could not nationalise a lolly shop. I repeat that the New South Wales Government, when it introduced the Government Insurance Office, if it so desired could have nationalised everything in New South Wales, if it did not cross the border. The States have the power to nationalise. The Australian Government does not have the power to nationalise. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration a question. Now that the college for training trade unionists will shortly be in operation, will the Minister make available to all trade union organisations a special information brochure setting out the details of this provision for unionists? May I add that I believe that this is the greatest innovation since falsies gave an uplift to women in the late 1 920s. 
Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of Press reports of the criticism by the New South Wales Minister for Housing of the Budget allocations for welfare housing? Is it a fact that New South Wales will receive from the Budget this financial year only $90m for welfare housing? Finally, what is the allocation to New South Wales for welfare housing in the current Budget, and what was the allocation for welfare housing in the last full year of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government? 
I have been requested by my parliamentary colleagues to bring before the notice of the House that the honourable Fred Daly, Minister for Services and Property and Leader of the House, has today served 32 years in Parliament as a member and a Minister, having been elected as a member for Martin, New South Wales, on 21 August 1943. He served as the honourable member for that electorate until 1949 when, due to the enlargement of the Parliament and the redistribution of that year, he became the member for Grayndler, which electorate he has represented for the past 26 years. He served as Party Whip for 6 years, from 1950 to 1956. He was elected to the Opposition Party Executive in 1963 and served in that position continuously until 1972. Following the election in that year, he was chosen as a member of Cabinet and was appointed Minister for Services and Property and Leader of the House. Having served in this House for 20 years and 3 months, I can say with all sincerity that Fred has done more to bring about the standards of services and conditions that are now enjoyed by every member of this House and of the Senate, particularly back bench members, than has any other Minister since Federation. I do not believe that any member of the Parliament would disagree with my opinion. As a matter of fact, honourable members from both sides of the House and the Senate have spoken in laudatory terms of what he has done for them. 
I now wish to say a few words about the gentleman in question. The name 'Fred Daly' is a byword in the electorate of Grayndler, particularly in the suburbs of Newtown, Marrickville and Leichhardt. He is patron of the Newtown Rugby League Football Club and, as we all know, rugby league is the sport of rugged, physically well equipped young men. It has been my pleasure to have known Fred, his gracious wife Teresa, his daughter Margaret and his son Lawrence for many years. I have found Fred always to be a shy, retiring and timid person, lacking any sense of provocation.  His  speeches never invite interjections or retorts of any kind. I am informed that others wish to contribute something on this occasion; so I shall curtail my remarks. I conclude by congratulating Fred on 3 points: Firstly, his sincerity, diligence and conscientious work for the Australian Labor Party in a lifetime of dedication to a cause in which he believes; secondly, his 32 years of splendid service to the Parliament and the Australian community; and, thirdly I emphasise this again- his outstanding achievements which have provided the highest standard of conditions and amenities ever enjoyed by members and senators. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, by stating that a news editor on television channel 9 in Sydney last night, when reporting on events in Timor after a visit to that country on a trawler, confessed that although he has been resident in Australia for 14 years he is not a naturalised Australian citizen. I ask: Was the normal process of law followed by this person in obtaining a reentry visa or permit after visiting another country? 
Is the Minister representing the Special Minister of State aware of a report that the proposed acquisition of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands at this stage would represent an affront to the Senate Standing. Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which has yet to report on its inquiry into the administration of the island? Is this a fact? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I claim to have been misreported in a booklet entitled 'A Biographical Register of Commonwealth Parliament 1901-1972 ' by Joan Ryden. The booklet states that I am an RC. I am not an RC. I am an unfinancial Anglican. 
Is the Treasurer aware of reports that taxation increases in the New South Wales Government Budget are due to the fiscal policies of this Government? Will he inform the House as to the amount of grants channelled to the New South Wales Government this year as compared with grants from previous governments? 
It was very thoughtful of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  to refer to the memory of the late Cyril Chambers. I was honoured to know Cyril from the time I was elected to this place in May 1955.I formed a very firm friendship with Cyril for the 3 years or so he was in Parliament after that and, of course, during the time he was employed in the Commonwealth Public Service later. I had many opportunities in 20 years of gauging Cyril's personality. The honourable member for Boothby has already described his personality. I endorse what he said by further saying that I do not think I have ever known a friendlier chap in this House since I first became a member. 
Cyril Chambers was Minister for the Army during the turbulent days of 1949 when the big coal strike was on, . involving the Miners Federation, which was then controlled by the Communist Party. Just before the 1949 general election, as most of the elderly members would recall and as elderly persons outside would recall, Cyril Chambers had the unenviable task of putting the Army into the mines at the behest of the Government, which I fully supported as a member of the Australian Labor Party at the time. That was a worrying period for Cyril, but he carried out his duties as he should have done and without any apologies to anyone. 
There was a great affinity between several of us. I was very pleased to see that my great friends, Ted Peters and Joe Clark, also attended the funeral yesterday. They sent word to me that they had attended. It is a fact that after serving here for so many years one builds up a friendship. As the honourable member for Boothby said, he is a member of the Liberal Party and Cyril was a member of the Labor Party. One thing you learn in this House is that all of your friends are not on one side of the House. 
I add my endorsement to the remarks of the honourable member for Boothby. He has covered the situation quite well. I also extend my sincere sympathy to Cyril Chamber's widow and hope that she will accept my hearfelt sympathy on her great loss, Cyril Chambers. 
-I ask the Minister for Education: What is the position of non-government schools under the proposals of the Schools Commission for 1976? How do the proposed grants compare with those made by the States at the secondary level? 
